ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "About the monographic argument, the model of the prison we need in the Araban, Bizka, and the gym." The group's turn to make a suggestion. The Supreme Court, represented by the EH Group, has the word of the Lady to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u1	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President, for giving me your word. And good day to all the members of the guests. Thank you for coming here, and we hope today's debate is also expendable for you, and then we can work around everything you hear here and put ideas and things in common. We begin our discussion with a monographicographic, and the first thing we have to talk about is why we brought this debate here and today: because it's the day we got it today. And why? Well, because EH Collector wants to encourage discussions about this, we think we ought not only to do it here, but because we have to do it in society and in society, and to-day we have brought this here. Why do we think that? Because we think that what's done here and what's done outside may be helpful, or it may be possible to work around the transfer, and with more force, we'll go with more protection when we get it, or when we have to make this negotiation. And with this discussion today, I think we have to answer some questions. What sort of system will come and be ours; what abilities we give, and what not; what choice have we of making another pattern, and how it ought to be; what are the great wants, what are the hopes and the answers of the victims of crimes; and, moreover, it is the most important thing to do, what to do, and how to do, and how to do, and how to do, and how to be treated in each prison, and how all prisoners are punished. The intention of collecting the Basque People is to make up and design prison policy on the way, that is to change it. We don't want them here at all, and we have to repeat it here today to do what's happening here. If we ask this, it is plain, when it is done, that this transfer is to make another policy; to do the same, no; and to make alterations, and to make them, as it were, men and their rights. First, it is certain that we must make a small legal position to see why and how this can be done, and rather than tell what is going on, that we have at this moment to remark that there are certain things which are connected with the prison or with the imprisonment, or with the arrangement of a transfer or a treaty, and that we have health, we have education here, and there are many things we have in it that are doing. But what we don't have is the most important thing. According to what the Common-wealth of Guernica says, Article 10.14: "The Public Administration of Euscal has a exclusive jurisdiction," and it is expressly stated for what purpose: "He has a right to prison and reform the organization, the regime, and the organization of the houses in society." And, moreover, in regard to what is said by Article 12, this state allows Euskal Autonomy to be able to make up the legislature of Cartzels. We've missed other things, and that's not yet. But that's not what we leave on either side or in a corner. And what are our want of jurisdiction, which we see absolutely necessary? Well, there's a chance of making laws, of the courts, of the guard's court. All these things, though they come and carry out the transfer, will remain in the jurisdiction of the state. That's our goal, and that's what we're trying to accomplish. But that's not the basis of today's debate. That must be done elsewhere, and the dispute is made. Here, a little while ago, about Judicial Power, there was a dispute, but I must say, because we do not abandon it at all, and make no room for it, when we have a peculiar Common-wealth, we must have a Judicial Power, and an opportunity of making laws. The greatest inconvenience has hitherto been in the Spanish State in managing prisons. For many reasons, when asked or proposed, we have always refused. It's true that things have changed at this moment, and there's an explosion. And in this joint, the prison transfer deal, the discussion, or whatever it is, will be 2020. We don't know what happened. It was a pity for us not to put this between preference, not to put it on the list, even if it was very important and so insist on the last part of the list. But that's it, and that's what we mean. What precedents do they have? What did the Basque People do? And I say plainly the Basque People assembled: We prepared the proposal for election in 2016, and we got this in the program. And I'm not gonna repeat it because it's public, and there it is. Justiziako salilburuari, etorri denean batzordeetare edo inkluso plento-aretoan, hainbat biderrez galdetu diogo transferentizia honori buruz, éta beti weretitun digu presto zegoela eta presentzen ari zela eskumen hau lortzeko eta, huta ére, etorriz gero, kudeatzeko. And we find in their interventions, plans, programs and even, many times – I have to say – a bet on the transfer, although the truth is that we have never seen concreteness; we have never seen that concretely. And we have also found that even when the Socialist Party government came to rule in the Spanish state, it did not make any movement to tell us what it was going to do. But, well, it's true that his disposition was there. Some social and social operators, seeing what work and what sort of commitment there was in the street to bring this debate forward, presented the other proposal like the Basque People, and that we planned on that other proposal was to make a piece of ponity for the purpose of talking about it, and also to give it a priority in the Justice Committee and carry it forward. PNV voted against him, but PSOE voted against him, and PP. And we couldn't do that power. Nevertheless, together with the Podemos, we must thank Mr. Uria for all the work we've done with us, and they've been to the Justice Committee. Even before that, we went to Catalonia to see what was going on there and what they were planning. What we have to say is that there have been others after us who have spoken to the authorities of Catalonia to find out what was done and what was the type. And, too, we went to the penitentiary, where we visited. Why did we go there? Well, that's what it's going to be when we have the management and jurisdiction of a place in the autonomical community to carry these things forward, and we wanted to see what was going on out of the first hand. In all this which we have put forward and which we have done, I must note that we have had a very rich, very interesting debate, with very good contributions from all the people who have attended and whom we want to thank, from here, for their availability and for having been there. And I also have to say that, in the end, we have involved all the parliamentary groups in this debate and that this allows us to draw a number of conclusions. I would also like to point out that it seems – I hope that the Counsellor will also tell us – that the Department of Justice has some study, has some work or has some proposal. Actually, I'm looking forward to what you have to tell us, to see, after so much work, what conclusions the counselor has come to. And make it clear to the Counsellor that, if they agree with what we are proposing, we are not going to have any problem in saying that what is being proposed is appropriate and correct in this change in prison policy that we want to do. There is one thing I want to make clear: the prison institution has suffered from its origins a permanent crisis as an institution, showing palmarious failures in achieving the objective to which it is supposed to be directed, which is reintegration, and also in safeguarding the fundamental rights of persons in prison. The prison has become a decriminalized space, in which, with total and absolute opacity, things of all kinds can be done. And to make an appropriate design of this situation, we need to do an analysis, albeit very brief, of the data we have on prisons, on how they are structured, to detect the main shortcomings and see the main needs. It is true that we are not going to explain everything; we are going to focus a little bit on the data we have from the Autonomous Community and from Euskal Herria: The prison rate in Euskal Herria – i.e. the people who are in prison – is 1,322 prisoners in the autonomous community, and 285 in Navarre. In the autonomous community, there are 61 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants; 44 in Nafarroa. It is important, because the index is much lower than that of the Spanish State. Of these, a small correction must be made, because there are some prisoners here, with social roots here, who are serving sentences in the state and many in the state who, for various reasons, even of prison classification, are serving sentences here. If we do a translation of the two things, we would have more or less the same prison situation; that is, there are almost 700 prisoners who could be outside and so many others who would have to come. The rate is very similar to that in Europe; it is quite equal to one of the most progressive countries, Denmark; it is worse than that in Sweden, but it is better than that in Britain. And it is also necessary to compare crime and the prison population, and the VAC has the lowest of its surroundings. There are many factors that may have to do with this situation; I believe that many of them have to do with the high police ratios that have existed in the autonomous community, taking into account different situations, but also, and I have to say this because we have to do things objectively and I understand this, with a system of social protection, services, preventive measures and action in many areas, which makes this rate lower. The recidivism is small; it is true that it is still 6 %, but it is also true, and so we were told by the Justice Councillor of the Catalan Generalitat when he came – Councillor Carles Mundó – that this recidivism was greater when the penalty had been fully met than when other measures had been proposed. Of the 1,322 prisoners in prison, 173 are remand prisoners and 1,149 are sentenced; there are 30 per cent foreigners, with very complex realities of emigration, uprooting, misunderstanding; there are 126 women, 69 in a closed regime, 9.57 per cent of the total. And in relation to the prisons, we have Basauri and Martutene with specific problems, totally obsolete, with serious problems in relation to infrastructure. There are mothers with children under three years of age separated from them or transferred to Spanish State prisons. There are 5% very old people, and 20% young people between the ages of 18 and 25. We believe that people with large convictions deserve special attention, that they are people who have long-term convictions and who are in jail and who then do not know or want to go out. And there is also a question that we want to put on the table because it is important: 60% of all these people are perpetrators of crimes that do not generate much social alarm (small thefts, thefts or issues of this category...). These are some data that we believe we need to put on the table, because they are the ones that we have to properly interpret to design a proper, mature prison policy that prefers to look into the eyes of the prison population rather than put them in prisons, in a kind of human container, in which we hide them, as if we had them in the backyard of our houses, covered, hidden from the sight of the citizens; a policy that treats prisoners with dignity, in order to recover them before abandoning them, a policy in terms of the rights of these people. We wish to determine the end of the policy of prison; this is what we wish to define: To prepare a list of the best kinds of priorities and treatments, we see that investments are indispensable and we must also prepare the means. But what we think is, to do this right, that principles and rights must be received when we design a different policy. Principles and rights: "El restito a los derechos humans tibine que ser el objectivo." The abolitionist vision of prison – which we have also heard in some of the appearances and which is also a social debate – we understand that it can be a way out, but we also see that in the society in which we are this debate is far removed from what people are proposing. In any case, we have inspiring principles to make principles and rights. And which ones have we chosen? We have been inspired by Mandela's rules—so-called—that are, in his real name, the United Nations Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners. We have also been inspired by the resolutions of the Council of Europe. EH Bildu advocates – taking into account all these issues – for the minimal intervention of criminal law, for the most rapid and effective resocialisation of people, for respect for human rights, combining the rights of victims and reparation. We must never identify, from our point of view, criminal execution with imprisonment. And that is why we believe that important and alternative measures should be proposed to the prison sentence. Horregatik, Eta ikusten dugulako Statu spainolak daukan systemren aurrean hau ez dagoela horrela jasota, EH Bilduk zygor- Eta spectexe-politikaren gertuko erredua diseinatu nahi du, alteratiboa, gizarte modern age solidarity batekin lotuta, prisoner eskubideak erespectatzen dituena. And as we are speaking of the rights of prisoners, I shall endeavour to make it appear, in a short manner, that I think it important also to mark the principal principles. And first of all, what we think is that we must be very strict about the rights of prisoners. And, on the one hand, what will be the first? The right to live, and the right to the physical, psychic, and moral whole of the person. What does that mean? That torture, any strange practice, any mockery, and bad treatment should be removed. We claim the right to a family life. What does that mean? That they must be in the right relationship with the family, that we must try to stay together with the families inside, that we must not separate or separate the mothers and children, or fathers and children. The right to be the right to personal culture, to be a ideological freedom, to have freedom of culture, freedom of expression, freedom of association, and even the right of education, of health, of social protection, of dwelling, and, what is important to us, and what we want to remark is one thing: the right to a paid job. But when they come out of it, a worthy work, all the benefits they derive from Social Security and such settlements, that is, when they come out, to have opportunities for pensions and retirement. And then we plan some of the principles that are important to keep our work going. It is important to us, for us, that the principle of dignity, the principle of nationality, of land and localization, the principle of legality, the right to participate, the principle of public service, the principle of socialization, the principle of socialization, the principle of transparency, and the accidental views of punishment-that is, a system which has relation to the victim in another way. All of this we have made into a series of measures, that the truth is that we have come up with a few. And it will be very difficult for me in what I have time to explain all, but then we will have more opportunities to point out what measures we have put forward. But I do want to highlight some of them, because of the importance we give them and why we think they have to do with that different and own design. And the measures corresponding to the prisoners, together with their jurisdiction, must be brought to prisons in the Basque Country. We've got to get them all to the Basque Country. Not just a few, not everyone who's serving a sentence. And for that, what do we plan on it, and how do we see that this is possible? Through a Decree. We saw that it was possible in Katalunia, and that it was connected with it and the family. That's possible here, too. It's torture and the preventive treatment mechanism. Respect for the prisoner's privacy and privacy. And that we must make a strategic plan by respecting the national minority, the ethical, the linguistic, and the different religions. And we propose, too, to create family modules, and what we plan is that there are mixed modules. What for? To heal those relationships. Our chief concern, and for this we have made several questions and proposals, has been connected with isolation, and what we plan is to use as little as possible and to prevent the use and measure of it. Language. Prisoners to be able to speak in two official languages. And the right to unite, i.e. to create associations, and to have a direct intercrossing with the direction, to talk about their own things. We've also been very important to us, and we've considered the peculiar situation of women's rights and women. And we think we have to make a new design because prisons aren't meant for women at this moment, and still less for women and children. And that's where we plan a few special measures for that case. It was Berean, kontuan hartu ditugu funtcionariooak eta pentsatzen duguna da gauza batzuk aldatu behar say it, batha egia da haiek etorriko say the transferentziarekin will beat. Hor pentsatzen dugu plan berzi bat egin behar de la etortzen direnak egokitzeko. The Attorney of Justice of the Generalitat of Catalonia told us that if you want to make a change in the prison model, you also have to change the ways of doing things, and told us that those who come from a particular model have to make a recycling. Well, we raise some of these issues, which we think are important. We also put forward measures in relation to prisons, how they are now and what needs to be changed. And we propose the creation of a 100-seat centre for women and the creation of another 100-seat centre for children between the ages of 18 and 25. Obviously, we do not agree with the use of Zaballa as a macrocarcel and as it is proposed, and we believe that we need to reconsider this. We are taking action on this issue, as well as on Martutene and Basauri, and on CIS. With regard to prison treatment, it seems to us that this is the basis of all that we need to do, because we need to look for the most suitable prison treatment to carry out the path of resocialization, and we think that the location of the prisoners in modules must be reworded, not only on the basis of the prison grades, but with a determination of their profile: the type of crime, the time of conviction, the state of health and the programming of specific services and programmes for them. And there is one issue, which we also have experience in, that has to do with an intense intervention for the progression of the first degree to the second, so that we can be in ordinary prison life, in the most effective way possible. Respect for the right to family life, stay of prisoners in places of origin, and proximity of prisons to these places of origin, with transportation and accessibility. And with regard to the victim, we also propose measures, because of course we are aware that the European institutions are enhancing extra-judicial mechanisms and conflict resolution within the framework of restorative justice. We believe that these measures must also be strengthened, and the victim care service strengthened. But, as I said, we believe that the solution is not prison, but alternative measures to closed sentences. That is why we believe that the reduction in the percentage of the population incarcerated under ordinary conditions must be urgently addressed, which, in our view, could never exceed 60% and the preferred option must be open, at least for 40% of people. So, we think that a strategic agenda is needed to move this challenge forward. And a decree will have to be made to enhance these measures, and measures will have to be put in place to replace the penalties, establishing the necessary conditions for it and how we will evaluate it, and it will be deepened into alternative measures. With regard to the question of work, which I have pointed out earlier, we propose to create an autonomous agency for work and prison benefits, which will order the labour relations of prisoners and which will take into account the calculation of what wages have to be and everything that has to do with social security. And, of course, how many men are responsible in this society, and how many persons are working on it, what we propose is that there is a chance of transparence and association to go directly to prisons, to speak of the state of prisons, to participate and make proposals. We therefore believe that this means establishing powers of supervision and legislative control over the proper functioning of this system, in accordance with those associations and with the follow-up of Parliament's Committee on Justice. Hau da gutxi gorabehera posetzen duguna; hute ere, honori guztiari irtenbidea emateko, ikusten duguna da behar-beharrezkoa da eregelamendu bat Egypt age, hute ere, posetzea hori system baten baitan. And, of course, I will not forget – because, if not, someone will tell me for sure –: budget allocation, money to do all this. We have made a calculation of what is and is needed, and we believe that it is possible to undertake this very big enterprise that we have in our hands and to make our system different, be better, be respectful of people's rights; in short, to make a system different from that we have, that we do not want, and that it is much better for all people in prison. They and they deserve it, but also our society. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u2	Thank you, signor. Passing over to the rest of the teams, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, I'm going to start the intervention on behalf of my group in the same way that I started it when I was asked to create a presentation on this issue, and it's whether, really, in the focus of the concerns, in the foreground of the concerns... of Basque society, there is this matter. I do not say do not worry; I do not say do not have to deal with it; what I say and what I cannot fail to show is my astonishment at the convening of this full monographic plenary, also in plenary – which could have been done in committee; but, not in plenary – to talk about prison policy. Because we believe that the responsibility of this Parliament is to discuss the concerns of the citizens, yes, but giving each of the issues its transcendence, and where and how it is dealt with, because often it reflects that transcendence that each of us gives to the issues. And there are issues that bring the Basque society to its head but which have not deserved a full monographic, nor a request from you, Mrs Goirizelaia. For example, the subject of La Naval, which is true that you have made initiatives; but, of course, no full monographic on this; the subject of concerted education, which brings many parents head-on and which, of course, is at the centre of the concerns of many members of our Basque society and which, as I say, has not, however, been the subject of a full monographic. However, today we come here to talk about a subject, let me tell you this, regardless of whether it concerns us all today, for you it is a partisan and political issue. For EH Bildu, it is a partisan and political theme. Because the background to this question is a political question: it is a question on which you do not put the real problems back at the centre; you called them, when you gave the press conference, which were a priority. I do not know whether in the surveys of Basque society, the situation of the prison population, which is important and which we must deal with, appears to be at the top of the concerns of Basque society. However, it is a concern for you. But, fundamentally, it is a concern of a part of the imprisoned population. Because those who promote this call, who have spoken in addition to victims, continue to despise the victims of terrorism; you continue to deny the recognition of those who suffered and suffered from ETA – and we have seen it again this week –; you continue to act as representatives of a terrorist gang, which was defeated by Basque society, but a terrorist gang that you do not deny, and today we are called here to talk about prison policy, fundamentally, although you have not said it in your first speech, but there is nothing more to see the press conference that Mrs Ugarte and Mr Arzuaga gave and see where their concerns centered, and there is nothing more to read the document and see who are being directed the first concrete steps. You did not manage to make the presentation, as you said, and you asked for the appearances, that is, you have done it through the back door, although you were told that the Basque Government already had an idea of how to do it and that, of course, it was going to listen to the contributions of society, of political groups, but you wanted its leadership – it is true that at that time you shared it with Elkarrekin Podemos – and now you are presenting yourself here, as members of the judiciary, with a document that wants to do the times of a government document, with a series of measures, in which, as I say, the first two concrete measures, therefore, relate to what they refer to. I don't know if you've seen a Spanish movie called Why do you call it love when you mean sex? Well, you guys... I advise you to see it, because Spanish cinema is fun, and that film, in particular, is quite fun. For it could be applied to you, because it has not done so in the first intervention, it has left it latent there, but I am convinced that it will; but, of course, in your documents you are much clearer. They say that they all have to be brought in, that there has to be a decree of all prisoners, when they are thinking of those convicted of terrorism, but that they specifically refer to them when they speak of prisoners of political motivation. And you say, and you call them without any kind of raven, without blushing, prisoners of political motivation... No, gentlemen of Bildu, I have told you on many occasions, but I would like to reiterate this: they are not political prisoners. In Spain there are no political prisoners. The prisoners of ETA are in prison for very serious crimes: for murder, for extortion, for kidnapping, for collaborating to annihilate a very important part of this society, of Basque society, of the rest of Spanish society, for trying to end all those who did not accept their totalitarian project... That's why they're in jail. And not for politics. And they continue without cooperating with Justice, without repenting, without asking for forgiveness, without accepting that what they could do could not be done under any justification. And they're talking about reinsertion. Reinsertion? When many of them, placed in the same weaver, would do the same again? You want to control the prison situation of those prisoners, and what you do is... wrap it up in packaging and chatter that, really, your focus and focus are those, because that's your goal. You need to stage that you take care of your prisoners; that is, by occupying the seats here and stepping on the carpet of this Parliament, but that you continue to take care of your prisoners, of prisoners who, as I say, despise the legal way to lower the penalties; you despise repentance, the request for forgiveness, the recognition of guilt and collaboration with Justice. And you take care of the prisoners; that is, when you put before you the demand to condemn terrorism, to reject ETA and its trajectory, you turn your back, as you did on Monday, not going to San Sebastián, pointing out that you cannot recognize that it was unfair, because that motto, in your opinion, excluded you. And, of course, what about a political group to which terrorism seems to have been fair and which cannot participate in a concentration, because it cannot share the motto that killing someone for thinking differently was unfair. And you come here today to demand a new prison policy. I told him when they proposed the paper, and I say it again today: the new prison policy is not possible, even if the transfer comes here. Many of those measures that you propose, it is not possible to do so, even if the transfer of prisons, of prison management, comes here. Because that is the exclusive competence of the State: In accordance with the provisions of our Constitution, 149.1.6 specifically, both criminal and prison legislation are exclusively the responsibility of the State. It is true, as I said at the time, that according to the provisions of the Statute of Autonomy, in article 10.14, Euskadi can exercise the competence, yes, but of organization, regime and operation of institutions for the protection and guardianship of minors, prisons and social reintegration, in accordance with the penal and penitentiary legislation, State competence; and according to 12.1, it is responsible for the implementation, as we say, of the prison legislation of the State. Competence, which must be said, for a long time did not interest the Basque Government, for the problems that it entailed. Of course, the existence of a terrorist gang conditioned the transfer of prisons; it prevented a situation of normality and coexistence in freedom, a situation which, today, at some point, is still being maintained, and normality, and this very week we have seen it, which is not yet happening. But competition, the transfer of competition, must be agreed between the two governments – I also told them when we discussed the creation of the paper or not –: the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, within the Joint Commission on Transfers and when the relevant conditions are given for this, which, we repeat, we believe are not yet in place. Clearly, we must insist on what you have said, on the answer to the crime: how to respond to the crime, what penalties to impose, how to be prison policy, the progression of degrees, the degrees that exist... All this is defined in the prison legislation and, as far as we bring the competence here, the institutions of Euskadi and this Parliament are not going to be able to pronounce themselves, and the competence of the application lies with the prison supervisory judge, which is also not transferable. Therefore, when we materialize what is ours, the management, planning, administration and organization of the prison administration would remain the same, because, as we say, not only prison legislation, but also the development of prison legislation is the responsibility of the State. We have the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Royal Decree 2011, which establishes the circumstances for the execution of working sentences for the benefit of the community. The capacity to issue regulations, which is referred to in the Bildu document, could only be internal organizational regulations, enforcement and competition regulation services, because the Constitutional Court, in its judgement 31/2010, rejects that general executive competence, general regulatory power, can be attributed to an autonomous community, but it is also the responsibility of the State. It should also be recalled here, as I pointed out at that time, that, with regard to Euskadi, in 2011, the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions signed a cooperation agreement with the Department of Justice and the Interior of the Basque Government; through that agreement, as a management order, at this time the services of penalties and alternative measures are resident in that department. We are also responsible for health, social, labour and education in relation to the prisoners, because these powers have also been assumed by the Basque Autonomous Community. Then we see what skills we have for prison treatment. And they have another objective this plenary and the document of Bildu, and it is to put insolfa, to criticize, the Spanish penal and prison system, qualified in the initiative as outdated and reactionary, because that is another of the objectives of Bildu with this plenary. All you have to do is read the background and the documents and you have said it here: to question the quality of the Spanish rule of law and of one of the pieces of that rule of law, which in this case are the penal institutions. You speak in your document of the primacy of reintegration and resocialization, and you speak it as if it were a novelty, as if it were something that would only exist in the prison system or in the execution of sentences in Euskadi, when the transfer comes, as if that were no longer done. Article 25 of the Constitution, however, imposes the orientation of custodial sentences and security measures on re-education and social reintegration. And you have also spoken about the rights of the convicted. Well, that article also provides that all persons sentenced to imprisonment shall enjoy all fundamental rights, except, logically, those expressly limited by the sentence, the meaning of the sentence or the prison law. Also, everyone will be entitled to paid work and the benefits of Social Security, as well as access to culture and the integral development of personality. You spoke of evil or non-kindness, you call it as you wish, of prison sentences, but it is that the General Organic Penitentiary Law itself already establishes, you say, in your own preamble, that prisons are a necessary evil, but that, obviously, and so it has also been said by some fellows, they are necessary. That the fundamental purpose of penalties and security measures must be the special prevention, understood as the re-education and social reintegration of convicted persons, without prejudice to the fact that they must also serve the purposes of warning, intimidation, i.e. the general prevention claimed. It points out this preamble and inspires the whole Spanish prison system the resocializing purpose of the sentence; it therefore seeks to mean that the Spanish prison system is not a being eliminated from society, but a person who continues to be part of it, who remains an active member, even if he is subject to a different regime, motivated by his anti-social behaviour – it must not be forgotten – before his stay in prison, and aimed precisely at preparing his return to free life in better conditions than in which he entered, precisely so that he can exercise his freedom socially. The Spanish prison system has been undergoing an evolution, precisely in order to try to make prisons a space of coexistence, capable of promoting the integral development of the inmates, and with the effort, it must be said, of the professionals and of the prisoners themselves, in order to try to become integrated citizens, who at the time were convicted for having committed crimes, but who want to reintegrate into society. The Spanish prison legal framework provides a comprehensive picture of flexible and open penalties, modalities and forms of enforcement for this purpose. You spoke of individualization, but it is that the Spanish prison system, one of its first characteristics, is precisely scientific individualization, composed of three degrees of classification and probation. It is a system "more evolved than progressive systems, and it enjoys greater flexibility than these and is governed by subjective and personal criteria than by rigid and objective criteria, such as old progressive systems. A more advanced system than other European models." This definition, and I close quotes at this time, I have taken it out of a document from an entity, Prison Insider, created by the founder of the International Prison Observatory. And, as I was saying, what are the principles that inspire this Spanish prison system that you have intended to put into sulfate and that seems to be coming here to be one before and one after? Well, the principles are, first of all, as I said, individualization: each of the convicts is assessed and given a regime of life not only taking into account the penalty imposed, but also his or her personality and criminal history. Grade progression is one of the characteristics of the system; it is a progressive and flexible system, which can allow to move to a higher degree, without having to go through the lower ones and which, in any case, every six months the grades are revised. It is true that the execution of the sentence where the prisoner has social roots is a principle established in the Spanish prison system. There are exceptional situations in which this cannot be the case, as is the case with the armed gangs, precisely in order to avoid their control and precisely in order to promote their reintegration. And this measure has been enshrined and endorsed not only by European courts, but more recently, in March 2017, by the Constitutional Court. It also governs the principle of maintaining relations with the outside world or through telephone communications, in writing, personal, family, group or intimate and on exit permits. The interns... You spoke of the right to life, integrity and health, because in the Spanish prison system, they are perfectly guaranteed; it is the prison administration that has to ensure their lives, their integrity and their health, without under any circumstances being subjected to torture, ill-treatment of speech or work or being subjected to unnecessary rigour in the application of the rules. At this point he wants to show the document presented by Bildu that torture in Spanish prisons is something like widespread, and I want to highlight here what the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, after visits to Spanish prisons between September 27 and October 10, 2016... That made a number of recommendations, yes, that the Secretary of Prison Institutions, at that socialist time, who appeared at the end of December in the Congress of Deputies said precisely that, according to those recommendations, steps would be taken. Yeah. But, in addition to those recommendations that, as I say, are going to be taken into consideration, he said textually: "Most of the Spanish inmates who are in modules of ordinary regime and who were interviewed by the European delegation did not claim to have suffered physical abuse by the staff. The Committee delegation appreciated the considerable efforts made by the Spanish authorities to put an end to prison overcrowding, as well as the increase in the number of non-custodial sentences and legislative reforms that reduce the length of sentences for certain offences. "The prisons visited offer good material conditions for the accommodation of inmates in regular modules. The Committee's delegation was impressed by the wide range of activities organized in the prisons visited; all of them offered ordinary inmates a wide range of workshops, occupational educational activities, as well as paid work." The program of modules of respect is positively valued, and it is emphasized that the inmates who live in them also consider it positive to live in a less prison environment; even, look at what we have with prison health, the committee says – I am quoting the Secretary of State of Prison Institutions: "The level of health services in the prisons visited was acceptable; the staffing of adequate health personnel was also generally acceptable, and their facilities were properly equipped. The number of prison officers in prisons was adequate in relation to their levels of occupation and regime." Finally, the Committee's delegation noted that, in general, requests and complaints from inmates were registered and processed by the competent authorities in a short time. This is not what I say; this is said by a European body for the prevention of torture. And, as I say to you, this I have taken from the appearance that took place, specifically, on December 13, 2018, which concluded by saying that the Spanish prison system was internationally recognized as one of the best. I do not know whether the Socialists here today will join this opinion or think that they will not, that the Spanish system, although at this time it is regulated... or be under socialist responsibility, however here it would be much better. With regard to the protection of health, precisely in addition, from Prison Institutions, what is intended is that the autonomous communities assume health competences, which, as we say, here we have already assumed them. Here the prison population, its health care, is run by Osakidetza, and receives assistance in equal coverage in all care programmes for the rest of the population; although it is improveable – as everything is obviously improveable – it is necessary to value the quality of the health care provided, because primary and specialized care have been unified, and the three prisons are primary health centres of the Osakidetza network and are integrated into their respective integrated health organizations. Special reference, it is true, must be made to the issue of health or mental health problems that most of the Spanish prison population, in general – and Basque in particular – have suffered, as many of the participants who have attended the committee have told us. Although it is also true that there is no unanimity on how to deal with the treatment, precisely, of patients suffering from mental health, because for some it would be necessary to be integrated in the psychiatric units of the Basque hospitals and, for others, the creation of specific centres. Well, continuing with the rights of inmates in the Spanish prison system, it is not something that will be proper to that system driven by EH Bildu, which preserves its dignity, privacy... It is a right that prisoners have constitutionally and also recognized, as it cannot be otherwise, in the Spanish prison system. Right to the exercise of civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights, of course, those which are not incompatible with the execution of the sentence, and freedom of religion and worship is guaranteed and through an agreement with majority religious denominations. They are the rights of the convicted and to whom the Administration must give cover, the right, as has been said here, to paid work within the availability of the Prison Administration. This right will also guarantee the acquisition of skills, which will prepare you for your life upon release from prison. The right to access and enjoy any public benefits which may be payable to it, including unemployment benefit. Right to petition and complain to the prison, judicial, Ombudsman, Prosecutor's Office, as well as to address the relevant authorities and to use the means of defending their legitimate rights and interests, and right to receive information, both personal and up-to-date, about their procedural and prison situation. Education has also been discussed here, and precisely one of the priority objectives of the Spanish prison system is that access to education: Teaching of adult training is available on a face-to-face basis. Secondary education has also been enhanced in many schools in recent years. Other regulated courses, such as Bachelor's degree, Vocational Training, can also be taught and, by agreement with the National University of Distance Education, different university courses are available in their curricula. The coordination and follow-up of the education of persons studying in prisons is carried out through cooperation agreements with the education councils of the various autonomous communities and it is the centres themselves that are responsible, and with agreements between the heads of the two administrations. In education we also have skills in Basque, and we were told how it worked when we had the opportunity to visit the prison in Zaballa. The Prison Administration must also guarantee access to social resources, which are, whether they be the competence of the autonomous community, of municipalities, deputies... In addition, we have seen and have seen and expressed our appearances, which must be coordinated the competences that correspond to each of the institutions, precisely in order to avoid dysfunctions, some of which are given at this time and some of which we were told, precisely when we had the opportunity to visit Zaballa. Mothers in prison? It was also true that they had to be treated specifically, and Spanish legislation provided for the right of imprisoned mothers to keep their children with them until they were three years old. Therefore, and since the stay of children in prison is not the most appropriate, units of mothers have been created, which is a pioneering experience in Europe and which aims to create a more adequate environment for children to develop, emotionally and educationally, during the time they have to stay in the centre, better, and also to promote the social reintegration of their mothers. With the creation of these structures, what has been intended is to permanently segregate the units of mothers in prisons, to make them independent of them, to provide them with autonomy and, of course, to give them a much better environment. It is true that at this moment there are not many, and it is true that in Basquedi they do not exist. And then, precisely, we will be able to discuss in the afternoon whether they could be established here or not. With regard to women prisoners – not just mothers, but women prisoners – different participants have shown us the need for differential treatment of women in prison, because they are masculinized places, which they already have in the Spanish prison system. Regarding human resources in prisons, they have lawyers, psychologists, educators, social workers, sociologists, interior staff and surveillance... They were talking here about the training of this staff. Well, it's already planned. There is a training plan, precisely in order to be able to meet the new challenges and to ensure that prison staff have new skills and abilities. These training programs are developed by the Training Area of the General Human Resources Branch, while in addition this area is also responsible for updating and specializing the different teams of professionals and categories. With regard to infrastructure, it is true that the design of the centres has evolved over time to enable them to adapt to new objectives and to be able to intensify such rehabilitation and training of inmates. Prisons today are not conceived as macro-carcels, but are divided into modules, which allows to create spaces that facilitate daily life in prison, and thus respond to this dual model of separating place of custody and space for other programs, and thus favor rehabilitation. The geographical distribution of the centres conforms to the demand in each territory of the state, and there are different types of detention, depending on the different personal characteristics of those sentenced to prison and their penal situation. And so, as we say, there are ordinary prisons, social inclusion centres, mother units, psychiatric hospitals and dependent units. In Euskadi – it is true, and we will be discussing it in the afternoon because we will have an opportunity there to raise in the debate of the motions for resolutions what each of the groups proposes in order to improve the enforcement of sentences in Euskadi – because we must also ask ourselves what are the needs of each of the three territories and their typology, in order to respond to those needs both in a closed and semi-freedom regime, a matter on which the comparators did not agree, because for some only there should be a prison – a single prison in Zaballa and the others, in the rest of the historical territories, disappear – and, for example, the prison surveillance judge came to say that this was a lack of responsibility and that there should be small centres, but detention centres in each of the three historical territories. I have wanted to degenerate the principles and resources of the Spanish prison system, because many of the concrete principles or measures proposed in the basic document exist. They already exist, Mrs. Goirizelaia. They exist in Euskadi, and many of us have been able to see them in Zaballa. It is undeniable that there is an area of improvement, of course there is an area of improvement; that improvements are needed in every sense: in health care, as I said, especially in inmates with mental illnesses; in educational care; in the situation of women in prisons, especially mothers; in the grouping of families. And, as I say, we will emphasize this when we have the opportunity to discuss the motions for resolutions of each of them. It should also be noted that some of the distortions can be resolved from now on, that there is no need for the management of prison institutions to be competent. For example, and I am going to put a specific point, there are resources earmarked for HIV-prescribed people who, however, cannot accept a cancer patient. For, simply, by changing it there would already be a resource for this type of sick; or residential services that depend on the deputies. Because you have joined in the car of these gentlemen, and I am convinced that the Basque Nationalist Party will talk about the goodness of the transfer of prison management and the good that will be done in Euskadi when we have the transfer of competition, because that is going to be the panacea; moreover, I dare say that, at best, there is no longer any criminal activity in Euskadi. But, really, is it? Is the transfer of competition to Euskadi – in this case management – really an improvement? Well, look, facts are love, and examples we have one and very clear: Lanbide. When active employment policies came, it was going to be revolution. What happened? For Lanbide is chaos, and the goal for which it was created remains unfulfilled. Then, more self-government does not always coincide with better self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u4	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u5	Good morning, everyone. Well, the Socialist Group comes to this full monograph with the duties done and passed to clean. And, above all, we come with clear ideas, without mixing concepts, without confusing what a vast majority can share with what a part can aspire to have. And both are important, when from EH Bildu we are proposed this plenary to address the prison model that we want in Euskadi, within our competences, the current ones, and those that we want to assume in the future, because they are those, and not others. Because we can share and share – and you know it – much of the philosophy that the proposer group brings to us in its discussion on this issue, but we do not share in any way that this plenary can be used for someone to try to understand what we are not going to do either now or when we assume the transfers. And what we are not going to do is change the penal model – that has left it too I think very clear, and it has been very well explained and extended in the speech by the spokesman of the People's Party – because for that, and you know it also perfectly well, the proposals are not to this House, they are to the Congress of Deputies. Let us not confuse plans, because we would convey a misconception of what this Parliament is and because we would vice-date the proposals that we can certainly share in a broad way in this House. And my group also believes, by the way, that this pollution between the criminal sphere and that of prison management would be the best favour that could be done to those who, at the moment, are questioning the opportunity of this transfer to the Basque Country. So the Socialist Group wants this debate prior to the negotiation of the transfer for the transfer to be especially useful, a concept of usefulness in the debate, because this transfer, we are convinced – and we say so to you – is going to take place, because we are sure that, after the forthcoming elections, there will continue to be a socialist government in Spain, which will be able to fulfil that commitment. And I am sure that I am granted this license, because I also have the intuition that most of this House, although they are going to defend other political options, also has that intimate desire. And why do we pretend to be useful? For, after all, the proposing group also brings with it, as always, its book; in this case, and it cannot hide it, that which refers to the prisoners of ETA and, of course, that which exalts its independent model of country. He hasn't been very insidious about that in his first intervention, no. But you know perfectly well what you have presented as a model for your resolution later and what you have transformed into motions for resolutions. So we are going to be practical, of course my group is going to be practical, everyone knows that, and of course also the proposers, because we have moved it to them, and this debate, Mrs Goirizelaia, is not new. The only new thing today is that we dedicate a full day to it and that we will vote later on, in the afternoon, on motions for resolutions, which we, from the truth, hope will be the most widely shared. But the debate, you know, is not new. We have done it in plenary, we have done it in committees, on several occasions. And they are going to allow me to tell you, as another spokesman has done, and we cannot escape that, because logically our political position on this transfer and on the prison model, we have already been able to expose it in the House on several occasions. And I'm going to read literally what I said in this rostrum, in this very rostrum, in June 2017, now almost two years ago. Because, according to what I have read in the document presented by EH Bildu for this full monographic, because the truth, listens little to us. I would then say to them: "The Socialists do know how the quality of life of the prison population is improved, how they are guaranteed all the rights of those who have not been deprived by the sentence that condemns them. Socialists do know how we want to deal with reintegration policies, which is what is provided for in our Constitution. "The Socialists do know how to offer formulas, which, without replacing criminal justice, promote restorative justice. The Socialists do know that it is possible to collaborate with the Government of Spain, which is and will continue to be competent in other prison areas, to achieve what the Spanish Constitution in article 25 marks, which is re-education and social reintegration. "Moreover, as far as we know, we have so clearly the idea, that it was the secretary general of my party, Idoia Mendia, who proposed to the lehendakari to have a specific department for this and another subject, that of Labour, where we have the most important challenge in terms of outstanding transfers, and we want those competences, when the agreement with the Government of Spain is reached, to be managed in the most complete way possible and in the most effective way possible. "And I tell you that we know how to do it, because we have no other prison policy that is not a real social and rehabilitation policy." And here it is true, we separate from other political groups... "And in what does not compete with us, we will be active agents to seek complicity and agreements with the Government of Spain, to achieve an effective prison policy, for this purpose of re-education and resocialization." I'd close the quotes here. All this was said, we said it by the Socialists, I was saying it in this rostrum, when I was ruling the People's Party. And we can keep it, word for word, today too, from this rostrum. Because we are clear, because we believe in our Statute, because we have a social vocation and we want to put in the hands of the courts instruments that allow for the management of the population held in Basque prisons, that allow them to better comply with that provision of re-education and re-socialization, which provides for us in article 25 of the Constitution: to put, in the hands of those who are competent, sufficient, alternative, different instruments, that wide list of what we were told here, so that we can better comply with that provision of re-education and reintegration. I have said it and I will repeat it, and I want to make it clear: the population in the Basque prisons. This is what we're talking about. Go ahead, and let it also be clear, that the Socialists share the philosophy around the root, that prisoners serve sentences close to where they have their administrative residence or their family environment, provided that it serves the objective we seek, that it is neither another nor must it be other than reintegration. But I repeat, this fate we do not decide nor will we decide, because that competition is not the one that is transferred. Although EH Bildu would like something else, let me be clear: that is not within our competence. I know that you defend something else in your agreement on the new statute; it is true. As true as we have said on several occasions, we do not share it, because we know perfectly well that this goes beyond the constitutional sphere, beyond the existing legality. And it is curious, to me it has been very curious, that it refers to some reflections made by the President of the Court of Justice of the Basque Country on the role that the prison surveillance courts of the three territories could play. And allow me to comment, Mrs Goirizelaia, because I am not going to be able to get rid of it, because when I read this, man, the truth is that I got a little smile. Man, EH Bildu, to defend his prison model in his new proposal for a statute, do you take Mr. Ibarra as a reference? But isn't Mr Ibarra the same one you accused last November of wanting to condition political action, precisely because he was against that proposal of the self-government presentation? Let's see. Something here doesn't fit. But I'm sure you're going to explain it beautifully. I, however, am clear; nor does he make much effort: judges can give their opinion when they give you reason, and they must be reprimanded when they do not; in the end, these things of theirs. I, as I have already seen in this House on several occasions, am not too surprised either; he just smiled at me. The Socialists, from where we are going or from where we are going, are from the constitutional reality, according to which the judiciary is a power of the State, without any other possible interpretation; however, what allows us this constitutional reality is to organize a system of prison treatment of its own, in terms compatible with the constitutional mandates, in order to be able to implement, more effectively, the measures applicable to prisoners and aimed at their reintegration. And someone was demonstrating, in their turn, where the Socialists would be today. The truth is that we have a wide margin of location in this plenary, because between hell marked 'all evil all evil' by EH Bildu, and the world of Yupi marked or tried to exalt by the People's Party, we have a margin of placement the rest of groups without any problems. We do not want to demonize or exalt the prison model. What we are here to say is what model we would like to see put in place in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, once we have the transfer. You see, what we believe here is a principle of legality, a principle of reality and a very clear vocation to work with all operators, with all, including prison surveillance courts, in order to deal with prison treatment in a different way. I think it is important to clarify this and to focus the debate, because when we reach agreement on this transfer, criminal and prison policy will remain the responsibility of the Spanish Government. I therefore believe that, with regard to the transfer, the debate for us is focused and confined to this area to which we are referring, and I believe that the whole House is aware of this. What Euskadi will do will be to integrate prison, material and human resources in the terms agreed upon by the two governments. It was also very well expressed by Mrs Llanos when she spoke from the rostrum: what is provided for by the Statute, the Joint Transfer Commission and the agreement between the two governments. By the way, something that has not been done by either of you and that I want to show from this rostrum, too, before I continue, is the recognition of the Socialist Group to the public employees who are working in Basque prisons, who now depend on an administration and who will then go on to depend on the Basque, in order to fulfil and enforce what the courts determine. I want to thank you for that immense work, so despised by some for so many years, with great risk in addition to your own integrity, and because they have been collaborators in all the projects that we have been implementing in Euskadi, with our own educational, health and labour resources. His experience and dedication are one more acquittal to embark on the negotiation of the transfer. The Socialists, it is true, do not understand the development of self-government as a mere accumulation of competences. We also ask ourselves for what, for what we want them. And, in this case, we are clear: what we are trying to achieve is a comprehensive policy of social rehabilitation of the sentenced population serving their sentences in Euskadi. We want to get something or a very basic goal, and it is that, whatever the reason that leads someone to jail, when he completes his sentence and returns to the street, he does so recognizing his mistake and with the firm will not to commit a crime again. And it is true that, despite the fact that the autonomous administration does not yet have the competence transferred, we must not forget that it already intervenes within prisons, in the health, educational and social fields. Mrs Goirizelaia has dispatched him with a "yes, we intervene in health, education and many other things". From there he's already gone to his book, and so far he's arrived. I will already explain to you exactly these issues of health, education and many other things. Through the agreements signed by the Euskadi Executive, Euskadi is de facto responsible for the care and reintegration of the imprisoned population. What is going to bring us, Mrs Goirizelaia, this competence, the transfer of this competence, is to allow us to have the capacity to make a policy of comprehensive intervention in prisons, a capacity to intervene comprehensively in all areas. I therefore believe that we all need to be clear that we are not starting from scratch; you know that, and even without transfer, we have been able to move forward on that model that we are now talking about. We could go back to entertaining, others have done so, in that so far the transfer of powers of management and criminal execution has not been completed. My group has no reservations about agreeing on something that points to EH Bildu on conditions other than compulsory statutory development, or why it has not even been the subject of a priority claim until quite recently. But he has forgotten to point out something that is not an excuse, which is a reality, and that ETA terrorism has caused prejudice and caution to be established over this competition, despite the fact that in no case did it affect prison policy or judicial decisions on the prison population, which in any case correspond to the courts of prison surveillance. But, one day, surely, among the many outstanding reflections on what terrorism has meant in this country, one must also reflect on the burden it incurred for the entire population imprisoned in Basque prisons, for those who had nothing to do with terrorism, who saw how their needs were relegated, how the great forgotten were, or how part of Basque society considered them to be second-class prisoners. The Socialists do not want this, nor do we want this to be so, and we demonstrate it with facts. To this end, I will remind this House that it was during the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, whose tenth anniversary we remember this year, when the Socialists took fundamental steps to move forward in the management and treatment of the prison population in Euskadi. They probably remember that because they have heard me say this in some of the many times that we have already been able to intervene in this House on this matter: it was with socialist governments that the agreements for the provision of health and educational services in the prison sector were updated. Osakidetza is responsible for health care in Basque prisons, and it was then also when we assumed the management of the integration routes, with the launch of actions to implement comprehensive socio-laboral inclusion processes, with a special emphasis on employment, as a fundamental element for the inclusion, recovery and strengthening of family ties, that improve the conditions of these people who are sentenced for their reinstatement back into society: We refer to planned departures, work camps, residential and housing resources, resources for drug abusers, training and training centres or employment guidance and support. And that was also when we assumed the management of the sentences that are carried out outside the prison sphere (the sentences of work for the benefit of the community, the suspensions and the replacements of the custodial sentences). We did all this from the conviction that we could and should fulfil the mandate of the Constitution and the General Organic Prison Law. They both say that the primary purpose of the sentences and measures of deprivation of liberty is the re-education and social inclusion of the persons subjected to them. This constitutional and legal mandate requires that convicted persons not be completely isolated from society, but that they be accorded their own citizenship rights, except, logically, those limited by the sentence, and continue to be an active part of the community to which they must return. All these decisions that were taken at the time have ensured that this community has de facto a penalty management experience that is essential in order to define a good model of prison management to be developed in Euskadi when we complete the transfer of the transfer. And so, too, when we decided to rejoin the governance of Euskadi, the Basque Socialists proposed to take over during this legislature of the Department of Justice, to assume and manage this competence as soon as it is transferred. And, Mrs. Goirizelaia, Mrs. Maria Jesús San José set herself from the minute one to work on that hope of transfer, waiting for a government that, like the current one, believed in our self-government. She will have the opportunity to explain what she has been doing, what she intends to continue doing, and what model she has been working for when she has all the tools in her hands, which, logically, later on, compete with Euskadi. From the Socialist Group, we will thank him in advance for the task he has carried out in these two years, because we know him and because we know the dedication that the whole team of the Vice-Council of Justice has had. Mrs Goirizelaia, you see, we don't start from scratch, no matter how much you try not to highlight it or not to tell it. The Socialists, before and now, we hope that the transfer of prisons will allow us – as I have already told you – to develop a genuine comprehensive policy, a social and rehabilitation policy, because we do believe that a society does not become more secure according to how many people are condemned or imprisoned, but because of its ability to prevent crime, to avoid its commission and to ensure that those who committed it do not repeat their conduct. We are fully convinced that the constitutional mandate to direct the sentences of deprivation of liberty towards the re-education and reintegration of convicted persons is as appropriate and as only possible in an advanced democratic society like ours. We therefore advocate a model of criminal and prison execution that focuses on social reintegration, offering alternatives, measures and non-custodial regimes. We advocate a model in which, from the perspective of restorative justice and the integration of public, health, educational, employment and social policies, adequate care and treatment of the imprisoned population is ensured, which favours and facilitates their reintegration into society. This is not the time – and I will certainly not exhaust my time – to explain what are the motions for resolutions that we are going to table from the Socialist Group, together with the Nationalist Group – for that we are going to have a specific shift, after we have the pause of the plenary to do so – and therefore I will only define the general lines of the model that we want to defend: We want a model based on the principles of personal dignity, citizenship, legality, reduction of prison use, resocialization at the community level, integration of public policies, incorporating restorative practices and a cross-cutting gender perspective. You see, we don't differ so much in this that I'm telling you, when you were intervening almost-almost I made crosses in the parts we had written. About that model, about the philosophy of that model, is where we can coincide. A model that bets on the execution of sentences that contributes to greater humanization, that seeks personalized attention and guarantees socio-health, educational and formative assistance, above and beyond the punitive nature of the sanction. We must convince citizens that the humanitarian treatment of convicts does not weaken us, but rather gives credibility to the values in which we want to re-educate people, who come mostly from very difficult environments, environments of marginality, exclusion, poverty, drug dependence, mental illness... Because this is the meaning of the penalties in democracy: to reintegrate those who have committed crimes. We Socialists advocate a model that enhances the enforcement of open sentences, develops a wide network of reintegration and support, and provides sufficient guarantees to judges and judges so that they can take alternative measures to the enforcement of closed sentences. A model that, since the integration of public policies, respects and contributes to the integral development of the sentenced persons, that enhances education in values, respect for plurality and human rights, that promotes their training, the adoption of working habits and the improvement of employability, that guarantees access to health services on an equal basis with the rest of the citizenry; that gives specific attention to health problems affecting the imprisoned persons; that improves the treatment of persons with mental illness and addictions, one of the problems that has shown us to be occurring more intensively in prisons, not only in Basquedi, also in the rest of the State – but, in this case, also in which we would be responsible for managing –; that empowers the customization of treatment, personalized treatment and accompanying in reintegration processes; that promotes a powerful network of insertion, facilitating transit through the release of the prison, which also facilitates, subsequently, the continuity of treatment in freedom; that favours access to and networks of social protection. The Socialists, logically, what we seek is a prison model that has as its cross-cutting principle the gender perspective, which makes visible and responsive the situation of women prisoners, because they are today the great forgotten ones of the prison system. Women serving their sentences in prisons that were designed for men, who mostly start from situations of high vulnerability, with differentiated deficits and problems, which make it imperative that we develop specific programmes and actions that provide an adequate response to their needs. It is a question of not invisibility and not homogenizing women; it is a question of paying special attention to their specific needs, to their particular situations, because what we are talking about is migrant women, older women, young women, women with diverse functionalities, women with mental illness. And the answer has to be given from the intersectionality of all programmes. Specific problems such as gender-based violence or sexual reproductive health or motherhood or lack of support in the external network should be sufficiently addressed and addressed in a differentiated manner. The implementation of this model, as you know, Mrs Goirizelaia, will require a thorough analysis of the infrastructures, the renovation and adaptation of the equipment received, an effort of integration and training of all the staff, in order to direct the prison management towards the treatment work, with greater intensity than that carried out now. We must not forget the experience we also have of the visit to Zaballa prison, of how they are also guiding the services that are provided to the jobs they perform, to the treatment services, to the treatment jobs... They told us about the respect modules. We were able to visit one. We saw the productive workshops, we saw the areas of leisure, of culture... Well, when I got out of Zaballa prison, and I had never entered a prison, I came out with a vision – I think – much more open and positive than we can have when we haven't stepped on a prison. And I'm going to give him the reason for one thing. I believe that prison must be somewhat more open and transparent, so that we know what the reality of prison is, with regard to the people who are there, with regard to the work that is done with them, with regard to the treatment that is done and with regard to the objective that these people are there. We do not want warehouses of people in the Basque Country; we want places where we can deal with and work with people, to reintegrate them into society with the guarantee that they will not re-offend. For us, the central axis of the management model – I believe that I share this with you – must be the intervention to rehabilitate and reinsert. That has to be the central axis. And on this, and not on other issues, Mrs Goirizelaia, it is on what our motions for resolutions will rest, which we will table later, that we will do so together with the Nationalist Group and that we will put them to the consideration of this House. We are clear about the prison model, the prison management model we want for EH Bildu – although it is not the same as EH Bildu likes – because we are thinking about those who are sentenced in EH Bildu right now – although EH Bildu would like something else. And what I hope, for the sake of usefulness, practicality and genuine debate, is that the approach that we Socialists and the Nationalists are taking in this House will be supported by the majority of the groups. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u7	Mrs. Tejeria, President, head of the department, chief of the Mariía Jesús, good day to all. I am pleased that we are starting from a possible important – and political – social consensus that people are waiting for, that Basque society is waiting for, and also from the results of the effort that has been made by Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu in the work of the Committee on Labour and Justice and the more than 14 appearances that we have organized. Special efforts of the president, Jone, but they are people of the academic world, of the world of experts and experts in different subjects, of the world of social entities, who have allowed us all and all, the parliamentarians that we were there, to take good note and learn from the reality of prison management elsewhere, as in Catalonia, and from the goodness and evils of prison policy. That is why it is not surprising that some issues that have already been raised by Mrs Bildu and Mrs Socialist, and also by Mrs PP, are common; I want to say that we have heard them together. Having said that, I am going to make a brief presentation, no more than 30 minutes, in eight brief reflections, which relate to the legal framework, the political framework, another model of management in the enforcement of sentences, to the penal and prison reality, to women prisoners and, in the end, to brief reflections on prisoners and prisoners of ETA. The legal framework. Almost all laws are organized and developed as pacts of coexistence for people, as pacts between unequals for coexistence between different; that is, all laws have a historical dimension and depend on the games of political and social power at every moment so that some laws or others have transcendence, change or not. Thus, Organic Law 3/1979 of 18 December of the Statute of Autonomy for the Basque Country, voted by a majority in the Basque Parliament, in the General Courts and in a referendum; with a participation close to 60%, on 25 October 1979, voted yes 90,27 %. Articles 10.14 and 12.1 provided for the transfer of powers in the area of prison management and the organization, regime and functioning of prison institutions. Up to eight times the Basque Parliament has requested the Spanish Government to transfer this competence to the Basque Government, either on a general basis, lists of priorities for outstanding competences or the setting up of joint committees, etc., etc., or on a specific basis: July 1983. October 95, where the report on the 37 priorities to be transferred unanimously to this Parliament was drawn up. October 2001. July 2002. November 2003. November 2017. April 2018. And last January 22, 2019, in addition to the work that the justice commissions have done on the subject, repeatedly. Two: political framework. It is an agreement of the majority of Basque citizens 38 years ago, and it has been proposed to be implemented. It should not have come this time; it is unjustifiable, it is unthinkable; it is sometimes even annoying, and therefore our position, our opinion, is that it is essential that the transfer of prison management be carried out. The Statute and its implementation. It's an organic law. 38 years without fulfilling it and depending on negotiation processes that take place in different times (the PNV with the PP, the PNV with the PSOE), in different political scenarios, in relation almost always to the absence of absolute majority in the Spanish government, scenarios that allow another type of political business. This situation over the years has distorted awareness of civil rights, of social rights, of the need for their implementation. And people, people can think that laws, organic laws, important laws – I insist –, social rights or civil rights are grounds for membership and agreements of opportunity, and not for compulsory compliance for all and for all. As parliamentarians and parliamentarians, as people who are here to legislate, it does not leave us in a good place. This distorts the country's legal conscience. The transfer of prisons is an organic law; it is enforced. The transfer of prisons is not only the rapprochement of prisoners and ETA prisoners to their places of origin; it is not only the release of prisoners with ETA disease – legitimate claims, on the other hand, that had to be fulfilled long ago–. It does not exhaust, the transfer of prisons, these matters. We are talking about a group of more than 1,400 prisoners and prisoners who are in Basque prisons and possibly several hundred, close to a thousand more Basque prisoners and prisoners who are in prisons outside the Basque Autonomous Community. We are talking about people who are deprived of their liberty for committing all kinds of crimes, from petty thefts or thefts to large crimes or murders, having the opportunity to manage their deprivation of liberty in Euskadi, in terms of human rights. This debate is not just the prisoners and the prisoners of ETA, nor should it be. The transfer of prison policy will essentially help people imprisoned for common crimes; around 1,500 people deprived of their liberty in Euskadi could participate in better social reintegration programmes or better resources. They have the right to freedom, not the right to health, not the right to education, not the right to socio-occupational reintegration, not the right to remake their lives... The Constitution speaks of social reintegration as an end to deprivation of liberty. For that it is necessary the transfer, in order to advance to this end. Deprivation of liberty processes must be managed in a human rights framework for all prisoners, for all prisoners. That and not another is the key to the issue we are discussing: respect for basic human rights. Three. Let us think of another model for the management of the enforcement of sentences. A process of planning and managing the objectives already agreed in the PNV and PSOE compact is needed. Yesterday I was wondering a journalist: "But doesn't the government make the laws or what?" "No, man, no, I told him; it is the Parliament that makes the laws." "And the government doesn't have a position on the issue, doesn't it have a model? He says, I'm sure they've been discussing a model for a long time in the councilwoman's department. Then the government makes the laws. "No, no, no; the law makes the Parliament." "So we were about five minutes talking. You see there's a little confusion on the subject. We want – and we want – to propose to the Basque Government that it take very good note of the proposals that we are going to agree here, in order to establish the prison model elaborated. They have the right to freedom, not the right to health, not to education, not to socio-occupational integration. They have the right, therefore, as I said, to remake their lives. We need another model of management, indeed, but for another model of management of the execution of sentences we need social pedagogy; we need to explain to the population, in the most detailed way possible, the proposals of model of management in the execution of sentences that we are discussing. It can create controversy between people to establish a prison in urban spaces, or a centre of social insertion; it is not a simple issue mediatedly this issue of prison management, but really prisoners and prisoners were sentenced to deprivation of liberty, not to live in an unworthy or humanely difficult situation to deal with, let alone to violate the basic issues of the human condition. From Elkarrekin We believe that, from a humanitarian point of view, public institutions and our Government have an important responsibility in caring for these people, because it is a good indicator of the quality of social democracy that we have acquired. The transfer of competence in humanitarian matters is an opportunity to improve the very precarious living conditions of these people at times. Therefore, more than a political transfer, for Elkarrekin Podemos is a transfer of strong social content. The prison execution, in our view, and that of the main social groups that care for the prisoners with whom we are working, should rotate on two bases, and it has already been commented on: the social reintegration of the prisoners, and leaving the deprivation of liberty in a closed regime of serving sentences as a last resort. It is certainly an opportunity to transfer prison management, so that Basque institutions add value to our effective management capacity, our humanitarian management capacity and on the basis of civil rights. We are talking about trying to capture the most advanced approaches of the most advanced democratic societies in Europe, from an ethical approach, so that Basque society can see that humanitarian actions based on the civil rights of prisoners are possible. The problem is not PP. Like it or not... It is well known that the PP is often late for the development of civil rights; it is not the PP the problem. The point is that it is not a matter of political opportunity either: now it is timely or now it is not timely to transfer prisons. It is simply necessary to properly organize the coexistence and peace processes of Basque society, to be bold and bold, to design rights-based policies that have to do with the improvement of the human condition. Today it is imperative to regain the social and political value of the Statute of Gernika; in addition to our self-government, to regain its value among Basque citizens. And, to do so, the best – I would say almost the same – way would be to explain that this self-government must necessarily be the basis for improving the living conditions of citizens, for shielding their social rights... A true Basque charter of social rights. This is the future of updating what we have in hand, difficult to manage. Four. Penal and prison reality. There are several elements that we should take into account when we talk about the culture of the social rights of prisoners and prisoners. It has already been mentioned: dignity, the right to citizenship, legality, social participation, the quality of public services, the integration of prisons into the country's social policies, the victim's perspective, labour rights, employment contracts, etc., etc. And yet today in our prisons we find that security is the only concern of the system, or the most important. This is the situation. It is not a question of denying their importance, but of seeking to ensure that security is not incompatible with guaranteeing the rights of prisoners, with guaranteeing the paths of social reintegration. About 700 prisoners and prisoners serve their sentences in Zaballa prison – when we went on a visit the other day, 698 exactly – with a capacity of approximately 1,200 inmates; another 500 in the former prisons of Martutene in Gipuzkoa and Basauri in Bizkaia. We draw attention to the variability of these figures, because, according to the judge of prison surveillance in commission, up to 540 new prisoners may be in one year, due to the important movement of prisoners and prisoners to different prisons. Another 1,000 prisoners and prisoners, approximately – does not arrive – are estimated to be serving sentences between the various prisons in the rest of the state, including the approximately 270 prisoners and prisoners of ETA, including prisons in France. With the contributions of the social initiative entities working on the reintegration of persons in prison, the transfer of prisons would give us the opportunity to develop a coherent and comprehensive prison policy in Euskadi, and would allow us to intervene in the classifications of prisoners and prisoners, destinations and the internal regime of prisons, enhancing the work being carried out by the Basque authorities in two key areas, in which we do have the transfers already made: prison health, as has already been mentioned and, on the other hand, the socio-laboral integration routes. In this regard, we must remember the need for the social services portfolio to contain, in its typologies of centres and places, sufficient to meet the needs of accompanying, not only post-penitentiary, but also prison. This is, both during the execution of the sentence and in view of the enjoyment of premises that enable progress in the prison classification and, consequently, access to various forms of open regime. It is interesting, in this sense, to attend to civil society, which, through specialized entities, works in this field, and which demand a change of model. To assume that in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country it is sufficient for the closed prison or the execution of punishments of Zaballa; that in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa are necessary both social integration centers, to care for persons deprived of their liberty, that they progress in their itineraries of socio-laboral insertion; for interns and interns of residence in Álava, possibly with a social reintegration center would be sufficient, plus the reception apartments located in Vitoria-Gasteiz. Speaking of a prison model of our own, we consider it important to stop at the work carried out by the Basque Penis Management Service of the Department of Justice of the Basque Government, a work in which our Government already has full competence. We refer not only to their direct interventions, but also – and very especially – to the synergies they generate with the network of social initiative entities working in the sector. From what has been done to date, there is a need to recommend two lines of action in this regard: firstly, we know that more than 3,000 cases initially planned have been exceeded, and the forecast is that they will increase; if there is no correlative reinforcement in their means, there is a real risk of deterioration in the quality of the service offered, which would negatively affect the achievement of a significant part of the strategic objectives already announced in 2014, and envisaged in the current Government Pact, on the issue of restorative justice and reintegration. And secondly, the social initiative entities, with which we obviously believe we need to talk to them, must be invited to the model management and planning processes. They are a fundamental factor in our view, on which the chances of the person in prison receiving effective support in their socio-occupational integration process rest. It is to be welcomed, therefore, that they have begun to act in a coordinated network like ESEN Especxe Sarea Euskadi-Nafarroa, which are, approximately, 20 social entities supporting prisoners and prisoners, where are the Red Cross, Caritas, Sare, Bidesari, etc., etc., Gizakia Fundazioa eta besteak... We hope that this will contribute to the knowledge of their work by the Basque public authorities, as well as to consolidating the prison reality as part of the agenda in social policies. Five. The object of the sentences. In a debate on prison policy, we cannot ignore the issue of prison sentences. If the Constitution itself states, in its article 25.2, that custodial sentences and security measures are geared towards re-education and reintegration, it is therefore not legislated when the sentences in the Spanish State are much longer than in pre-democratic times and in the countries of our environment. Not being the Spanish territory an insecure country, the crime rate is 43.2 crimes per 1,000 inhabitants: few crimes are committed and very few are violent, say what the media say. In 2018, for example, the crime rate in the state was 44.1 per 1,000 inhabitants, and in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, 38.3 crimes per 1,000 inhabitants. Our prison rate is the third highest in Europe. The duration of the sentences is more than twice the European average, and we have a prison policy of about 60,000 people, when what would correspond to their crime rate would be half. Sixty per cent of people incarcerated in our country do not present crimes that generate a great social alarm, with these being of a wealth-like and medium-sized nature (theft, theft and drug trafficking), on which there is a basis where socio-economic conditions, poverty, induce crime, many of them also committed by people who present problems of addictions previously. A coherent criminal policy should direct its efforts towards the goal of reducing the number of people in prison, without increasing crime, and this is betting on other alternative mechanisms to prison – they have already been mentioned – such as mediation, therapeutic treatment, community work, open regime or conditional release. These measures would reduce recidivism, which would benefit both victims and society as a whole. Six. Mental health and drug addictions and other addictions. "People who suffer from mental illness should not be in prison, because it is not the ideal place for their total healing, evolution and development," expressed at the XXVII Congress of the Spanish Society of Psychiatry Law, held in Bilbao recently. More than 40 per cent of people serving custodial sentences in Zaballa prison have mental disorders, with fragile follow-up by the public health system: dual personality disorders, addictions, psychosis, most so-called serious mental disorders. A mental health unit in Osakidetza serves this group. The drug enters and circulates freely among prisoners in any prison in the country, including Zaballa, sometimes generating new drug addicts, of whom it was not before. It therefore seems necessary, first, to improve the quality and resources available for the care of these persons; secondly, to develop treatment at the community level; thirdly, to take account of the needs of the patient and his or her family members in a unique manner; fourthly, to organize properly coordinated and comprehensive interventions by the judicial, prison, health and social systems; and fifthly, to ensure that therapeutic treatment plans deal with discrimination and the stigma of mental illness and deprivation of liberty. French philosopher Michel Foucault comments about the prison and its social role: "Prisons do not lower the crime rate; detention provokes recidivism and even makes criminals; former prisoners and former prisoners will have a great deal of difficulty for society to accept them; prison makes the detainee's family miserable...". However, despite these criticisms, the prison has continued to defend itself as the best, least bad, instrument of serving the sentence, provided that certain principles are maintained. Already practically since the 18th century. "Principle of correction: criminal detention must have as its essential function the transformation of the behaviour of the individual. "Principle of classification: detained persons must be divided according to age, availability, therapeutic and/or pedagogical procedures to be used with them and the stages of their evolution. "Principle of modulation of penalties: the development of penalties must be able to be modified according to the individuality of the person arrested. "Principle of work as an obligation and as a right: work must be one of the essential elements of the transformation and socialization of the detained person. "Principle of prison education: education, the educational process of the detained person, is a precaution in the interests of society, as well as an obligation to the person. "Principle of technical control of detention: the prison regime must be controlled by specialized personnel, who possess the ethical and moral and technical capacity to ensure the proper training of individuals. "Principle of foreign institutions: the prison must be followed by measures of control and assistance, until the former detainee is permanently rehabilitated". The current reality of our prisons is the sum of the old problems and the most recent, such as the emergence of new drugs with very pathological effects, a chronic economic crisis that shifts towards marginalization to broad social strata, increases in social inequalities, administrative misadjustments in the so-called socio-health system that can alter, in fact, social cohesion, or misunderstanding and difficulty in addressing personality disorders. In this context, it is necessary to reflect on the alternatives of therapeutic processes to these patients. The process of deinstitutionalization that was tested years ago was positive, and it has been a failure in community alternatives and intermediate structures, which has caused major dysfunctions and neglect at the moment, which, together with a policy based on the hardening of the Criminal Code and the inadequacy of alternatives to custodial sentences, fills prisons mostly with people with various addictions and other mental disorders. You are. Women in prison. The rate of female prisoners in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is about 10%, 8% in the Spanish State, and 5% is the European average. In other words, in Euskadi we double the European average of women prisoners. Many of them carry a history of psychological, physical and sexual abuse. Women serving sentences also suffer from problems added to their condition of being in prison, since their homes are often further destructured and come from areas of greater poverty and social exclusion, including higher illiteracy rates. More than half of the women currently in prison have used drugs. The previous crimes of sexism are common, and approximately 80% have sons and daughters. Women imprisoned in Euskadi are for crimes against public health, drugs, and property, small crimes. Those who are mothers in prison, with children under three years of age, are separated from them or transferred to prisons with units for mothers. Spaces are inadequate. It would be necessary and desirable to set up units here in Euskadi, so that this does not happen: Community equipment and other types of floors protected and dependent on open prison management. The social inclusion centres we have are not enough. There are usually no specific remedies for mothers who are in prison. In general, in the absence of a gender perspective in prison policies, it is necessary and appropriate to develop or strengthen protocols for officials, in relation to non-machist treatment in their relationship with women deprived of their liberty. In access to health, education, work, conditions of reduction of sentences and the process of relationship between mothers and children, before and after three years of age, it is essential to respect the chain of affections, and therefore specialized training and specific units are essential. About the prisoners and the ETA prisoners. We cannot conclude our intervention without referring to the group of persons deprived of their liberty for terrorist crimes. It is not the largest group of people in our prisons, but its situation certainly generates a clear social and political concern, to which our group has never been alien. Both Ararteko and multiple social and political actors have been expressing their view in favour of a change in the criminal and prison treatment of terrorist crimes, in the same terms of defending the human rights of all persons deprived of their liberty, to which we referred in our intervention. Bearing in mind that the year has not made any significant progress in this regard, we must reiterate the demand for all prisoners to serve their sentences in prisons close to their places of origin, in order to meet a threefold objective: to promote their social reintegration, as required by the legal order...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u9	...avoid the social uprooting of convicts and favoring their social ties, and end the negative effects, costs and risks that removal entails for family and friends, who are not justifiable in any way and who are perfectly avoidable in the current situation. On the other hand, we have repeatedly called for the prison administration to facilitate the application of legal rules providing for the release of prisoners suffering from serious or incurable diseases. And we must also reiterate the call for the elimination of special provisions relating to terrorist groups and crimes, which prevent the granting of third-degree regime and access to conditional release. Fulfilling the sentence in nearby prisons, release of people suffering from incurable or serious diseases, access to the open regime, three circumstances that applied in the shortest possible time should lead us to a new scenario of normality, which this country needs to move forward on the path of coexistence. We have people, then. Dry people, people with difficulties, people who have committed crimes and are paying for them. But they are people, let us not forget, subject to rights; people who, for the most part, can and should have another opportunity; people with dignity, social and civil rights; people to whom this society cannot turn its back, as if they did not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u11	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today we have a monographic cluster called EH Collector, "the monographic bay, the Araban, the Bukka, and the model of prison we need in the gym." In the document presented publicly by EH Bildu last 2 March in Donostia, under the title Towards an alternative prison policy in Euskal Herria, which was subsequently transferred to the parliamentary groups and which today has served as a guide to Mrs Goirizelaia's intervention, first of all they ask why and why now a reflection on the management of prison competition. And it's not a bad question, when on such a serious subject you really have been thinking and working for a long time. Why does EH Bildu now raise this debate? This debate on a transfer under the 1979 Statute, that is, now 40 years ago. It's never late and welcome. There are some spokespersons, who are not present now, who do not usually like the ongitorris that we usually give; in this case, ongitorris is harmless and positive. But we understand that, in this case, as I was saying, it seems like a non-small excuse. And you have begun your argument by mentioning an organic law: Stated Autonomy, now 40 years old and the left patriot wouldn't admit it in 1979. Article 10.14 of the Statute of Gernika confers on the Basque public administration the exclusive competence of "the organization, regime and functioning of institutions of prisons and social reintegration". Article 12.1 states that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is responsible for the implementation of the State's prison legislation. EH Bildu talks that the main obstacle to prison management is the systematic refusal of the Spanish governments in charge, claiming, on most occasions, reasons for political opportunity – today we have heard it also from Mrs Llanos' mouth. We share it and we have been denouncing it for more than 30 years, although perhaps we also lack some self-criticism, as the phenomenon of terrorism has obviously greatly conditioned prison policy in this country. And they say, although Mrs Goirizelaia has not expressly said this today, that the attitude of the previous Basque governments must also be highlighted by rejecting such competition, having renounced to deal with this claim in a demanding manner, even considering that the option of the Councillor of Public Governance and Self-Government has been delaying, dubious and frustrating, which, in addition to being uncertain, is totally unfair. The attitude of the left abertzale in this matter can be described, at least, as delaying, dubious and frustrating. It seems that by blaming others they want to take away their share of responsibility in this matter. The position of the PNV, the Basque Nationalist Party, and the governments to which it has been a party has always been the same in this area: Since 1 February 1988, in which the Basque Government first addressed the Ministry for Public Administrations to express its willingness to initiate contacts leading to this transfer, which has then been reiterated, as Mr Uria said, in agreements of 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and more recently with the updating of the list of outstanding transfers, up to the statements of the Commissioner for Labour and Justice herself, Mrs San José, just over a month ago, when she stated in this Chamber, in full control, that her department is prepared to assume these new management powers, and reaffirmed herself in what she stated in her first appearance in this Parliament, back in January 2017, to explain the general lines of her department, when she said that one of the issues to which they were going to devote was to making a definite diagnosis of what is the reality of our prisons, what their needs are and what model they wanted to put in place with the new tools they were going to have at their disposal. This has been the attitude of the different Basque governments. They also contradict each other, because they often say that the Spanish Government has recently sent a timetable for the negotiation of transfers to which this transfer is located and they do not wonder why. By divine inspiration, by motu proprio, thanks to the efforts and negotiations carried out by EH Bildu in the General Courts or with the Spanish Government? And they finish this paragraph by saying that, in any case, EH Bildu wants to push the debate to be prepared for a possible transfer, as if nothing had been done so far. There is no starting point in this area, neither in management nor in the analysis and debate: In management, we have successful experiences developed from the skills assumed so far – some of the speakers who have spoken earlier said so. For example, by saving distances, the model of juvenile justice, the management of alternative prison sentences, community work, Gakoa programmes for the rehabilitation of abusers, or awareness-raising and awareness-raising for offences against road safety. The responsibility for reinsertion routes for convicted persons and the results are excellent in terms of recidivism. Nor does it start from scratch, as I said, in studies and debates on this subject. If you want, in the second round, I will detail which ones have been carried out, although you are sure that you know them perfectly; in fact, in your document and in the intervention you have used some of them. We go on to say that our first motion for a resolution, together with the Basque Socialist Group, is going to be something that we understand logically so that the rest of the approaches that are going to be taken today can be carried out and that the Basque Parliament will once again reaffirm itself in the demand of the Spanish Government for compliance with the law, the Statute of Gernika, and proceed to the transfer in its articles 10.14 and 12.1. And this is even more right now, because of the motion recently promoted and passed in the Senate at the request of the People's Party against pending transfers to Euskadi, against compliance with the law of the Statute. Mrs Llanos, exclusive competence, and it belongs to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Here there is no nationalist interpretation of the Statute; rather, where appropriate, a Spanish nationalist interpellation appears to be. On the contrary, it draws attention to the fact that the first of EH Bildu's 100 measures for the management of prison competition in the aforementioned document is that prisoners with administrative residence in the Basque Autonomous Community must be brought to the prisons located in Euskal Herria. And the second block of measures proposed, after this, by EH Bildu in that document, before analysing the situation of women in prison, before the measures on infrastructure, officials and prison treatment, before the victims, the rights to health, work, education and culture, refers to measures with regard to exceptionality applied to prisoners of political motivation. Allegia, ez duzuela ezkutatzen billura monografiko honen asmo politicakoa eta zein den gai honetan zuen lehentasunezko helburua. Its initial priorities must also be seen in the memoir and its electoral programme. Which seems legitimate to us. But we must be clear, Mrs Goirizelaia, on this issue, and on this issue this House has already spoken and has also had the favourable vote of our parliamentary group. As much as they have changed the order, after seeing our draft motions for resolutions last Monday, this seems to be their objective, and they vary, the order varies, depending on the audience to which it is intended. We share, with the proponents, that we do not want the transfer to continue doing what Madrid does, that we want to innovate to have a model of own prison management, based, as the councilwoman advanced, on the reintegration. But what sets us apart basically from you are three aspects: First, while, as they say in their document and today has repeated their spokesman, EH Bildu poses it in his electoral program of this parliamentary 2016-2020, for the Basque Nationalist Party it is a historical claim for which he has been working for more than 30 years. Secondly, while EH Bildu is especially concerned with legitimate ETA prisoners, and does not conceal it at all, the Basque Nationalist Party is concerned with defending the rights of all persons deprived of their liberty, including ETA prisoners and prisoners. And finally, and while EH Bildu – well, at least the self-named abertzale left, whose spokesman is undeniable that it comes from there – has not yet made self-criticism of the terrorist past suffered by this country, in front of that, we ask the prisoners, all of them, to take responsibility and repent of the unjust damage caused. And therefore, it is curious, too, but it may have some logic from that point of view, which in the second section of the document (previous), refer only to what has happened since the last autonomic elections of September 2016, referring to the electoral program of EH Bildu for them. And if we talked about the background, not the immediate ones, but a little bit further, we would have to ask ourselves what the previous electoral programs said. Eta ezker abertzaleak now Honetan Izandako jarrera, zein izan yes? Zeren eta, argi eta garbi, aurrekari askoz gehiago daude. Regarding the diagnosis of the current prison reality, they give a series of objective data, some not very up-to-date, and make a series of assessments, some positive, others more critical, in which we can agree on some. Many of them, as Mrs Goirizelaia said, come from the appearances held in the Committee on Labour and Justice, to which, to those who attended those appearances, we personally appreciate their contributions, and others are based on those works to which I referred earlier, much earlier than those which circumscribe the background by social institutions or collectives of the matter. And to conclude this paragraph, they make a budgetary point, which raises doubts as to its reliability and rigour, as it is based on 2006 data; but, nevertheless, we do agree that the transfer will require a budgetary effort. By way of example, only as a reference method, the Councillor of Justice, Mr Mundó, when he appeared, said that in Catalonia in 1986 13 million euros were invested and in 2017 360 million euros were invested in prison management. I therefore have no doubt, as Mrs Goirizelaia said, that this budgetary effort is possible; I have no doubt about it, but it is also true that parliamentary support will logically be needed to be reflected and approved at the time in the general budgets of the autonomous community. We do not know whether from EH Bildu they are ever willing to support those future budgets. And finally, with regard to the inspiring rights and principles of a Basque prison policy, we share much of what is stated in the document, as they are internationally recognized rights and principles. While we do miss, I repeat, that there is a minimal self-criticism of the wrong done in this country. Bat cataz gizzarte garakidearen lehentasunezko helburu bat de la giza eskubideak erespectatzea. Guk gaur, age due 40 bumps, horixa bera aldarrikatzen dugu: giza eskubide guztiak partona guztientzat. We, today, 40 years ago and since our creation as a party 124 years ago, claim the same: all human rights for all people. In this connection, we will be presenting our motions for resolutions, which we will be doing together with the Socialist Group, and we will be doing so this afternoon, following their presentation in the register, as is the case in practice. For our parliamentary group, Euzko Abertzaleak, the general outlines of the future exercise of the powers provided for in the Prison Services Statute should be based on a model of own prison management, which, first of all, bets on a model based on dignity and human rights. One-tenth-first-year-old eskibideetan oinarritutako ereredu baten aldeko apustua. Respect for the dignity of individuals, victims and victims, in their broadest sense, must constitute the unbreakable axis and limit of criminal and prison execution. Given that persons deprived of their liberty are in a situation of particular vulnerability in the exercise of their fundamental rights, international prison law states that the penalty of deprivation of liberty should consist only of deprivation of liberty, without adding any additional suffering; it is therefore necessary to humanize the stay of persons in prisons. And, in this regard, as other speakers have also said, a special reference should be made to women in prison, which, although a minority group, is large compared to the countries in our environment. And given that prison policy has been designed for the majority prisoner, who is the male, women in prison suffer exponentially from inequality and discrimination within prisons. There was no difference in duties, but in rights, and it was therefore necessary to work with a gender perspective in all areas of the prison system. Nor can we forget the victims, who are increasingly acquiring a greater role. The model we propose aims to enhance the victim's perspective and reparation in the broadest sense, guaranteeing the victim all rights under international standards and domestic legislation within the framework of restorative justice. Studies show that these mechanisms of restorative justice are more successful than imprisonment in reducing recidivism, in addition to being a fairer criminal law, more respectful of fundamental rights and more effective. Secondly, it must be based on the guarantee of the civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of persons deprived of their liberty as regards citizens. We understand that, with the exception of the limitations that are necessary for imprisonment and the consequent loss of liberty, therefore, persons deprived of their liberty must continue to enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms: persons imprisoned must enjoy, in an effective manner, all rights that have not been limited by the sentence. In this regard, the Norwegian prison model, which is a reference in this area, shows that treating prisoners as human beings works, with very low crime rates and recidivism rates below 20%. Their argument is very simple, in a somewhat crude but clear way, they say: "Treat people like garbage, and they will be garbage; treat them like human beings and they will act like human beings." Thirdly, we must bet on the provision of properly individualised integration opportunities, with the necessary infrastructure, equipment and staff for this purpose. We understand that, in view of the mandate of article 25.2 of the Constitution and as advocated by international prison law, that the execution of custodial sentences should primarily aim at the re-education and social reintegration of the offender, the best way to carry it out is, in the face of imprisonment as a criminal penalty par excellence, to bet on the use of alternative measures of a therapeutic, restorative and community nature, with personalized attention as a way to such re-education and social reintegration, establishing a more humane, progressive and ultimately more respectful of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and also with less human, social and economic costs. And in this area of resocialization, the existence of a broad Basque social fabric, the entities of the third sector, concerned and busy in supporting persons who are sentenced and/or imprisoned, must be highlighted and valued very positively in order to guarantee the objectives of their re-education and reintegration, and to reduce their stay in prison. Moreover, it allows the courts to have a reliable support of social resources to develop the formulas that the law makes possible in terms of treatment and alternative compliance to prison, since it is, through these entities of the third sector that work closely in the prison field, as the needs and potentialities of the prisoners are best known, with a view to their reintegration. Fourthly, it must also be based on coordinated inter-agency action to address the diversity of issues affecting persons deprived of their liberty. Social reintegration must be addressed in an integral way, from a perspective of interdepartmental co-management and also of inter-institutional co-management. Therefore, within the Basque Government, this work is not only the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Justice, which will have to lead this coordination, but also the responsibility of the Departments of Health, Education, Employment and Social Policy. And at the interinstitutional level, it demands the involvement of other actors, such as the parliaments, the municipalities, the administration of justice, the bar associations, etc. And other social actors, such as third sector entities, for the realization of the purposes and means suitable for the execution of penalties and security measures. This comprehensive care should ensure socio-health and training assistance, in order to seek the ultimate end of their re-education and social reintegration, and, despite not having the transfer, the Basque Government has been working for years to improve prison management, with this basic objective. And although there is much room for manoeuvre, with the transfer, we understand that this is going to be substantially improved. Thus, the Department of Education plays an important role in the literacy, re-qualification, social and competence training of the imprisoned population through adult education, vocational training or university studies. As a matter of interest, during the current course, 2018-2019, there are enrolled in permanent adult education, in the three prisons of Euskadi, a total of 516 people, almost 40% of the total prison population of Euskadi. And with regard to the organization of prison health in the CAPV, Autonomous Community, produced the transfer in 2011, the fundamental objective has been achieved, which was to integrate prison health care into the Community, giving persons deprived of their liberty assistance of the same quality, with the same coverage, structures and tools as those provided to the general population, since we believe that the sentence does not involve differentiated health care, even with the strengthening of other specialties. Currently, Osakidetza devotes almost 40 professionals, health personnel, to the three prisons in Euskadi (Martutene, Zaballa and Basauri), for a population of just over 1,300 people. It compared with the health centre in my municipality, with a population of 7,500 people, and it does not reach half of the health personnel; that is, this is what is established as a principle and the principle of equivalence is guaranteed. Therefore, the Department of Health, in a pioneering process, has achieved the integration of prison health in Osakidetza, improving the quality of care for persons deprived of their liberty, and is working in collaboration with third sector entities, with two of the current problems of prisons (the mentally ill and drug addicts), and also in improving the connection of prison with the outside world, this socio-health aspect in which the Department of Employment and Social Policy promotes joint interventions between technical staff of prison institutions and social institutions and entities, for the design of insertion routes that allow for proper referral and facilitate the best fit of the person with external resources. As far as Mr Uria was concerned, a clarification: so much confusion of the journalist at the end of the day, we are all confused. The proposals that are to be put forward and put to the vote today are not for Parliament to make a prison law; they are for Parliament's control and leadership functions to be assigned to the Government, which is competent to do so, to design and develop the prison management model. Contributions that, by the way, as I will comment on later, must be added to others. With regard to what Mrs Llanos said, we respect the initiatives and concerns of the parliamentary groups, as it could not be otherwise. Each one, each group, decides the topics to be dealt with, the way and the moment, and may be criticized or not: this depends on the rest of the groups. He said, and expressed it in contrast to what EH Bildu put forward, which seemed to have little interest in this matter by the People's Group, in fact it was reflected in the very interest of his parliamentary group during his speech and throughout this debate. And briefly tell him that we do not agree with his penal and prison model, and that is not the penal and prison model we want for Euskadi. Initially we do not agree on their attitude on the transfer of competition. It said, "when the conditions are in place for this." And who interprets when the conditions are set for it? The People's Party? The Spanish government? The Constitutional Court? We have read Articles 10.14 and 12.1, and I believe that the margin of interpretation is quite limited. We demand compliance with the law, apart from any political situation; we do not accept a partial view of that obligation to comply with the law. Nor do we share the punitive populism they have assumed from the People's Group, which are changing the end of the prison sentence, from the goal of reintegration to mere punishment and revenge. Our model, as a humanist party we are, is not that. And you made allusions to the Basque Nationalist Party, before I spoke: the best defense is a good attack. He said "the PNV will talk about how good it's going to be." Have no doubt, as in health, that in education... Look at what has been done so far in this area, in prison without having the competence: therefore, have no doubt about it. I'm finishing up. As Ararteko said, a democratic society is characterized by claiming that the suffering caused by the sentence is the least possible. The most recent international legislation in this area calls for citizens to be aware of the damage caused by prison, its human, social and economic costs and, consequently, the need to implement alternative forms of punishment, which promote personal responsibility and social reintegration. All this, without forgetting the interests and rights of the victims of the crimes. And in this line you have to work and you are working. And of course, as I said before, the system of criminal execution that will definitely be implemented will be the result of a complex process. We will not decide today in this plenary. It is a serious and complex issue to have one before, one during and probably still one after. And, once the transfer is produced, it will be necessary to adapt the decisions that are made to the real needs. And, in this process, all the institutions will be involved. The institutions – government, parliaments, municipalities –, other institutional agents – Administration of Justice – and social – unions and entities of the third sector – and among all will be marked what are the lines they want for a prison model of Basque. The European prison rules and the recommendations of the Council of Europe say that prison should be the last resort to respond exclusively to the most serious crimes. The alternatives to prison should be the rule, and prison, the exception. We therefore bet on a model based on the reduction of prison use and the promotion of alternative sentences to imprisonment and restorative justice, which is not precisely the line that is being followed at the state level by the tightening of sentences in recent years. A model, therefore, aimed at reducing the number of persons imprisoned, ensuring respect for their fundamental rights – except those expressly limited by the sentence – and ensuring that prisons comply with the aims of re-education and social reintegration. I don't know how many times I've repeated this sentence: re-education and social reintegration. We must work to make criminal justice a more preventive, restorative and less repressive justice, because it will be more effective and less costly. And I end up with a sentence... – the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, the so-called Nelson Mandela Rules, have been mentioned here, with a phrase that starts the text with a photo of Mandela. Mandela says – or Mandela said –: "It is often said that no one really knows what a nation is like until they have been in one of their prisons." And we, as in the management of other public services in Euskadi, expect the transfer in order to implement a prison model of our own, which allows us to boast and set an example in such management. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. After that, I'm sure he's got the word. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. On 15 November 2018, MEPs from Euskal Herria Bildu presented to the Bureau of this House an initiative to hold this full monograph on the prison model to be implemented, once the transfer provided for in the Statute of Gernika takes place. I have no doubt that, in view of the debate you are holding, it will be enriching to define the prison model to be developed in Basque. Article 10.14 of the Statute of Gernika, adopted in 1979, provides for the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to "organise, regulate and operate institutions and institutions for the protection and guardianship of minors, prisoners and social reintegration", as well as for the implementation of prison legislation – Article 12(1). Although the matter of the protection and guardianship of minors had already been transferred, matters relating to institutions and prisons were not materialized. There have been many circumstances – which I will not go in and value and mention now – that have prevented compliance with the provisions of the Statute. The governance agreement signed in November 2016 between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, which is reflected in the government agreement of Euskadi 2020, has, as one of its fundamental axes, a commitment to develop and promote the self-government of our community. Among these priorities is the achievement of the transfer on prisons that we are dealing with today. This manifest political will of the present Basque Government was not matched by the governments of the People's Party. We had to wait for the change of government in Spain, for the Joint Transfer Commission to meet. After seven years, it was possible that, at the end of last year, the situation would be unblocked and that, finally, the Basque Government and the Spanish Government would establish a timetable to implement 33 transfers, including those relating to prison facilities. In the Basque Government, we welcome the possibility of dialogue and political commitment between the two Governments, in order to improve self-government from respect for laws and legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, what is envisaged by this agreement is nothing more or less than compliance with the provisions of the Statute and the Constitution. I would first like to make it clear that the transfer agreement is neither concession nor pre-benda, and that it is fully immersed in our legislative framework. It is a matter of transferring subjects that have already been transferred to Catalonia, i.e. the functions of direction, organization and inspection of prison institutions, as well as the prison activity of those residing in the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In the personal and material field, this is achieved by the staff of penitentiary institutions, which will be integrated into the structure of the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and the corresponding real estate. It is clear, from the outset, that prison policy is not being transferred, which will remain the exclusive competence of the State; and, in this regard, we will continue as the Basque Government calling for this transfer to be made to the Government after the general elections as a priority. Our framework of action is set out in the General Organic Prison Act of 1979, as amended by two laws in 2003, 5 and 6, as well as Royal Decree 190/1996, which regulates the prison regulations. In the Department of Labour and Justice we consider, from the beginning of the mandate, the need to define the prison model to be applied in Euskadi at the time of the transfer. Our model is committed to and committed to the constitutional principles and the European doctrine in this area, and it is aimed at the entire population, without distinguishing them from the nature of the crime committed. What we want is for all of them to assume their responsibility and the damage caused. We start from the fact that the sentences are imposed by the judges and it is they who make the decisions on the enforcement regime in each case. The obligation of the Department of Labour and Justice shall be to make available to the judiciary the means and tools necessary to ensure that decisions are made with sufficient guarantee, and that these are the most appropriate to meet the constitutional objective of social reintegration. I have already told you that we have transferred competence in juvenile justice. But there are also other records of transfers, such as those on staff integrated into the teachers'corps serving in the prisons of the autonomous community or on prison health. It is also necessary to highlight the agreements signed between the Basque and Spanish governments in 2011, which allow us to manage all penalties and measures in an open environment. For our part, we have taken various initiatives, which I will highlight below. One of them has been to know the opinion of Basque society on the transfer of prisons. To this end, we asked the research team of the Department of Political Science and Administration of the Basque public university, Euskobarometer, that the last wave of 2018 include questions on this subject. The results have been eloquent and, from our point of view, positive, and can be summarized in the following conclusions: two out of three respondents, 68 %, consider this transfer to the Basque Government positive, compared to 11 % that values it negative. This majority opinion is reinforced by the fact that it manifests itself in the three historical territories, between women and men, in all age groups, in all economic or educational levels, between Basques and Spanish speakers, and in all the electorates, except those of the PP and Citizens. The majority's argument in favour of transfer is confidence in the greater effectiveness of autonomous management. As I have already commented to you on some occasion since the beginning of the legislature, it has been a pretence of this councillor and the Justice Area of the Department to have a diagnosis of the situation, a diagnosis that allows us to reflect on the principles and strategic lines on which a prison model should be based in Euskadi. That is why I requested your cooperation from a group of experts, led by the Vice-Counsellor of Justice and including political, technical and technical leaders, as well as the General Secretariat for Human Rights, Co-operation and Co-operation; a group in which the Basque Institute of Criminology, the Ararteko, as well as academic, prison and third sector professionals, have also taken part individually. I would like to thank all of them for their dedication and contributions. This working group has made contributions to the creation of the model we are looking for. At the moment, in the department we are analyzing these proposals and incorporating others, which are based on own assessments and contrasting with other bodies, such as members of the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the department maintains a fluid contact with the Department of Justice of the Generalitat de Catalunya, in order to know and analyze directly its transfer process, the difficulties and the assessment that Catalan officials make of the management of this competition. It is not necessary to stress the importance of this monographic plenary, which, as planned, will adopt draft resolutions, which will be incorporated into the final document. Therefore, at this moment, I cannot give you a closed document; but, in my speech, I will tell you what is the general outline of what will be the result that will obviously be sent to you once it is completed. This is also a good opportunity for citizens to perceive the model we are betting on and our commitment to the constitutional principles and European doctrine in this area. To define the model, we start from an analysis of the current situation, which has three sections: a diagnosis of the situation of the system of penalties and measures in the open environment, of the network responsible for the reintegration of prisoners and of the prison system in detention. As I have commented earlier, the agreement signed in 2011 between the Minister of Justice of the Basque Government and the Secretary of Prison Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior has made it possible for our autonomous community to be the only one, with the exception of Catalonia, that manages all sentences and measures in an open environment. To this end, the Basque Penis Management System has been established. This service is strongly committed to reintegration, with multidisciplinary teams, which ensure the execution of sentences in an open environment, in collaboration with the courts of execution. I must stress that we are pioneers not only at the state level but also in Europe, with innovative programmes, such as the Gakoa programme for the rehabilitation of men convicted of gender-based violence crimes, and the Awareness and Awareness Programme for Crimes against Road Safety. In the future, we plan to study the implementation of other programmes aimed at hate crimes, social media crimes and others. Another positive experience that has been put into practice in our community is that security measures for people with psychiatric conditions are being implemented, thanks to the collaboration of the Basque Penis Management Service, with the executory judges and Osakidetza, saying that they are being carried out in psychiatric centres, civilians and Aita Menni, avoiding their entry into psychiatric penitentiaries. Success lies in the fact that a reintegration rate of almost 100% is achieved. Reality has made the Basque Penis Management Service a fundamental tool, with impeccable professional dedication, but with a certain level of saturation. In 2018, 4,966 people were served by the service: 569 women, 11.6% and 4,397 men, 88.54 %. Aware of this situation, a new tender form is being prepared in the department which will award the new contract and which will allow for an increase from 25 to 40 people who make up the service, with a budget increase for 2019 of almost 1 million euros. The care of convicted persons who have reached the semi-freedom regime is another priority. In Euskadi, there is a network of third-sector entities grouped in the ESEN Network, Espetxe Sarea Euskadi-Nafarroa, which is highly professional and competent, working with the reintegration of convicted persons. The Department of Justice, the Department of Labour and Justice, annually calls for grants to be made available to third-sector entities to carry out various activities with persons in semi-freedom detention, such as scheduled departures and work camps, residential and housing resources, resources for drug abusers, training and training centres, guidance centres and employment support. These activities have access to 312 people, 285 men and 27 women, who were in semi-freedom by the end of 2018. The last element of analysis of the current situation is the prison detention system. As of December 2018, 1,314 persons, 1,191 men and 123 women are held in prison, resulting in a prison rate of approximately 60 persons per 100,000 inhabitants. The number of staff serving in these centres is approximately 600, including staff and labour. I would like to thank all of them for their commitment to achieving the social reintegration of those who have committed a crime, an extraordinary task, although they have had to develop it in a situation of contempt and harassment, and risking their lives. A special memory and recognition for the officials who were the victims of kidnapping and murder. The Arab prison is a prison for prisoners, while those in Basauri and Martutene are centres intended primarily for persons in pre-trial detention. It should be noted that none of these three prisons is designed for prisoners classified as first-degree prisoners of the prison regime. It should be pointed out that there is a project for the construction of a new prison in Zubieta, Gipuzkoa, which will undoubtedly have more suitable conditions than those of the current centre in Martutene, which would logically be closed. It is also envisaged that a social integration centre, the first to be established in the autonomous community, will be located next to the prison in Zubieta. Ladies and gentlemen, the reflection we are making in the department is part, among other things, of the experience developed through agreement between the General Administration of the State and the Basque Autonomous Community, and of a basic consensus on the direction that is to be given to prison management. This background, together with the analysis of successful international experiences in reducing crime, makes it possible to clearly identify the principles on which to act in the pursuit of the stated objectives. Also, and saving distances, our juvenile justice system is an enriching experience, which will bring us to build the model we want. There are six principles on which we will base our model, of which I can put forward some aspects, as a summary: The first is the principle of human dignity, which includes not only those who are sentenced, but also those who are the victims and those who are close to them. It derives from the principle of humanity of penalties and the principle of minimum intervention: the principle of humanity must ensure adequate conditions of habitability in prisons and the maintenance of the social ties of prisoners; the principle of minimum intervention implies that, as far as possible, the sanctioning character in responses to harmful conduct must be avoided. The second principle on which we will base our model is that of reducing prison use. The system should provide judges with the tools to facilitate compliance with this principle. However, the effective implementation of the same implies a strong pedagogical work with society. Another principle is that of resocialisation at Community level. The model proposed here implies a large presence of regular public services in all prison relations, which significantly reinforces the criterion of normalization and community orientation; the community must participate in the articulation of policies of criminal execution both within prisons and in the processes of resocialization abroad. In addition, this principle implies insisting on the need for prison to be opened up to the outside world and to allow external life to be more focused on the inner life, expanding the possibilities of contacts and programmes with social organizations and ensuring the means for rehabilitating convicted persons. Gender mainstreaming is another principle that we will adopt in the model. The fight for equality between women and men has many areas in which to work, which have different conditions and characteristics. Law 4/2005 on Equality of Women and Men, adopted by the Basque Parliament on 18 February, and Organic Law 3/2007 on Equality of Women and Men, are normative references that oblige any administrative organization to apply the gender approach in its internal relations and with citizens. The same situation of women in prison and its high patriarchal character make it difficult to apply these principles and rules. Therefore, our model should pay particular attention to actions aimed at women in prison, as well as to ensure adequate gender training of the staff attending them. The fifth principle is the incorporation of a restorative perspective. The aim is to balance the concepts of reparation, accountability and participation of the affected persons, as a cross-cutting aspect, with the entire model of criminal execution. The participation of victims, victims and communities is one of the keys to the restorative model that we advocate; it is a model that we are applying within the framework of our competences and that we will extend to the new context, once the transfer is implemented. The sixth and final principle is that of the integration of public policies; it is an essential principle for compliance with the previous ones. It involves integrating the coordination of the different public services provided by the different institutions (departments of the Basque Government involved, parliaments, municipalities, the administration of justice, law schools, etc. and other social actors) for the execution of sentences and the achievement of social reintegration. But I am now going to describe to you what we believe should be the strategic objectives that should be proposed by our prison model. We are on the basis that the use of imprisonment in prisons should be the extreme option and should be used only in cases where there is no alternative. It is a mistake to think that the severity of sentences and imprisonment reduce crime, insecurity and criminal recidivism. On the contrary, we believe that creating preventive and reintegration services are investments that help create a safer and more integrated society. Our own legislation and European recommendations lead us to that path. We have international benchmarks, such as Finland, which, through consensual and sustained policies over time, has managed to substantially reduce the prison rate and recidivism. Alternative measures to the prison had been used, and adequate public services had been provided. The first strategic objective is to ensure that the rate of prisoners is below 40 per 100,000 inhabitants. In view of this objective, the first consideration we must take into account is that the ratio of prisoners to inhabitants depends on the Criminal Code and the sentences handed down by the judges. Those of us who are going to run the prisons and, above all, the sentences and measures in an open environment and in semi-freedom, must seek means and a comprehensive system of reintegration, which gives guarantees to the judges to issue measures in an open environment. In any case, a prison rate such as the proposal will have to be achieved progressively. The data as of December 2018 tells us that in the autonomous community almost 28% of the population is in third grade treatment, while in 2003 it was 11%. This evolution has been possible thanks to the powerful Basque reinsertion network, something we will try to strengthen. The second strategic objective we set ourselves is that at least 40% of those in prison should be in an open system. The commitment to open schemes is clearly consistent with Spanish legislation and European recommendations. They have a clear resocializing orientation and establish the principle of individualization of the execution of prison sentences, so that each person will have to serve the sentence in the regime that is most beneficial for his or her social reintegration. An increase in the number of persons serving probation will be accompanied by an increase in the number of the various regimes of open enforcement, which, according to the various analyses carried out, will contribute to the reduction of the prison rate and of recidivism. Various studies have confirmed that those who end their probation sentence have a recidivism of 15.7%, while those who do not accede to this regime are recidivised by 51%. The last strategic objective is to ensure that the recidivism of convicted persons is less than 30%. I have already commented on the benefits for non-recidivism of the open regime. To achieve this, we must work on two lines: on the one hand, by strengthening the Basque reintegration network, and on the other hand, we have a third sector with extensive experience and commitment to social reintegration; and, on the other, by building a system of prison detention that works intensively with the inmates, from the time of their stay in the prison, helping them to be able to finish their sentence on an open and conditional basis. To achieve these objectives, we will work comprehensively on three axes at a time: to enhance penalties and measures in an open environment; to build a Basque reinsertion network, and to direct prison detention to reintegration. These three lines are supplemented to the extent that persons who will be subject to prison management may be in some or other regime of deprivation or limitation of liberty. For an effective policy, the following are identified as tools to be developed within our area of competence: First. Individualized support, with special attention to specific situations of mental health, addictions and foreigners, it could include other circumstances that require a specialized approach, without forgetting the transversal perspective of gender. Also highlight two actions that have to do with individualized treatment: On the one hand, the approach to mental health situations. The data we have tell us that 50% of the prison population has psychological problems, and 10% have psychiatric illnesses. We will propose specific psychological and psychiatric treatment programmes within prison, so that we can facilitate access for these people to the third degree situation and to activities in an open environment. The other situation that we are particularly concerned about is that of mothers with children under the age of three who are in prison. We believe that the possibilities provided for in the Prison Regulation should be used to create dependent units where mothers can live with their children. We will also empower these dependent units for young people and drug addicts. The second tool will be the planning of material and human resources, allowing for such individualized treatment. The third one. Training of staff to reorient their work towards the resocialization of the sentenced person, with special attention to gender-based training. The fourth would be institutional coordination. The resocializing orientation requires the provision of public services, as is already being done, the greater coordination of the areas of justice, health, education, work, employment, social services and security, as well as of all institutional levels, from municipalities to deputies, the Basque Government and the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The fifth would be the integration of the third sector into the reintegration network. Sixth, the strengthening of cooperation services with justice, the empowerment of the Restorative Justice Service, along with the care of victims and, in particular, the Basque Penis Management Service, which we are resizing to act in a coordinated manner, to assess the possibilities for a convicted person to be able to serve his or her sentence in an open environment before going to prison and to offer such an assessment to the court, so that he or she can decide more effective forms of execution of sentences for reintegration, which do not entail deprivation of liberty, when permitted by existing legislation. In this way, we want to promote more widely the application of work for the benefit of the community and the substitution of condemnation for specific treatments, such as mental health or drug abuse. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. I have informed them of the general guidelines that we want to apply once the transfer of prison facilities is made firm. As I told you at the beginning, these are our purposes: what do we want to do with the transfer? Do we have a clear reason for what we want it for? Basically, to improve and advance in line with the Constitution, the current law and the European guidelines. That is, to reinforce the resocializing character of the prison. Our approach is aimed at people, those who have committed crimes, their victims, people in the public sphere in the third sector who are key in this work, and society in general, so that they can appreciate that a rehabilitative policy is an investment aimed at achieving a better, more integrated and safer society. I hope that they will successfully conclude this debate and reach agreements that will enable us to enrich the model. From what I have heard so far, I think we agree on quite a few points; that is why I ask you to focus on what unites us. In the Department of Labour and Justice, we are fully convinced that a model such as ours requires broad political consensus, consensus that will allow it to transcend time and the different conditions of governance that can be given. For our part, we will continue to deepen and work on the line that I have told you today, and I hope that, as soon as possible, I will be able to provide you with an elaborate and firm document, which will be open to further input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u14	Thank you, Mrs. San José. We're going over to the answering shift. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u15	Good afternoon and thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs. Counsellor, I'm afraid you're a gero hau. Hori askotan isandako gauza beat da. Three years since you said you were going to work to bring us a proposal, and you brought us this that you just told us. Madam Counsellor, the proposal you have brought us is as green, as green, as the seats in Parliament. Exactly the same as green. And I'm not surprised that Mr Erkoreka, in that negotiation he had to make, put it last, put it in 2020, because of course... There's no proposal. So, I think that's a problem. Look, he has said something to us in what I agree with and which, moreover, seems to me to be important and interesting to highlight: the degree of consensus that exists for this transfer to come and the importance that society gives it are very important. 68% consider it positive; 11 consider it negative. In that 11, as well, there are some people who have a different thought, like what we heard here today in the morning from some of the parliamentarians who have spoken. But, look, you said I don't know how many times the word 'diagnostic', I don't know how many times 'analyzing' and 'contrast', I don't know how many times 'contacts'... It has brought us nothing in particular about what they are going to do and how they are going to do it. Nothing. When you've told us about principles, you've told us about generalities, you've made statements in general, you've told us things that I don't know if you've taken them from the Prison Rules, the narrative they do at first, where they say everything you've told us: individualized, reinsertion... It's just that it was practically taking that thing and moving it here. And he told us about strategic goals, but he didn't tell us how they're going to do them or how he's going to achieve them. He told us there must be a report. By the way, where's the report? We asked you about the report on 8 February and we still have no report... Look, the system of this Parliament makes the text that has been discussed, and that we have talked about absolutely everyone here, Euskal Herria Bildu. Euskal Herria Bildu has brought here a text that, by the way, we gave to you... Copying is bad too, because you've taken our text and made it a sort of entanglement of things; but, of course, what happens is that when you copy, normally, the best is the original. And that's what happened here. And it gives me the impression that today the government is Euskal Herria Bildu. It is Euskal Herria Bildu who brings a concrete proposal for the transfer. More than 100 –120 we almost have – and that's what we all discuss. And the government that should have been the first, should have brought the proposal, should have given it to us; it brings us absolutely nothing. I told her I was going to listen to her very carefully, and I listened to her very carefully, and I have to express my absolute disappointment with what I have heard. Although we generally agree on things, but in reality everything is something that evaporates, disappears, without concreteness, that we cannot grasp and that we cannot contrast or do anything. I hope that the proposals we make will give you practical clues, how to do things and how to put them into practice. Mrs. Llanos, look,'make the law, make the trap,' and you cheat, look you know for a while, you know for a while traps; but, look, in the traps you change the laws, and I'll explain to you. Look, when you make internal regulations that nobody knows about sick prisoners, when you make instructions that only the officials are given, you change everything that says that law and prison regulations so wonderful that you have Spain and you make changes to that, in fact, through the back door, violating the rights of people in prison. And that's day-to-day practice. So don't talk to me so much about laws and how good they are, because you change them when you want them; you have done it during the term you have had. But also, look, you tell me: you can do everything with what we have in force, but here there is nothing you can do. Look, there's an example I'm going to give you. In relation to that magnificent overtreatment that has been... I've looked at the statistics: More than 150 prisoners died in Spanish state prisons. More than 10% of prisoners in solitary confinement. More than 1,000 people in first grade, first phase... There is no protocol signed with the University of the Basque Country for studies, and the degree progressions that you tell me are not going to be able to do here, are done there according to an issue that has not much to do with criteria, neither law nor general principles. That's what happens. And look, you tell me about this plenary and you tell me: they wanted to give you transcendence. Of course I do. We wanted to give it a great deal of importance, so we brought it to its full. But he's not the only one we brought here. Here we have brought a full on demographics and family policies – by the way, the only in this House, the only in this House, Euskal Herria Bildu, I think, as I am mistaken, that we have brought full monographs. If you are so concerned about other things and feel so important, bring them in, I am happy to discuss with you what you want. But, of course, we bring it because it is very important and important for us and, according to the Department of Justice survey, it is also important for society. Look, if they have everything so well, how bad they do it. How bad they do it, because it criticizes them absolutely everyone. It is that they criticize you all social organizations, they criticize you the judges in their judicial decisions: they criticize you all the world. A little more humility, than Spain doesn't do everything right. The Spanish laws are not the panacea, and here what we are dealing with is, with what we are going to have, do better, to make it different, because it is our obligation and it is a need of people in prison. Mrs. Castelo, look, we don't want to change the penal model. Well, we do, but we're aware we can't. We know we can't. I know, I know... I have already said, moreover, in my previous speech, that what I would like was for that to happen and for that to be done. But, look, what I want to change is the management and treatment model, which you said. And that's what I'm proposing the measures for. And I agree with you in many of the things you have raised; but, of course, I do not agree with one: Look, my proposal is for all prisoners, for all prisoners, for all persons in prison, who have roots or who are from the Basque Autonomous Community. All: the ones outside and the ones here! Not just for the ones who are here... Because, look, I have a client who's in Topas, Deusto, with a four-year sentence. Why does he have to be in Topas and can't be in Basauri? So that his mother, who is a widow lady... No, no, but that's what I'm asking. This transfer can be done through the decrees that we are proposing, which the Catalan Generalitat has done. That can be done. He did it and he did it, even with all kinds of prisoners. I know it firsthand; it can be done. And that's what we're proposing, and that's where I disagree with you. And, well, that would be a shame, because why are some going to have fewer rights and fewer opportunities than others? Look, you came out here with the Alvarez Encyclopedia – or with the book Xabiertxo, if it had been in Basque – that book where everything came from. You have come here again to tell us that the Socialist Party has done everything, knows everything and has everything perfectly well done, but you have 45 proposals, and your advisor no... 45 with the Basque Nationalist Party and its advisor no model, no role, no document, that will already bring it. For this is what I have seen of the things we have spoken here. Mr. Zorrilla, look, the truth is that you have somewhat disappointed me in your intervention, because it has been very similar to others I have heard more times. You, and you every time we talk about transfer things, you have to give me the txartel that I do it right or I do it wrong and that, well, it's about time you guys came because you guys first, because it's... Man, that's all right. That's all right. It's 2019. And, look, stop being so belligerent with Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal, so vehemently, and bring proposals. Of course, the problem is that it brings the 45 they have there and they have a problem, they don't have others and it looks like they don't have anything better. Look, if you've been asking for transfers for 40 years, either you haven't been very quick or you've gone through the shortened procedure in this country, which is shortened but sometimes lasts 17 years. You've done a rather complicated job of explaining; you've taken a long time, didn't care or didn't want to. What I see here is that the problem is that there was no interest, and that made you not so much demand this. And one last mention of the question of self-criticism. Look, self-criticism we have made: a few days ago even Etxerat made self-criticism. I'd like everyone to do the same. And when we talk about the rights of prisoners, when we talk about the inspiring principles, we start in paragraph 4 of our report, and we talk about prisoners, first of all, because it is that prison policy, management and treatment are directed at people in prison; that is why we talk first about prisoners and we divide. And we don't cheat on anyone: we don't have to cheat; we have very clear what we want, why we want it and why we ask it, and we bring it here to discuss it with everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u16	Thank you, madam. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u17	Thank you again, Madam President. And good morning, again, everyone too. I agree with you, Mrs Goirizelaia: between the original and the copy, society always stays with the original, and that I have defended many times. But you... To me, it seems absolutely legitimate for you to propose this full monograph; I have told you what is at the heart of your concerns. Then I'll tell you, anyway, also why you chose... I mean, you don't want to talk about prison policy, because there are different instruments; you want to use this Parliament as a speaker, because we are on an electoral campaign and, of course, this is one of your issues... Not prison policy; I have already told you: you have wrapped it up in packaging, as if you were just talking about prison policy or as if you were the only ones – and then I will also refer to Mr Zorrilla – who are concerned about prison policy. And I tell you again what I told you before: see the movie Why do you call it love when you mean sex? You, I am convinced, because the first two of the measures are those which are, are, the rapprochement of the prisoners; but, then, the prisoners of political motivation, which I say to you again: there are no prisoners of political motivation in Spain; there are no prisoners of political motivation in Spain. Even their relatives want to see them as victims of State policy. Those are his intentions. Why? Because you have used this Parliament today as a stage for an election campaign. We're campaigning, and you're campaigning, Mrs. Goirizelaia. And Bildu has put himself in the form of an election campaign, and you have used this Parliament, the speaker of this Parliament, of this plenary, for your election campaign, and here you are trying to get him in there, but I am convinced that, as has been said in other scenarios, the first measures are going to be those of the ETA prisoners, who I repeat, are not prisoners of political motivation; they are in prison for murder, for extortion, for kidnapping... And you talk about respect for human rights, respect for the victims. Did ETA prisoners respect human rights? Do they respect them at this moment, when they keep silent, preventing more than 300 attacks from being investigated? That is what the Ombudsman, to whom you allude on some occasions and on others you are obviating, because, as has been said here, when it suits you, as with the courts, it is phenomenal, when it does not give you the reason, then we have already quarantined your opinions... But the Ombudsman considers that this causes inhuman suffering to the victims, contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, you who are so full of your mouths talking about human rights. And you're talking about competition, and I want to refer to... And they talked about the situation in the prisons. If there are violations of the law, report them. You say that, by means of directives, instructions, the law is breached, that non-compliance is, of course, denounced. There is a hierarchy, so I told you that you were not going to be able to do it here... even if we have the competence, it is not going to be possible to do it, because I do say it: you seem to be the ones who had the Council of Justice, you are the ones who have presented the document and about that document that we are discussing; in that I am right. But they could not do so here, because general regulations, I have already told you, could not be done. And you're talking about if we had here... of the data in the Spanish prisons; well, here appeared the Catalan officials, what good, that if they took a walk... Come on, because, of course, they came here, they came from guests, no one could..., no one answered them; then, they could paint an idyllic situation, which was what they did when they also had criticisms. I told him when they showed up. They have the criticisms of Catalan lawyers, who are saying that there is no transparency in Catalan prisons, that there is a differential treatment given to foreign prisoners, that some cannot appear before Parliament in order to be able to tell their situation; but I will tell you that there is a Catalan prison, Brians 1, which is one of the Catalan prisons that has been most monitored by human rights entities. In this prison, a minimum of three people have been killed in solitary confinement in the last four years. According to figures from the Department of Justice, four people have committed suicide in Catalan prisons between January and June 2018, and 11 more have died from other causes. Over the past 10 years, 68 people have taken their lives in some Catalan prison. 2013 has been the most deadly year of the last decade, when 62 people died in Catalan prisons for various reasons, such as diseases, overdose, suicide, accident or aggression... There they have the competition, in Catalonia. Has that prevented prison deaths? Did you stop him? With regard to the... Well, then, here the counselor has come to say what are the principles that inspire her policy, and so has the Basque Nationalist Party, which are resocialization and insertion. What does that mean? That the Spanish prison system does not advocate reintegration and resocialization? Does the Socialist Party share that? Because prison institutions have for years been the responsibility of the different governments of Spain, shared or alternated by the Socialist Party and the People's Party. When the Socialist Party has been at the head of the prison institutions, was rehabilitation and resocialization not the first objective for it? And in relation... I didn't understand the Basque Nationalist Party very well, when he told me that I didn't, that there wasn't, I don't know... that I had an interest in this subject that had been demonstrated in my speech. Well, look, I've divided my speech as I've considered it relevant. In the first one, I have already told you that I have highlighted the characteristics of the Spanish prison system, precisely because through EH Bildu's document what has been tried is to put that whole system into sulfation. So, I said that in many of the issues that seemed a novelty in that document, such as the characteristics that the prison system had to have, we already had them in Spain. We have our proposals, which we are going to present. We have participated in all the committees there have been, and, of course, we believe that this is an issue to be addressed. And you were talking to me about vomiting populism. I imagine that this vomiting populism that you are referring to is to push through the reviewable permanent prison, and I have to tell you that I am absolutely in favour of the reviewable permanent prison, absolutely in favour. It seems to me that the answers to be given by the rule of law, that the answer to be given by criminal law, must be in line with the conduct. And at greater severity of conduct, greater pain. And you'll have to take into account a person's ability to resocialize. And there are people who aren't able to be... For many years they may be in prison, but they are still not resocialized. Look, do you know what I think of vomiting? That Laura Luelmo's killer was on the street, was on the street and that made her murder, that she could murder her again. That does seem to me, of course. And I believe that the permanent prison that can be reviewed is not revenge. It's justice. And you who say so much that you listen to society, and to the victims, it seems that what the victims think in that sense and what they think in more than 3 million people, because in this case, it doesn't have to be heard. But let's talk about competition, Mr. Zorrilla. Because I already knew you were going to pull the competition. With the current regulation, I have already told you before, the Basque Government, parliaments and municipalities have issues that they can achieve, and you were with me in Zaballa, and you witnessed two issues that put us on the table, two issues that are the responsibility of competences that are currently being exercised in Euskadi. One, a prisoner over 90, who cannot go out on the street, because there is no residential social resource to which they can take him. Two, one cancer patient, three quarters of the same. And in both cases, it depends on institutions that are governed by the Basque Nationalist Party and over which they can exercise competition. I have told you: having competence doesn't always mean doing it better. And for a long time, you didn't claim the competition. They weren't interested. They weren't interested... They were interested in prison competition. What's going on is they're doing well now. In this plenary it is good for you to join in the car of the mantra of the confrontation with Madrid, of the anger with Madrid, of that victimism that you want to do, of continuous demand of the competences, hence we do it better, of your own reading, yes, Mr Zorrilla, of your own reading of the transfer of competences, of the reading that nationalism makes of how they have to be interpreted, and here we had a debate on Social Security last week, in which it made it very clear. That, of course, you, before the motion you have quoted from the Senate, have to tear your clothes, say that it says what it doesn't say, because to you what it did, what it did to you, what it did to you, it took the demons, it was the presence of the State in Euskadi. You want to completely and absolutely annihilate the state, because you go one step further, you demand competition, but you go one step further... What you want is independence. What happens is clear; I have already told you: original and copy. The original calls for independence, always and at all times and times; the copy, asks for it depends on where we are and when we are, in electoral campaign, truth, is no longer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u19	...that request for independence is no longer so clear. I am finished now, because what we are proposing is that we consider this to be an important debate and that it is probably a debate that could have been conducted in a much more calm and useful way in a committee. For I believe that we all have to contribute; we have all been present in the committees, and we have heard the representatives. We have all seen their contributions, and we have all also heard the contributions of the Basque Government in this regard. And we are all going to put forward motions for resolutions that will improve treatment. Because, of course, the Group of the European People's Party is very clear, not only because it is a constitutional principle, as I have said, set out in article 25, but because custodial sentences must be aimed at resocialization and reintegration. They must turn men and women who have had just penalties for the commission of crimes into persons who renounce that commission of crimes, who repent of that commission of crimes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u21	...and that they are in a position that, when they return to freedom, they do not have to reoffend and can live in society, freely. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u23	Mrs Goirizelaia, Mrs Goirizelaia, who has given you here an attack of jealousy, which has bothered you that the Socialists know about this and not just you in this House. Man... Let's see, we already consider it understood, even if it's only because of the number of customers you work with and are with and because I think you have a sincere interest in this matter, but it's not the only one, it's not the only one. So, of course, it bothers you that you advise when you intervene or that the Socialist Group when you intervene agrees with you on objectives, principles and rights and, then, ours, bah, is nothing. What a basic thing! Ours comes from a deep reflection, as – of course – yours will proceed. Now, that is true, my proposals, the proposals that we put forward with the Basque Nationalist group, and that we will then have the opportunity to comment on them, do not go to the weight. It's 44 – I think so, 44 – yours How many? Hundred-and-a-half? Ours have subject, verb and preached; check theirs, because the cut and glue hurt a lot, it hurts a lot, and they have gone a lot because they had forgotten one basic thing, and it was that in their document they had not put neither the principles nor the objectives nor the issues of rights and so on. They had entered directly into what was at the heart of their question, because their first steps, beyond that we worry... You don't understand me – I don't understand us on many issues, this is another one, eh –: What I have said is that we must not deceive and that we must focus the debate, although then we must change with some intervention by Mr Uria, because I do not know whether we have focused the debate very much, because with this transfer we are not transferring the capacity to change the prison policy that is being carried out in the Spanish State. We have the capacity to manage prison institutions with regard to fulfilling the resocialization function. And it is convenient, just as the journalist had difficulty understanding who makes the laws, who interprets them and who executes them, it is also convenient for parliamentarians to make an effort of clarity and not mix things up, because that disturbs and wrongs. And what I have said is that the transfer is going to allow us to work with the population in Euskadi, which is currently in Euskadi and which subsequently arrives in Euskadi, and I have also told you that we have expressed our position in favour of rooting where there is linkage. I've already told you that, what I'm telling you is that you don't cheat, because what we're not going to have because we have the transfer is a massive transfer of those prisoners that you care about and occupy. See if they're worried and take care of what the counselor has told you – but as she doesn't listen – that we don't even have any prisons for first grade; one of her measures is what we have to do with first graders: if we don't have, we don't have, we don't have! But since it doesn't matter what we have or not, because you think about what you're thinking, it's a little bit what there is. Is the proposal so green? For I do not know whether it is green or not; but, of course, reflected as his, shared as his, though it hurts him. If you believe that the principles, objectives, rights and strategic axes are general, then the truth, shut down and let's go, because I thought we were in a serious debate. And the truth, when someone tells him that the report is in a phase of contrast and that at the moment it is also in a phase of contributions from the department itself, at least he should listen to it, at the very least he should understand it and, at the very least, he should ask for reflection and serenity to close a good model. The truth is that I don't care much about who copies and what: you have copied and much in your proposal. Did the others copy? Of course, of whom? Of those who really work in this field day by day and have transferred to us what are the problems they face, which, by the way, none of them have transferred to me that the problem is whether the officials speak in Basque or work in Basque... They told me about the mental illness, in a very intense way; they told me about the situation of women, in a very intense way; they told me about the problems of drug addiction and drug trafficking, both legal and illegal, inside the prison and they told us what measures we could put in place. And they have also told us what limitations we have for the guarantee procedure that exists at the moment in the Spanish prison model. That's what you heard, like me, when we went to a prison, and there I didn't hear you contradict him or even throw away those arguments that were telling him, and besides, everything – I say – that is not bad in the current prison system. Because you, in your proposals – in which you are going to defend us later and those you have been advancing this morning – tell me about maintaining therapeutic units of the current prison system, respect modules, productive work centers for improving employability... All that already exists in the model. That is why, when you say that you want to transform from the root, I do not accompany you in that approach. I don't want to transform from the root, I want to transform, change, innovate, modify and improve, but I don't make a shallow table of everything that comes, because I neither demonize nor exalt it. I simply want to take advantage of it and believe – as society believes – that it could be carried out, from the principles that inspire us Socialists and that we surely share with many people in a sincere way, a better management of prison policy in the Basque Country, in prison institutions. And we share that the closed environment has to be the last resource, and that we want the open environment. But there is no better prison model, Mrs Goirizelaia, than one in which there are no prisoners, because there are no persons who have committed crimes. And you, for many years, could do much to keep all those inmates from coming in, but you didn't want to. See if you still don't want to recognize what you have to recognize, which continues to call you "politically motivated prisoners." No, Mrs. Goirizelaia. They're not political prisoners. They're murderers, extortioners, kidnappers... That's what they are. They're not political prisoners. And you cannot tell either those of the People's Party or those of the Socialist Party, because we have lived for many years with those rights that you now defend for the imprisoned population, for we have not had them. We had no guarantee of our right to life; we were not alone on the street. And I have experienced that very much in the first person and, when things affect, it costs. And we are making important efforts to be able also to get into a bubble sufficiently pure and sincere, to move forward on those issues in which we believe we must move forward together in Euskadi as well. Therefore, weak favor you do you with these speeches on. I do believe and will share it, because you said that things have changed – you said in your speech at the beginning. There is a timetable: end 2020. Even so, you didn't care; you wanted the full monograph. And he wanted it in full and he didn't want it in committee, because he doesn't care what we're gonna do next. There has not been a single effort, and I have been speaking for two days now with the rest of the parliamentary groups, not a single effort, to try to find out what the position of both groups was for the motions for resolutions, even though we had all had a very good intention to start work last week – well, we started this one. Not one, because they weren't interested in this. They are interested in propaganda and that you are the defenders of that collective which is theirs, only theirs and nothing but theirs. For man, we here, the truth, as we did not come to deceive; we came with a debate of sincerity and usefulness... We will continue to work with those groups who want to work in order to bring to the Department of Labour and Justice those principles, those guidelines, which we believe the prison model has to have to be developed in Euskadi, when the transfer arrives. Your goal, if it's another, then stay out of it, that we don't need them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Podemos, Monsieur Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u25	Bakartxo Tejeria, parliamentary colleagues. Well, well, well; you don't have to swallow every time you're in front of a microphone. We have read all the motions for resolutions of all groups, and the level of consensus is very high. It's not that I like to seek consensus over things. It's just that people are waiting for what comes out of here. It is not necessary to exaggerate the note. Welcome to the councillor's proposals. We just want a document. But if we agree; thank you. There is a greater degree of consensus among all political groups, including the PP, if you read the 20 motions for resolutions they have tabled. Sure, if you want to talk about other things, that's already... Is it not a problem of Basque society?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Everyone is arguing that security is one of the problems. We are talking about how security is managed: more police, punitive penal codes, more prisoners and prisoners, above the averages of crimes and their severity... We've got 16,000 cops. 5,171 of the State, Forces and Bodies of State Security, 8,000 ertzainas, 3,000 municipalities, 750 per 100,000 inhabitants; we are only won by Montenegro, Ukraine and Poland. A little view I've taken. An even more punitive Penal Code, more permanent prisons, more prisoners, more prisoners, what exactly do we want? Comrade Llanos, everyone has the right to make a new life. I don't understand this from the permanent prison; I don't quite understand this from the life sentences. I do not quite understand this from the legal frameworks that try to cushion the autonomous management capabilities that we can have. It is no longer because the Constitution says so in article 25.2. If we are not clear among all and among all that all people have the right to remake their lives, to organize their ideas, to organize their rights in another way, I do not know what we are talking about. I believe that the people of Bildu – and Jone among them – have made an organizational effort, so that this debate will arrive relatively mature in plenary, and have also made – read the propositions they have made – an effort in organizing their ideas. I'm sure of that. Like the PSOE, the PNV and the PP itself, if one reads part of the PP's proposals, they are part of the discussions that we have had in the Committee on Justice and Labour. It's strictly true. So, what's going on? Well, my opinion is – and I finish already – that we have a problem with security problems, with security management, with the problems of criminalization, with prisons that are constantly filled with people, with a Penal Code that needs to be reformed, without any doubt. And we know perfectly well, Alexia, partner Alexia, we know what the General Prison Law is and what the Penal Law is and what the Penal Code is, we know. But you don't have to remember, because we don't even have the transfer. Do not constantly remind us of the tops that Basques and Basques have to organize our own coexistence. We know we're going to have problems. But look, when the political leaders from Catalonia came to our committee and began to explain measures that they had done, not only in management, but in infrastructure, in the organization of degrees. I ask them: it says degrees, degrees of prisoners and prisoners, that is General Penitentiary Law; well, we have, and no one has told us no. There is room for manoeuvre; there is political will, and we only lack a sufficient degree of political consensus. I insist, we know the constitutional frameworks, more or less. Constitutional frameworks that won't always be the same. And for that everyone has to think about what to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u27	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Well, I'll start with Mrs. Llanos, by order of shift. You've misunderstood me, and several things besides: I don't know if I've expressed myself badly or the one that's thick is you. First of all, I was telling him about the interest on the subject... I have not told you anything about your intervention, about the approach of your intervention. Each Member knows, logically, how to raise his or her intervention. He was critical of the People's Party's interest in discussing the issue in two respects. Firstly, because he criticized the proposer, in this case EH Bildu, that this was not an issue of interest to society, according to what you interpret. That was where... to the contrary, for you, there are other more priority issues that have more interest. And I also told him about the interest of the comrades of the People's Group during his speech, who were three, I think, a third of the group; I am not going to make an easy joke. Secondly, he says that he has not been interested in the PNV; well, that is his appreciation. Check the files, check the session logs. Here we have referred to proposals, initiatives; review the government agreement. I... we're clear about the positioning of the PP, that of the PNV, and that of the PP as well. In 1995, here in this House, they voted in favour of the priorities for compliance with the Statute and one of them was the transfer of prisons, and we have now seen the motion, which we supposedly misinterpreted, which was voted in the Senate at the request of the PP, and it seems that it is returning to the position of the People's Alliance and National Union, when the Statute in 79, which they said understood that the autonomy of peoples was a threat to the unity of Spain. Maybe the ones who have to turn that around are you. We are very clear what our position is and what it has always been. Thirdly, he spoke of 'vomiting populism'. I have spoken, in any case, of punitive populism, and I was saying from there, 'punishive', that in some cases it may be vomiting, but it is the punitive populism to which I referred. And, of course, you may deny it, but it is clear that the successive criminal reforms that have taken place with the governments of the People's Party have been regressive and have led to a tightening of penalties. And that toughening of the penalties is a little bit inconclusive with the approach we are taking by most groups in this House, believing that prison is a criminal sanction that needs to be used in a residual way. So, what you do is give priority to penal sanctions, marginalizing alternative measures. And of course the permanent prison can be reviewed, because I believe it is the harshest betrayal of the principles of reintegration and human dignity. You said that it is not revenge, that it is justice; man, the law of heel could also be regarded as justice and that of the death penalty applied in the United States, for Americans, is justice. But is that justice fair? He says you have to listen to what society thinks to take it into account. Of course. Of course we have to listen to society. It's very different from hot regulation or just listening to it when we're interested and, on the basis of that, trying to get electoral interests and electoral revenues. On the other hand, regarding Euskal Herria Bildu, Mrs Goirizelaia said that Mr Erkoreka put it last, in 2020. Taking advantage of the fact that you are here, I believe that Mr Erkoreka has not put the last one on you, because the PNV-PSOE government agreement for this legislature sets out the priorities and one of the priorities is the transfer of prison services. Mrs Goirizelaia said – which she does not seem to be interested in what I am going to say – that EH Bildu's text has been the central element of the debate. Naturally, the proponents have been you; then you have published a document, to which you have even given form of book, programme or whatever you want to call it, but that does not mean that you look like the government; then we will see the motions for resolutions in the afternoon. He says that more than 100 proposals, he told Mrs. Castelo. This is not about numbers, it is not about quantity but about quality, and we will also see whether the 115 that Euskal Herria Bildu has proposed are more coherent, more supportive, than the 44 that have been presented by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. And he said copying is bad. Of course copying is bad. In this life everything is made up, and the good is copied. But it is bad to copy especially when it is done wrong; then, that is the climax of the misconception. I had a fellow at the university who photocopied the books in small size, and then suspended the subject. He suspended the subject; i.e., he copied and copied incorrectly, i.e., he suspended. He says what the counselor has raised is a lack of concreteness. I do not know if what you have proposed – and then we will see you – perhaps exceeds in concrete terms what is intended, except that you intend to exercise government, a faculty that Basque society has not, for the time being, attributed to you, and let us hope that you will not attribute to them. So you have a role of impulse and control, as a parliamentary group, which in this case is to call for guidelines to be taken into consideration, but you are putting forward very concrete measures, as we will see later. He said that my speech, because it has disappointed him, that it has been similar to others. As normal, you have consistency, and you will not change your mind in either 79 or 2019 or... If it's consistent, keep what you think is right. And it's clear what they want: I'm clear what they want. You can wear it as you like and are in your rightful right, but there is a document, as we have said, with clear priorities. The first point, rapprochement of prisoners; second block, measures to avoid exceptionality with politically motivated prisoners. As I said before, the situation of women, measures with victims, education, health... That's clear. The statements are obvious; here's one of yours: "Bildu urgently transfers prisons to speed up the approach of prisoners." Those are Bildu's statements. In the memoir, you wanted to focus the debate on what, in the prisoners, their goal was the prisoners. And the election program that he also mentioned; I have EH Bildu's election program for this legislature, and point five says, "Assumption of prison powers." With this, I think we all agree, less – it seems – the PP. But then he says: "The stay of Basque prisoners in Basque prisons must bring with it a new alternative prison policy, in execution of the prison competition." No, no... The transfer has to come to Euskadi, and will be managed to apply to all persons deprived of their liberty who are in Basque prisons and also, as I said before, to ETA prisoners and prisoners. Finally, he said that ongitorris bother him, welcome to what we have been saying other groups for many years, but that's what there is. Everyone has their past, and we don't deny ours. Besides, we're proud of him. He said we were... that we have been asking for transfers for 40 years, because, yes, for consistency, we have been asking for transfers for 40 years. I don't know how many of you are wearing: I have already said, since the 2016 election program. So, if you had supported our request for transfers, we would probably have made more progress, and if the phenomenon of terrorism had not been, probably even more. He says about the transfer system. Well, there's a written answer from the governance adviser, to his question, which explains to him both jurisprudentially and practically the mechanism of convening the joint commission, and it's not up to us; it's up to the Spanish government. He therefore clearly knows what the procedure is. As for the self-criticism, well, it's gone a little bit for... He says Etxerat has already made self-criticism. I do not know, Etxerat is not here; it is not a parliamentary group at the moment. Welcome to Etxerat's self-criticism, and we value it positively. But I am referring to Euskal Herria Bildu and, more specifically, more specifically, because within Euskal Herria Bildu there are groups that have done so, to the left abertzale, of which you are an obvious representative. So, I was saying we're... Let us forget the past; we do not forget the past. He said we're in 2019, and we don't forget the past, because izan zirelako gara eta gacalako izango dira. Finally, with regard to the Commissioner's presentation, I must appreciate the work that has been done and offer her the willingness and support of our parliamentary group to carry it forward, because we believe that it is a well-oriented work and to be able to provide a better service to people deprived of their liberty, which I believe is what we all want in this House in the end. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now the whole company stops short until 1:30 p.m. The solutions are to register at the General Secretary of the Parliament until 1:30 p.m. Nahikoa, 13:30ak art? 1:30? And until 3:30 p.m. plenary. Hala bata... It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twelve. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-eight o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u29	Good afternoon. We'll go back to the meeting. The members of the legislature will begin in order presented by the resolution proposal; they will be back in 20 minutes to defend it. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u30	Mrs. Tejeria, to the president, to the council, to all the rest of the evening. Very briefly, I will comment on what we have done with the abundant proposals made by the various groups and what has been the spirit that has characterized us. The truth is that the first thing to thank is the effort that each and every group has made to try to reach agreements on almost every proposition. Our attitude is: with the 115 of Bildu, we will pose no to 5 of the proposals of the 115, and one we have negotiated. With the PP, at 4 we will say no, and 8 abstentions. With the government, with Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists, we have made 10 abstentions and 2 transactions, and we have not said no to any. The general spirit that characterizes Elkarrekin We can reach agreements with the five groups, since – I insist on the subject, I have already said it three times today – this is a matter of consensus, it is what is expected of us. We're not fooling around the way the weather is. We have therefore made an effort to reach maximum agreement with all groups. I will briefly explain some issues of no, which seems strong, with some political forces. In Bildu we have said yes, we will vote yes, at 115, less than 4 of them, we say no, because the 28, 29, 30 and 31 raise issues that, in our opinion, are in broader, more transversal, deeper and more concrete agreements; in particular, in agreements of this Basque Parliament of 2018, of 29 July 2017 and of 2 November 2017, on exactly the same subject. It would therefore appear to be a redundancy, and we do not think it appropriate to put it as a motion for a resolution. In paragraph 18, we have said that it is not because it proposes a decree for rapprochement. And we say, zertarako? Why a decree? The rapprochement of prisoners must be done and done. What does a decree need to do, we ask. Well, we didn't get it right, and we said no or we're going to say no. We have a problem with PP. We see that they have made an effort, and that they have actually made 20 proposals for compromise, for resolution, of a very general and very formal nature. I am grateful for the effort of the Nerea Llanos parliamentarian. The issue is that it is not the Joint Transfer Commission that is discussing. The joint commission manages the transfer process, but the transfers are actually in the Statute, they are in 10.1, 12.1, 10.4 and 10.1 of the Statute of Autonomy. The Joint Committee on Transfers therefore manages the transfer process, and no further good looks are needed. That's why, at 1, we said no. And then, on some issues on which we have not abstained and said no, it is because we do not think that the wording, which is of a general nature, as Mrs Llanos is well aware, because it sometimes forgets some orientations, as a basic orientation for us and for us, which is reintegration, and not only in rehabilitation processes, which would seem to be all drug addicts. Well, we abstained; it's okay. But there is one issue that I would like to comment on to Mrs Llanos. That's point 14. In point 14, specific attention is given to women. Well, no problem. For us, however, specific attention to women prisoners is not a specific issue of the women's group; it is a cross-cutting issue in the prison management process. Why do I say a cross-cutting process? Because the spaces are very masculinated. Because the macho attitudes of all the people living together in prison, of the men living together in prison, is obvious, because the theme of specific attention to women's groups is not only to formulate it in a general way, and it is worth the more concrete punishment. Only those issues, which do not mean that we do not agree: we agree, but it seems to us that they are insufficient. And on the subject, finally – and I finish – of the government's proposals, we have not said no to any of them, because they are matters on which we agree, but I wanted to raise some issues on which we abstained. We have negotiated two with the Government, with Socialists and with the PNV, but I wanted to make two points on some of the issues that we find worrying: One is the subject of the third sector; it is the subject of point 36. The third sector is not, in itself, responsible for the social proposals and programmes entrusted to it; it is responsible for the public administration, and that issue is not clear. I want to say that the public administration (the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government, the Councillor's office María Jesús San José) supervises, controls, evaluates and subsidizes. It is not the third sector solely and specifically responsible for its activities. We do not think that is clear on point 36. We agree, logically; we do not say no; we will simply abstain. And another couple of topics we wanted to comment on. The subject of the attached special units for psychiatric treatment. We share with Mr Zorrilla and Mrs Castelo the point in point 44. We talked about it yesterday. However, it is not so much a matter of pulling from the existing psychiatric units themselves or concerted in the network. In our opinion – and we have already raised it, and I thought there was an agreement – we need to organize new formulas for special treatment units for serious mental disorders. And he says: man, let him do it as in the public or concerted network, let him do it Aita Menni, we have nothing else; let him do it Zamudio, Zaldibar, Bermeo... No, no, We disagree with psychiatric hospitals that have special units. It's already been tried, and it hasn't worked. We don't agree with psychiatric hospitals like Alicante, like Seville; they don't work... We are uniting within the Community framework, within the Community framework or within specific frameworks for the treatment of serious mental illness. And in point 44 that comrade Castelo and fellow Zorrilla have raised, they do a kind of 'we're going to pull out of the existing' to get out of this issue of the treatment of serious mental patients that we already have in prison. Well, as on this point which is a humble abstention, we are also on another issue, as is the issue of the 34th question. What we have to predict are drug trafficking crimes, the crimes of the narcomenudeo that is called, that we have to predict. Or we have to anticipate the big camels, the big marchers, the ones who control the crime market. You will say, "Man, at this hour of the evening, Jota, don't get so thin." It's not to make me thin; it's to see what we're talking about. We – and I believe that all of us here – are about to anticipate large-scale drug trafficking crimes, those responsible for the crime issue – I raise the voice so that no one sleeps –, those responsible for the crime of drug trafficking, which, of course, we agree, so we do not say no, in which we have to make policies to prevent drug trafficking, which leads people who then engage in drug addiction to prison. It's a matter of drug market leaders. Well... And finally, only one issue that I find interesting, which seems to our interesting group, to comment: it is raised in paragraph 17, in which we are also going to abstain, the co-management of prisoners and women prisoners through employment, in the proceedings, in the facilities and in the internal work processes in the prison. Well, it's okay... We agree; we sign it tomorrow. However, at this point in the film and with more than 170 motions for resolutions, we would find it interesting that co-management is difficult to work with people who do not have a contract of employment. I mean, are we talking, when we're talking about employment – forgive the redundancy –, about the employment of prisoners and prisoners, we're talking about paid employment contracts? So, if we are talking about paid and non-voluntary employment contracts, which we have also seen in Zaballa prison, talking about co-management is a somewhat complicated term to handle, from the labor point of view, from the human point of view, from the point of view of decision-making formulas. Co-management with people who are hired, hard. Well, here's the thing: some formal issues seem to us; others more silent, which are the ones I'm trying to explain. I am extremely pleased that, of the approximately 170 and so many motions for resolutions, practically, Elkarrekin Podemos has said yes to more than 80%. And, in principle, as far as we know from the opinions of all the groups, it is a source of satisfaction to ensure that the cuts that the press makes of this plenary, the media cuts of this plenary, are cuts that have to do with the aspirations of the people, which is the management of security, is the management of another model of prisons, is the transfers already, and is that the laws are complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u32	Good afternoon, everyone. And what we have most at this turn is to explain a little to us the circumstances of our resolutions; but before I do so, I should say that three things have been sufficiently clear to us after the morning discussion; On the one hand, there is a considerable continent about the necessity of the transfer, and the demands of it. But I think these exceptions are not for the most part connected with the general subject, but when we pass over to the details, now that we are present with them, about the model. I think the given explanations have been in that sense. And I shall arrive at another conclusion, and it is mine that I have said that the other two are shared; this probably will not be shared by some; but it has become clear to me that at this moment the chief physician has not yet finished his report. To do it, but not to finish it. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I must say, in another respect, and in the beginning of this proposition, that we have 115 propositions proposed. I think that our attitude for this debate, with the proposal and the report, has been very clear and sincere. We've passed the report in advance; we've passed the proposals beforehand; you've had a chance to see them all, to work and study them, and I've also noticed that you've been carefully examined, considering the things you've heard in the morning. Well, and that's what we've been able to work around a report. That is to say, all our cards have been on the table and I've seen that all the cards have not been on the table. But, well, there's no problem at all. In our propositions, it is true, we have only got two of them, or a majority of them, to agree to the transfer, to the necessity of transfer, and to another model. For me, that's a very important thing, and I want to remark that we've achieved it and that it's good and that we've tried to agree on other matters, but we can't. Then in the first 15 propositions, which we plan, the principles and rights are those which we do not see, and which are very general, and these rights very general, we do not know why they are in trouble. And the most serious problems seem to be to accept things and to vote for them when we get into detail. And why? Because we are sending concrete, very concrete work to many departments of the Basque Government: security, health, education, social policies, the economy and finance, VATP, even to the Arkaute Academy, and, of course, to the Department of Justice and Labour, in both parts of that department. And why do we do that? Because with the new competition, of course, they are going to change things, they have to change and they are going to change, and there will be new situations, new moments to which we will have to respond, and we will have to adapt to those times and new situations. And that is why we propose up to 17 ways to respond to these actions: we propose a Basque mechanism for the prevention of torture and ill-treatment; we propose a strategic plan with treatment measures that respect national, ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities; a public observatory independent of the penal system; a plan for the creation of family modules for the coexistence of couples with children under three years of age; a statute for prisoners; a specialized training programme for prison enforcement professionals; a plan for the reassignment or reassignment of prison officers and how to integrate them into the Basque administration; own bodies of prison specialists; a programme for the reorganization of penal execution infrastructures; an intervention programme for the progression of the first degree to the second; a pilot mentorship project, that is, how to help people who leave prison in their first moments... Risk assessment system for the open regime; prison health plan in the development of a concrete strategy on mental health; diagnosis of the adequacy of educational programmes to the penal situation of compliance; protocol of university studies with the UPV and the Department of Labour and Justice; autonomous body of work and prison benefits; education plan for the communication and teaching of the prison... Eta hemen utziko dut: ez dut nahi inor kantsatzea. Baina hauek will say konkrezioak; hauek will say zehaztasunak; hauek will say proposeen horietan eskatzen diren neurriak. And the answer to these initiatives is that they are very concrete, that we are much lower than concrete, and that, as we are much lower than concrete, because they cannot be accepted, that at the moment we will see what the Basque Government is doing. I mean, what we're being told is that we're very ambitious and we want to do a lot of things. Yes, we want to do many things, we want to move forward and we want to do so with concrete proposals. Eta goizean ibili garca gora eta behera initiatiba konkretu batzuekin, éta esan behar doubana da 115 initiatiba horietik bakarrik lauk dutela lotura zuzena goizean esandako edo aipatutako priseekin. With prisoners of political motivation, political prisoners, prisoners that Mrs. Llanos calls I don't know what... That is, with some specific people, four proposals of 115, four. And it's true, this is our concern, but it's not our only concern, this anxiety, and what's said there is a share in the government. And I'd say more: There have been some officers in this parliament, in the streets, in all the institutions of the country, who have been admitted; some of them have been informed of their proposals and designs about it. Because they are proposals that have to do with the end of exceptionality in the application of the rules, with the end of dispersion: these are the proposals. And there is one that, indeed, could have turned out to be just as a little more complicated to accept, and I understand it perfectly. It would have been possible to talk about it and withdraw it, or make a transaction, or even remove it. But no one has proposed it to us, because we have stayed in other things, which has to do with the relatives who died as a result of the dispersion. Well, we could have talked about that, but nobody wanted to do that. But it is that, moreover, many of these proposals are contained here, here, in the plan of coexistence and human rights 2017-2020 [orri batzuk erakutsi ditu], plan of the Basque Government, not plan of Euskal Herria Bildu. Here... And we're told they can't be approved. I think that when they have read this piece they have not put on the glasses to read; they have put on the glasses of short vision, and they have put on the glasses of easy speech. And they tell us one more thing about another proposition: because there are defects of the form in which we assume problems, and considering these defects of form, there is no way of seeing and introducing them. Well, I have observed what is said in this rule, and in this rule there are some articles which are said in the following rule: Chapter V. Section two. From the case studies. Article 196. When requested by the government. Article 197. Development of the discussions. Article 198. "If the debate is held at the request of Parliament, it will begin with the intervention of the representatives of the groups..." –goizean egin duguna. Second paragraph: "The session shall then be held in accordance with paragraphs 3 to 7 of the previous article". And paragraphs 3 to 7 point out when the government responds, but the one we are interested in: "With the conclusion of the debate, a period of up to two hours will be opened for the submission of motions for resolutions by the parliamentary groups. The Bureau responsible shall admit those which are consistent with the subjects dealt with in the debate, and shall transfer those which have been admitted to the groups." All of us have been accepted. The table didn't say anything. He says that this is done, that they are well made, that they are ready for tramites and disputes, and ready for agreements. Then what is said is that we agree with what is said in general, but because there is a defect of form we will not vote for it or make a transaction for it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u33	Translation system doesn't work. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u34	If there is no defect of form because the Bureau has admitted them; what is clear is that, if you want, you can. The problem is that the same thing is that you do not want to, that you do not want to approve those proposals with those contents, and then the debate is no longer in shape; the debate is in substance, and the way is used to do something different. Eta nik hori ikusten due. In any case, seeing that there is no difficulty about this agreement, I make a proposition again: seeing that, why don't we make a lot of effort, a little more, for consistent, for compact, for compact... And do we try to reform these propositions? I think we've arrived at this moment, where there'll be no trouble to do that. But even for this purpose, the will is necessary, and I do not know whether this will really exists or is not, for the first time, it is not to be supposed that forms pass over or are used when we have not actual things. And I'll say again: si se quiere, se puede; si hay voluntad, se puede hacer, and in these propositions there is one thing: not at all, but it is generally said what we will, what connexion is there with the dispute we say, and what are, with this dispute, our plans. Just see how it is: this is our proposition. It's on the table again, and we've said it because we've had the chance to make a transaction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u35	Thank you, madam. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u36	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President; good afternoon, everyone. Mr Uria, the truth is that I have not been able to answer you this morning, because it is true that you here, speaking on this issue, go far beyond what could be discussed in this Parliament, even if the transfer took place. You, this morning and now, have tried to continue, have made us, as if we were in a class – I remembered myself as if I were going back to university – a theory of criminal response, of society's response to the various crimes. And, well, you, and in the afternoon too, have talked about the treatment of drug trafficking, the criminal issue, the treatment of large traffickers or small traffickers. And, well, surely, in that theory of the punitive response of the State, on some issues we would not agree and on some issues, because I don't know, maybe we would agree more. Because I believe, and for putting a crime in which, unfortunately, every day we have an episode, as are women victims of gender-based violence, because you will already tell me what answer those criminals and murderers are given, if not prison. You'll tell me. And of course, the penalties, as I said in the morning – and it couldn't be otherwise because they are covered by article 25 of the Constitution – must be directed to rehabilitation and reintegration; that is, to that special prevention, to try to prevent the offender from delinquent again and to give him the necessary tools and skills in prison precisely for such rehabilitation, for such reintegration, and that, when he comes out, he is in better condition than when he was convicted. But it is also true: one of the missions of punishment is general prevention. And it is clear to us that the prison supervisory judge when he came to this House and set a very concrete example, which is, for example, on the issues of traffic safety, of penalties imposed and which are continually being breached, and what she came to say is: well, they are continually breached, when you access that, what example is given to society? And he said so: what example, what do we say to society, if directly that person is already going to the open regime, he is going to the third degree... And he said it like that. And there, in that vision, is absolutely the view of pain, as I also said, as a general prevention. And we, in our motions for resolutions, have tried to be very concrete. It is true that, sometimes, motions for resolutions can go more adorned, they can go more, indeed, with more issues that adorn the motion for a resolution. We have tried that, because, in addition, we and our group, before making the motions for resolutions, have looked at all the appearances here, which seemed very interesting to us, because they all tried to bring forward questions, and, depending on those shortcomings or those issues raised here in those appearances, we have been drafting our motions for resolutions. It is true that some do not correspond, or correspond to a vision of our group. As I said this morning, and it is the first of the proposals that we have tabled: it is the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, within the Joint Committee on Transfers, that must agree on the transfer of competence in relation to prison institutions, when the appropriate social conditions are met. I say it and I repeat it. It is true that there seems to be a consensus, a consensus in which we are not, because we do not agree with it. We believe, moreover, that we have already said it here on many occasions, but it is they who have to agree to it. As I said, in the second of our proposals: the enforcement of sentences must effectively contribute to rehabilitation and reintegration, and to enhancing prison treatment, in order, as I said before, to equip prisoners with tools to help them face their release from prison and, when they return to life at liberty, to return to better conditions than they entered. As many of the respondents have pointed out, many inmates come from areas of social exclusion and, in many cases, have delinquent precisely from those areas of social exclusion, because they have not had sufficient resources or skills. In that sense, as I said, the prison must serve to equip them with those skills, abilities, and instruments that allow them not to recidivize and rehabilitate themselves, in the sense that they are aware that what they did was not right and not right and cannot be done again. We must also take into account the victim of the crimes. As we say, it must be based on rehabilitation and reintegration, but also on the assumption by the prison population – of the entire prison population – of the damage caused, of responsibility to the victim and to society as a whole and that responsibility to all victims of all crimes. Of course, convicted persons have the right to respect for their human dignity and those rights that are not affected by the sentence, and penal institutions must ensure that they do so. As I said earlier, as I said this morning in my first intervention, the General Organic Prison Law itself comes to regard prison as a necessary evil, but we cannot sin goodism. For some criminals, prison must exist. Is it an evil that should be avoided as far as possible? Yes, but for some criminals it must exist. But it is also true that as a necessary evil, as I say and the General Prisons Act itself provides, the prison system must help to create the right conditions to reduce the use of prison, increase the number of prisoners serving it on an open basis and, to that end, must have sufficient personal and material means. On the subject of personal media – I said this morning, but as I believe it has not been very clear – the evolution that the Spanish prison system has had, in part, has been thanks to the officials, to all those staff who have worked in prison institutions and who put all their efforts and all their work and whose work needs to be acknowledged, and who in many cases have been threatened and, in many cases, have been targeted by the terrorist band ETA, and I would like to remind Ortega Lara, precisely and uniquely and exclusively, of being a prison officer. And as I say, much of the evolution that this prison system has had has been thanks to their work and effort. Of course, there has to be an individualized system in the prison system and, depending on that individualization, what treatment is targeted to achieve such rehabilitation and reintegration and to provide each prisoner with the appropriate social, health, training and labour resources. We have also proposed that we continue to encourage programmes aimed at the assumption of responsibilities by the disclaimer population, such as respect modules, which are valued – highly valued – internally and externally. In order to bring together the efforts of all actors, because we believe that, on this issue, the work done by the entities of the third sector has been very important and has been very important, we believe that it is necessary – or would be desirable to create – a social participation table, in which the management teams of the Basque prisons, the Basque Government, the deputies, the municipalities, the bar associations and those associations working with the prison population are integrated. It is also necessary, and therefore we have also put forward a proposal, to strengthen and intensify coordination and collaboration between Penitentiaries, the Basque Government, the outlaws, the municipalities and the institutions of the third sector themselves, in order to avoid dysfunctions. We said that this morning, when we went to Zaballa we saw two palm cases: a lack of coordination between institutions, as was that prisoner over 90 years who continued because there was no social resource, or the cancer patient who did not have a endowment to go to. We therefore believe that it should be carried out, which was also requested by one of the interveners, a study of the existing resources, so that there is a flexible design of the profiles of the inmates who can access them, so that they can be optimized. This was, for example, explained to us by the prison supervisory judge, when he told us, for example, that there are flats for AIDS patients, which have free places at the moment, because HIV has fallen considerably in prisons, but to which no other type of patient can be addressed, because the remedy, in principle, is designed for people affected by HIV. There is also a need to coordinate treatment within the prison with services provided outside the prison and taking into account the most vulnerable groups. Undoubtedly, education is an important factor in integration and rehabilitation, in order to provide capacity upon release from prison. The prison system must therefore work in the education and training of prisoners through adult education programmes, university training through UNED and access to vocational training. And labour training and integration is also a right for the prison population and an indispensable instrument for their resocialization and integration upon release from prison. Hence, from the prison system, these working habits should be promoted for the sentenced population, and they should have continuity when out of prison. The group of women prisoners must be given special attention, because, as has been said here and as we have heard in the papers, prisons are masculinized places and the system has a masculine dimension, which needs to be changed. We would also have to study – I don't think they believe immediately, but do study – the creation of these units of mothers, units that are external and that allow coexistence with children under three years out of prison, because it is not the best place for minors. There have been a number of respondents who have put on the table the problem of the high volume of prisoners in Euskadi with mental illness. Persons to whom specific treatment should be given and, to this end, the expansion of psychiatric units should be studied. In this study, it should be borne in mind that the issue is not peaceful, because there have been views in both directions: whether treatment should be done in specific units within the prison or in units belonging to the health system. Also, from the prison system, treatment must be given, as mentioned earlier, to the drug-dependent prison population, with the improvement of the resources and modules intended for them. And also take into account those inmates with high penalties and, therefore, develop specific measures for this prison population. The service of punishment, as we have heard in the appearances, is a service that is saturated and that, therefore, the personal and material means of such service must be strengthened, so that it actually fulfils the intended purpose. We also believe that it is necessary to carry out a study of the existing infrastructures, but to carry it out now, not when competition comes, but before: see what are the infrastructures, if they are necessary, if we have to close any, if we have to open more, etc. On this point, moreover, opinions have been diverging, because – as I said this morning too – there are those who consider that only a compliance centre is necessary in Zaballa and, in the other two historical territories, two CISs and, instead, for example, the prison supervisory judge considered that no, that it would be irresponsible to take all Zaballa, to concentrate the entire population there and that in the other two historical territories there were no two establishments for the application of penalties under ordinary law. They should therefore, as we say, analyse the infrastructures and see if they are redefined, if they are thrown, if new ones are built and, if new ones are built, of what type and size. With regard to the proposals of other groups, with regard to Bildu, I will be honest with you: I am going to vote that no, we are going to vote that not all. Let's vote no to all of them. But, fundamentally, because – I told you in the morning – the vision you have... And no, of course, from the formal point of view, and I agree with you that I think ours will be similar. I believe that if they were not well-written, just because they lacked that vest, the Bureau would not have admitted them. That is to say, in the end, it is clear that these are the proposals that each group has on the subject of debate that we are bringing here today. But for you, as well as instrumentalizing this issue – I have said to you: instrumentalizing the whole and using it – all your measures are directed, not to the transfer of prisons, they go much further. They will establish a model of their own, with which in some matters it is fulfilled, as it could not otherwise be, what the Spanish prison system establishes, but for the purpose of having its own system, which goes beyond. In many cases, the transfer does not serve them because it is not enough for them. And I told him... And then on the subject: you say no, because here you are very skilful and, in a parliamentary debate, you are much more or much better – or you call it as you wish, Mrs Goirizelaia – to say that your object of concern is the whole prison population, all prisoners, the prison situation... But when they gave the press conference, I repeat it again, the first thing they talked about is the first thing: the prisoners of ETA. And that's what comes up. Those prisoners I call... You said Mrs. Llanos calls. I don't know what. No, I don't call them I don't know what. I call them what they are: terrorists. Te-ro-ris-tas!, who are not in jail for political issues, who are not prisoners of political motivation, who are not in jail for doing politics... For doing politics, Mrs Goirizelaia, we have been threatened by the Socialist Party and the People's Party, for doing politics. And we have not been imprisoned, but, as Mrs Castelo said this morning, we have had our rights – many of our rights – very limited. But ETA prisoners are in jail for belonging to the armed gang, for being terrorists, for being murderers, kidnappers, extortioners, etc.; for committing crimes. And I did put it this morning that one of your measures – I did get it here – was to consider family members as victims of state policy. If this is not to instrumentalise the prison policy in favour of your parish, in favour of whom you, still today, have not condemned, and, if tomorrow we put on the table here an initiative to condemn the terrorist band ETA and the past of the terrorist band ETA, I am very clear what your response would be. I would like it to be another; but, of course, it would be unconvincing. Don't condemn her, because they're still in the same ones they've always been. With regard to the amendments tabled by Podemos, there are two that we are going to vote in favour and in the rest we are going to abstain, because there are many of the issues that are either raised by us or are already being implemented. And with regard to those of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, I am very grateful for the first of their motions for resolutions, because they speak of the transfer of services. Yeah, no, if a lot of services are already transferred. Article 10.14 deals with the exercise of the competence to organize, regulate and operate institutions for the protection and guardianship of minors, prisoners and social reintegration. It seems that, with this wording, you renounce the penal institutions and that it is only worth them with the services, that many of them already have them transferred. In relation to the rest, we have two groups: In some of the questions we are going to vote that yes, although some are in agreement with our own, and in others we will vote that no, because, for example, with regard to restorative justice, as it is designed, we believe that it is something that works before the crime, but that, after the crime, the inclusion of restorative justice seems more difficult to integrate and because with some of them, as I say, as the UPV issue, we directly disagree. Nothing more; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u37	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Euskal Sozialistak, Andrea Castle, Hitza zurea. Once the papers are organized, sometimes the rostrum becomes small. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u38	The first thing the Socialist Group wants to do in this speech is to stress that, apart from the differences that we have been demonstrating in the debate, this House broadly shares the vision of the prison management model that we want for Euskadi, and – I think – that is important to highlight. A model with a social vocation, and in which we use our competences, those present and those we hope will arrive, towards the end of the reintegration established by the Constitution. I was telling you this morning that the important thing in this debate was to get something useful, and the proposals that we are going to try I think they are, because they go into the fundamentals, but they are also because they reflect a broad consensus, and the things that they want to last in time deserve that broad shared soil. On it, then, logically, improvements can be made. But today is an important day, because this Parliament has clear questions: we want the transfer of prisons to take place in accordance with the terms laid down in the Statute; therefore, we cannot share the amendment of the People's Party, which presents in number one, saying that the conditions are not met. There is a Statute: we stand for self-government; we stand for the need to supplement that Statute and, therefore, the conditions must already occur. We want this transfer not to be one more, because we do not want it as a mere accumulation of competences, but we want a useful tool, which serves judges – let's not forget – to make the best decisions to achieve reintegration, and that it serves people who have been sentenced to preserve their rights and to reintegrate into the society against which they have been delinquent at some point. This is what the motions for resolutions tabled by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group are about, because we had the work done and the duties done, because, from the Department of Labour and Justice, models had been contrasted, and because they already draw the essential collaboration that exists between different areas of the Government, different institutions and with third sector organizations, which is something fundamental today and which will continue to be essential tomorrow. We want to thank, in advance, the provision that was shown to us by Mr Uria, who has complied with this provision to the agreement and who has incorporated a number of proposals, which we believe are in line with the proposals that we have put forward, and which I believe are contributing to the construction of the model that we mostly share in this House. It is true that there has been a small variation, a small change in the sense of voting on some issues; but, well, then I will sort out some of the issues that you have brought to our attention from the rostrum. And there are also many of the issues that EH Bildu had put on the table where we actually shared the spirit, and so we have moved it; but in some cases, we believe that our groups have raised them better, with better wording or with more precision. And it is probably also true that because EH Bildu's proposals weighed on a number of issues that had nothing to do with what we can do today, or with what we can do when we assume the competences in this area, and that has also been able to distract them from the nuclear and what was important in this debate. So those distraction proposals, in which we talked about issues that have nothing to do with the core of the transfer that we are talking about today, will be rejected. This plenary is not to meet the demands of specific prisoners, of ETA prisoners, who, on the other hand, are not in Basque prisons, which is the area of our management, and who, if they are, because it was decided by Prison Institutions, would under no circumstances be treated differently from the rest of the prison population. So the reasons for rejecting EH Bildu's proposals are going to be summed up in three reasons: that in Spain and in Euskadi – and in this I am going to join the spokesman of the People's Party – there are no political prisoners, or political or similar. The Socialists do not accept it either as a precondition on any kind of issue. What is there, and they have made it very clear, we have also said this morning, but we will reiterate it: what is there are prisoners for terrorist crimes; for killing, for murdering, for extortioning, for kidnapping, that is why they are in prison. We are also opposed to proposals that lead to torture or degrading practices in prisons on a regular basis. We defend the dignity, the integrity, of the prisoners, and we will commit ourselves and commit ourselves to that task. But that does not mean assuming situations, which, if any, must be denounced judicially, and not politically. We are also opposed to proposals that place half a gram of suspicion on public employees working in prisons. We are also opposed to proposals that would establish categories among the prison population according to their crime, according to the crime they have committed. We logically oppose – and I have explained it to you precisely this morning – proposals that relate to the penal model and not to the prison, because that goes beyond our competence. And we will also oppose those who have a wording that we believe is improved and put into practice in our own motions for resolutions. I am talking about these now, but let me say this: we are also going to oppose the Ertzaintza claim that you gentlemen of EH Bildu are suddenly doing, not because we are not happy that you finally have a gesture of recognition of the work that our police are doing – which we would be happy if we really considered it sincere – but because what you are trying to do is to slip – even if you do not say so – a sort of contradiction between officials, those I have already said that you have been despised, and what such a good task you are doing, and the agents of the autonomous police. And because, in short, we already have coordination mechanisms between all the departments concerned with the Basque Government, including, logically, the security department, and also with the other institutions and the third sector. And this factor of collaboration, involvement and action in all areas is the one that also summarizes our proposals, those that we have agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos and those that we hope will also have the support of the rest of the groups in this House. We begin, in our proposals, by reiterating our commitment to self-government and the will to develop it in this area as well. Never is there any more, seeing, as we have seen, the winds that blow and the interventions from this rostrum. If someone has not been made clear to him, we hope that the transfer can take place and that the next Government of Spain will maintain its will to carry it out, and we know that this will be the case if the Government is socialist. We will continue to uphold the principles that must govern the management model that we want: consensus-based, human dignity-oriented, resocialization-oriented, with full guarantee of all the rights of a prisoner who have not been restricted by sentence. I was transferring to Mrs Goirizelaia, not long ago, that there is – and it is true – a question of form in the proposals they have put forward. But beyond binding between the forms and the background, what we have is consensus... or we share that background of what is also written in the motions for resolutions, which both the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party have presented, in a correct form, and which is based on this which I am telling you now. Because we are based on the principles of dignity of the person, citizenship, legality, reduction of the use of prison, resocialization at the community level, integration of public policies – all of which you also claim – and incorporating restorative practices and the gender perspective in a cross-cutting way, because women prisoners need that special attention. We will not share certain specific aspects of those proposals that you make to us, such as the mixed modules. And we bet equally on external units of women – who have also told her today; that should not be a concrete proposal; in her mouth yes, in that of the counselor, no. That we also want to bet on a model that bets on the fulfilment of penalties that contribute to a greater humanization and that seek personalized attention, that guarantees socio-health, educational and formative care above the punitive character – it was said this morning, and that is what the proposals that you have been able to read reflect. A model that ensures equal access to health services than the rest of the citizenry. We talk about equal treatment. You guys have some nuances. Facilitate the best treatment of people with mental illness and addictions. And here, in the case of Elkarrekin's colleague Podemos, we have come to have a proposal with you – which refers to point 38 – in which we have spoken precisely of the need that "the Basque Parliament considers it necessary to continue in the investigation and exploration of specific therapeutic, psychological and psychiatric treatment programmes, based on the experience already accumulated of new therapeutic models, in order to better suit drug addicts and patients with serious mental health problems, with a particular impact on those prisoners who serve their sentences in closed conditions, thereby improving access to intermediate rehabilitation structures in the field of mental health". And we believe that this has nothing to contradict our proposal in point 43, in which we say that the use of existing psychiatric units in our autonomous community – such as the centre of Aita Menni – is also encouraged, if that enables us to be treated outside the penitentiary institution. But we do not believe that they are exclusionary, and therefore we do not understand why his group does not support both proposals. We also want to enhance the customization of treatments from the beginning and the accompaniment in the reintegration process. This is also the third sector. What we believe is essential is that there are services that are provided directly, as they are being carried out at this time too, and there will be others that we do in collaboration with the third sector. And what we believe is necessary, and this is also what we have in our motion for a resolution, is to provide them with the appropriate means, with adequate funding, to enable them to develop this work in conditions, for the professionalization, training and adequate care of the population with which they work. But we also do not believe that this development of the third sector is incompatible with the provision of services that is also carried out directly within prison management. That is why we do not understand why support is not being given at this time. We also want, logically, like the rest of the groups that have intervened, this model to enhance the enforcement of sentences in an open regime, to develop a wide network of reintegration, to guarantee this transit between prison and community life, and also to guarantee the continuity of the treatments that have begun in this process of resocialization and treatment that is carried out with the people who are serving sentences. And that sufficient guarantees be offered to the judiciary, so that it can take these alternative measures to closed compliance. And it is also true: we want to promote their training, the adoption of working habits and the improvement of employability, which I do not know if this has anything to do with what Mr Uria has mentioned with the subject of co-management. When we were in Zaballa, the co-management explained it to us, moreover, with the theme that it is good for the process of resocialization and reeducation, and, in addition to the improvement of employability, that the prisoners themselves, the people who are in prison collaborate in the maintenance of the facilities; they told us about gardening, they told us about certain actions that they perform within the infrastructure itself, not on a compulsory basis, but on a voluntary basis, for which they also received a remuneration. In this case, he had no consideration of discharge in Social Security, nor of a contract of employment; for this he had to pass to the productive modules, which they also had there, in which also the subscription is voluntary, in which the person arrested is also chosen by the person who wants to work, because they also need to carry processes of habituation and collection of working habits, which many of them do not have. Therefore, I do not understand why we oppose this co-management that also helps them in their own process of personal restructuring with the issue of what work has to do with the productive modules. We don't think it's incompatible. These are complementary things and at different levels of action. In that sense, what I believe is that we will be able to bring this forward, clearly and with broad agreement, if we do not distract ourselves with dark interests or with second intentions; if we do not cheat in this debate. We are going to thank, of course, the collaboration of the Basque Nationalist Party, the effort that has also been made, by them, by Elkarrekin We can, in drawing up the proposals, of their improvements. And we would also like to thank EH Bildu for giving us the opportunity to demonstrate here, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, that we have not lost half a minute, that we have come with the duties we have done and with the roles we have carried out, no matter how much you want to keep insisting on something else. To come, the truth, from a force which has been absent of its own will for a long time from the construction of our self-government, who have been in the construction of each transfer, the management of each competition and the construction of the Euskadi that we know today, for we are pleased to be able to tell you that we are also clear what we want with this new competition, for what we want it and how we want it. So let's take it for granted, of course, this day, in which we transfer to society our ability to reach agreements, which is not something baladi, taking into account the times that run, and this, in any case, always has to be or must be good news. However, I would also like to comment on one thing, Mrs Goirizelaia, that it would be good for you, when you can, to review the speech that the counsellor had this morning, because the truth is that you hear but do not listen. The adviser has told him that they have a report, which has been prepared by a group of experts and is currently in the Department, at the stage of input from the department itself and in contrast from the department itself. So, it's not like I don't have anything closed, and so... He has a document and he has a second document; the same thing that has happened to you: you have mashed one, and you have cut us another to present it today in plenary. Nothing to question. Everyone has their method of work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. And in order to finish this round, Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, all good afternoons. As Mrs Castelo has already said, the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist parliamentary groups have tabled a total of 44 motions for resolutions in this monographal plenary called for by EH Bildu. We have had two sex with the Elkarrekin Podemos group and with EH Bildu, which are the first and the second, and I believe that the compromise and consensus reached in this area are important, because the first thing he does is to demand the necessity and priority of compliance with the transfer and compliance with the Statute in Articles 10.14 and 12.1, as we said in the first intervention this morning. I believe it is important that this Parliament should once again pronounce itself and demand compliance with the law; that it should demand compliance with the Statute, and that prison services should be transferred. Prison services, Mrs. Llanos, covering prisons and social reintegration. It is not that we give up anything that the Statute says. And the second, which is also important, because we agree on the need to seek a consensus between the political forces and the rest of the sectors and to reflect on the model, which is what we have done here today, and we understand that it is a difficult, complex task, and that I believe, as I said this morning, no one intends – or at least no one intended – that today Parliament should decide how to manage the new Basque prison model, the management model. What was proposed here was to set out some general lines, guidelines from where the parliamentary groups represented here want that model of prison management to differ. And basically it was in social reintegration, compared to what we were commenting that prison punishment, punishment and revenge were prevailing over social reintegration. The rest of the proposals we've put forward... Well, there's been two more we've had sex with Elkarrekin Podemos, which I'll mention later. The rest of the proposals are in line with what we believe should be the guidelines of that model of prison management of our own and that this morning we detail and will not affect. She also referred briefly to this: the restorative perspective of justice; greater humanization by ensuring socio-health and training assistance; strengthening the different pathways of access to vocational training, adult education, university studies; the important principle – the cross-cutting principle – of the gender perspective to address the specific and particularly serious situation faced by women in prison, analysing all prison infrastructures, many of them from the 1950s and also from that gender perspective; coordinating coordinated action both at the interdepartmental level of the Basque Government and at the inter-institutional level, including the social aspect, third sector entities and other social associations such as trade unions. In the area of health, we had introduced eight motions for resolutions, in which I believe that what is at stake is to enhance and improve the pioneering service that Osakidetza provides at the prison level. No other autonomous community in the State does. Osakidetza managed, already in 2016, to integrate prison health with community health, and in this line, we believe that therapeutic treatments are important. And it should be emphasized, although perhaps it should be the last reflection or statement on my part in this plenary, but I will put it forward, which is the last motion for a resolution, which is very clear, that "the Basque Government must, for the implementation of the prison model, as well as for the elaboration of the plans and documents that serve to adapt and manage that prison model, once the competence has been transferred as a competent body, take into account all the documents drawn up previously, the contributions of external persons who have collaborated with the Department of Labour and Justice this legislature and the motions for resolutions adopted after today's monographic debate and everything that comes later". With regard to the 14 motions for resolutions put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos, we have reached a compromise in four of them; two of them have already been mentioned, which are the first two points we consider to be silent. And we will support the other 10 unscrewed proposals, as agreed with Mr Uria. As Mrs Castelo said, we were surprised by Elkarrekin Podemos' abstentionist position when we understood that there was an agreement whereby Elkarrekin Podemos was going to support our motions for resolutions and we supported his. We are going to comply with what we agreed, and we are going to support the motions for resolutions put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos. And speaking of surprises, a question. He spoke of the 36, which is the 35 – I say in front of the vote. The 36 I mentioned is the 35, which talked about the work of the third sector entities, and I think we have to value it and recognize it as we said this morning. And what we proposed is to provide adequate funding, which I believe is a claim, which I do not know if it will be enough or not enough what can be provided, but to improve that endowment. The 44th. It meant 44, which is 43, which refers to therapeutic units and Aita Menni; we do not agree that Aita Menni does not work. In fact, what we propose is to study the possibility of more places, if necessary. And the 34 which is the 33, you have probably been sent a resolution or some previous draft, but take it into account in the votes. As for the new forms of crime, we were not talking about drug trafficking. We only referred to the new forms of crime that the counselor explained to us the other day at the appearance: cybercrime. We will therefore comply with the agreement with Podemos, and we will vote in favour of its proposals. With regard to the proposals of the Group of the European People's Party, there is little to say. We are considering and reflecting on how to manage a Basque prison model of our own, and that will come when the law is enforced and the transfer is completed. And you at the first point deny the greatest; deny the transfer. He says that this will be done when the appropriate social conditions are in place, and that at the moment they do not yet exist in our autonomous community. He said before: is this a nationalist interpretation of the Statute or is it a Spanish nationalist interpretation of the Statute? Who decides when these circumstances occur? Is law enforcement subject to the evaluation of political groups within the Government? We are clear that this is an organic law of 79 and that it is not possible to make a partisan use of law enforcement. We therefore demand – as we have agreed by the rest of the groups – compliance with the Statute, and that priority be given to the transfer. I used to mention it in the previous plenary: I do not know whether you in that retreat – I do not know if democratic that you are evolving – with that motion that you raised in the Senate, in which you proposed precisely that, the violation of the law, the violation of the Statute, are moving towards what we said earlier when the Statute was voted on in 1979, that People's Alliance, of which some joined their party, and the National Union said that the autonomy of peoples was the great threat to the unity of Spain. It seems that this is coming back, and that this allows for non-compliance with laws passed and ratified in a referendum by society. On the other hand, you have tabled, I think it is 20; you call them motions for resolutions, but the form that gives them is not that of motions for resolutions, but they are simply statements. It could serve for an institutional declaration, but not for a full monograph with motions for resolutions, in which someone must – in this case Parliament – urge someone to do something about the matter. So, we know, we already understand that, unlike what has happened to EH Bildu, in the case of the People's Party, it is not a procedural error, because we have revised the motions for resolutions in the monographic debate on taxation and the motions for resolutions in the debate on communication about the social economy and their motions for resolutions are that, they are motions for resolutions: The Basque Parliament urges someone, a department, an institution, to do something... In this case, I believe that intentionally, they do not put forward proposals because they do not want to. In fact, they deny the largest and, therefore, there is no political intention for this to develop, for a model of prison management to develop itself in Euskadi. And finally, with regard to EH Bildu's proposals, we have had two sex. As I said, the first two, and I think the agreement reached is important. We are going to vote yes to five of them, to five of the proposals, and we are going to vote no, in principle, to the rest. Mrs Goirizelaia said that there were three clear things about this plenary: One, the consensus on the need for transfer; I think that is clear: except for the People's Party, all groups have it clear, and we represent – I believe – most of this society and, therefore, that need is clear. Secondly, it was clear that the report has not yet been drawn up by the Commissioner. Well, if he had, it would probably have been said that he did it without hearing or listening to this Parliament. I think we need to give confidence. Today, the Counsellor has told us what the procedure is and what steps are being taken. Today, he will have new proposals to incorporate this diagnosis and design into the development of the management model. And, therefore, I think we're on the right track. With regard to your proposals, you said it was 115. This morning we were arguing or you were saying, "We're 115; you're only 45." Well, as we said, it wasn't about quantity, it was about quality. And Mrs Castelo also told him that motions for resolutions must have subject, verb and preached. Important is the shape, and the bottom. As important or more is the way as the bottom. And in the middle of the other day we also told you. And to you who's a lawyer, I don't think you have to remember. It is as if it does not identify the court to which it requests the delivery of justice. He makes a demand; he leaves it in the courthouse, and there he does it. He said that the Bureau had admitted them. Well, it'll be out of negative silence. But, even if I had expressly admitted them, it is necessary to specify – I understand – who is the recipient of these initiatives, to whom the duties are put and from whom they come. I'm just gonna read it to him, but it could be 82. That is to say, of the 115, we understand that 82 do not take that form, but rather that they are academic pronouncements or judgments of value to be taken into account too, but that they do not meet those requirements that we said. And I'm telling you, some of them are acceptable on the merits. For example, you mentioned it and I think you mentioned it, the mentoring pilot project, and it will be taken into account; but, as I said, I will read you only 2 of the 85, as 11 for example: The 11th. Interpret all of you if this is a motion for a resolution: "11. The principle of territoriality and localization refers to the fact that people have to serve the prison near their place of origin and their family or social environment, avoiding uprooting." Well, as a perfect academic pronouncement. But who's asking? Who's in it for? It's a statement. Okay... The 16th. And I will only read these two of the 82 that exist in this literal tenor: "Principle of transparency and permeability of the prison with society favoring an increasingly fluid communication of society, its associations and popular organizations and public institutions with the prisoner". Well, yeah, we can share that, too. But is this a motion for a resolution? Not from our point of view. Here it is not said who urges it or who is urged or who is the receiver. If you want, we can consult the Bureau to see whether this is a proposal or whether it is a motion for a resolution. As examples, these two examples. However, as I said, in one of these pronouncements, especially with regard to inspiring rights and principles, we agree with that, since most of them – let alone all – are already recognized at international level. On the other hand, many of the issues that are being raised are already being done, despite the fact that in many cases there is no transfer, via convention. And it is true that, as in everything, there is room for improvement and in that line we are working and for that we demand the transfer. They also plan, in these statements, the creation of structures, agencies, units... as if they did not exist enough. You usually talk about chiringuitos, for here what you propose is to create many chiringuitos. We understand that what needs to be done is to analyze what is there and see if they can be improved and optimised. That, much of that, we believe is not effective in managing the real needs of persons deprived of their liberty. And those that exist can provide a satisfactory response, if those real needs of the affected persons are taken into account. In short, according to EH Bildu, everything is to be done; but this, as we have shown this morning, is not true. As we have explained, it does not start from scratch, and the basic architecture of everything that needs to be done when the transfer is received is already planned. The Basque Government has advanced this work. One thing I've told you before that I've forgotten this morning, and I want to remind you now... or specify; it is related to their insistence – I believe – in three or four of their motions for resolutions which refer to this, to the rapprochement of prisoners and to the end of the exceptionality of prison policy, which, as we have said, is something other than the model of prison management. I must tell you – I have told you in private and I want to comment here – that the Basque Government continues to work towards the end of the exceptionality of prison policy, with programmes such as Zuzen Bidean, Hitzeman and the plan to bring ETA prisoners closer to Euskadi prisons handed over to the Spanish Government. Our motions for resolutions focus on the model of prison infrastructure management and on issues that currently depend on the competence of the Basque Government. We therefore encourage them to support the 44 motions for resolutions that we have tabled. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u41	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. It's five minutes in response. Together, Mr. Podemus, Uria, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u42	Bai, yes, very brief, Madam President. We have complied, Mr Zorrilla; we do not say no to any proposal, to any proposal. We have abstained in some, because in the working group we did in Elkarrekin We have invited colleagues from other commissions, from Employment, from Human Rights, from Security, and we have collated some issues so as not to have contradictions. It's that simple. The spirit that encourages us, and we reaffirm it, is support for the set of Socialist and PNV proposals. I thank Mrs Llanos for her efforts to explain her proposals, and I really do, and I encourage her to go into some formal and contradictory matters she has, because it would be very interesting if we could reach some agreements in the future, especially in the context of the transfer. And finally, I want to comment on Alexia Castelo, my partner, because we are in the same line. It is not co-management what the director of Zaballa prison explained to us. There was a volunteer, an employee, who participates in cleaning and organizing the kitchen and other activities, has nothing to do with decision-making processes in prison management procedures. You know it, I know it: that's not co-management. Obviously, we fully agree with the idea of participation and volunteering in the matter. But, well, without further ado... And simply, well, reaffirm the theme of thank you to all groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u44	Yes, good afternoon. I'll start with a request. I have heard here, from many places, that there are technical problems about our proposal, and that then they will not be voted because of technical problems. I've read before what the ruler says, and I've heard that there's admidas por silencio netovo. En Fine... Then what I ask of you is to know whether our proposals are really possible to vote or not, and that it may be clear that when you say that no strange discussion can enter, and that it is not an argument to be, the matter is not really at the bottom. Madam President, what I am asking, if you can – and if you cannot, I want to put this on record – is a recess so that the lawyer who is, or the lawyer, tells us whether the motion for a resolution we have tabled is or is not, and then there is no technical-legal problem of any kind and that strange arguments such as "negative silence" are not used to say that they do not vote on proposals because they are wrong. I understand that they have been admitted and that they can be proposed for exactly the same debate. [[Berber]] If that is possible, I would like to request a report, and if that is not possible, then I would like to make it clear that this is the case. Mrs. Llanos... "I am speaking, Mr. Aiartza." Mrs. Llanos, I had no doubt what I was going to say. Come on, actually, as you were saying, I was saying from the rostrum that that was going to be so. Because, indeed, it is true, that is: we want a system of our own. That is the case, and then we are considering how we want that system to be its own, which is different from its own, and that is why it is not going to vote on our proposals. Nor are we yours, because our system and yours is not the same either. In relation to the Socialist Party: they have done a job in advance; well, they gave it to us on Monday. It's a bit forward, yes, but one day. We passed them our report before; we passed them everything, we passed them the proposals... Well, yeah, a little ahead. But, look, I don't understand what you're telling me. I read the proposals, and the truth is that I find it very difficult to understand why you do not want to vote for proposal No 2, which does not say that there is torture or ill-treatment, what it says is that we must prevent it from happening and that we must look for a mechanism to prevent it. If we are not saying anything or putting anyone under suspicion, it is that I would like things to be read. When we talk about public employees, proposals 18 to 27 – read them and you'll see what they say – that we're not questioning anyone at all; we're putting in place measures to make things do differently and do better. And as we do have consistency and we do have clear things, for look, we are going to vote yes to yours. Because I have told you that we agree in spirit, I also say this to Mr Zorrilla, and that, although they do not have the concreteness and do not raise the questions that we raise, they do not seem to us to be against what we say. Our proposals are more concrete. We will continue to bring them; we will continue to propose them; we will put them on the table whenever we can, through non-law proposals or whatever, so that they can be put into practice; but, still, we will vote yes to those proposals... Man, and Mrs. Llanos spoke in the morning about electoral propaganda, because electoral propaganda that of Mrs. Castelo, who told us that this will go much better if she wins the PSOE, but well... That has told us all very clearly here. Well, look, Mrs. Llanos, I do electoral propaganda; I've been doing electoral propaganda since 2016, since I sat on the committee and we started talking to the councilwoman, and she can recognize it: I've been talking about this for how long, and always on the same terms, and always making it the same. Because I do have a concern about this issue, because my work has been developed on this issue, because since the Bizkaia Bar Association we have launched the prison commission, we have launched the Human Rights Commission, and we have always worked on this, and I am very concerned about the situation of prisoners, very much because many of them are my clients and are in very worrying situations, and that is why I raise it. And finally, in relation to what Mr Zorrilla tells us about the report... Man, margin... of the report or of the document, or I do not know very well, of the Counsellor. Margin of trust, yes, Mr. Zorrilla. But it is that in June 2017 you told us, in the intervention here, I think that Mrs Castelo, when she opposed our proposal, that you were making a report, and, man, trust yes, patience too, but I think that two years is time to make a report. We have made appearances in a more or less similar time, and we have all brought our proposals and we have all brought our reports, without so many means, without spending money, or at least so much, and doing things as we have kindly been able to do. We have a report; we have some proposals that we have put to the vote and that we are going to put to the vote, and we still need to know what the adviser is going to bring us and when, because she is now in the making. Well, we have a lot of patience; but, man, what we believe is that, if the transfer is urgent, it is urgent to know how and how we want to do it. And that report is urgent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u45	Thank you, madam. To make it clear, the amendments are allowed, so that they will vote. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Each team will rate their own ratings by the addition of others...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u46	That means...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u47	But if you'll excuse me, forgive me, the discussion here is the discussion of the groups. He accepted the tables at his own time, and we put them to the vote, from which there is no further discussion. No, she's not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u48	Yes, Mrs. President, I'm sorry. Therefore I desire to hear that these proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u49	Weren't they accepted? You know it. [[Words]] But they have, and will vote. And each team has rated it. It's not... there is no turning. [[Words]] Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I am also more reassured that our motions for resolutions have also been accepted by positive silence in any case, Mr Zorrilla, because the negative is usually to be rejected. Well, and you were talking about reintegration and rehabilitation that's going to be the fundamental goal. What's he saying? That they're not right now? And does the Socialist Party share that? That the Spanish prison system, which, as I said this morning, has been exercised by the People's Party and by the Socialist Party, according to whom it has been in the government, is not intended for reintegration and rehabilitation? But I'm going to tell you one thing: the reinsertion and the clear rehabilitation that they have to be the purpose, I've told you – it's in article 25 of the Constitution – but you also have to take into account – and I've told you about the reviewable permanent prison debate, that we're not going to debate here – that the penalty, in this case, is not revenge, of course not, but there are those who don't want to be rehabilitated, those who aren't rehabilitated, those who aren't resocialized... And you, Mr. Zorrilla, what do you propose? That without being resocialized, without being rehabilitated and with much chance of reoffending, he is released for reoffending? Is that what you're telling me? Is that going to be the compliance system, in your opinion? That will not be possible, because that will not depend on you; it will depend on the prison supervisory judge, who still remains the competence of the State. And you were talking about democratic regression and our ability to manage autonomous communities, or our autonomous vision. Look, the People's Party manages more autonomous communities than you do. More than you. You guys manage one and that way. Because there are skills that you manage... Do I have to remind you of the PISA report with education? And when they have tried to get into problems in other autonomous communities, they have had the result they have had and they have come out warm. Or do I have to remind you of the cover of a newspaper today, where Mr. Lehendakari is called directly a liar, who lied? That he lied? So I'm telling you, one and that way, and when they get into another, they go out like they go out. And you talk about skills. I've told him many times. More than just self-government, better self-government, because for a long time, the transfer of prisons has mattered to you. A cumin! And now, not just this one, all the others, why do they claim them? Well, because you are in this continuous mantra of going against the State, of victimism and of preventing the presence – I have said this morning – of the State in Euskadi, because you are going one step further. And you're talking about democratic regression? Look, the motion that was passed in the Senate was not against the Statute at all. What he was doing was contrary to his interpretation of the Statute, his vision of transfers. But you here have voted against the Constitution. Against the Constitution. Who has the democratic setback in this House? That bench or this one? Because I don't even count these anymore, of course. And I, Mrs. Goirizelaia, truly... Mrs Castelo said that if the Socialist Party wins things would be better. For you, truly, you will get better. They'll be much better off. There's nothing more to see. Why am I staying out of this plenary? With whom is the Socialist Party going to agree to transfer prisons to Euskadi? With the PNV, which is his government partner, Bildu and Podemos. These are his fellow travellers to agree on the transfer of prisons and the prison model to be carried out in Euskadi. Mrs. Castelo, those are the comrades of the Socialist Party. Logically, what are you going to do or what do you offer to do if you win the election? The same thing they have done to get the government: to agree with the nationalists and the independenceists. And that's what I'm staying with, and this is your election offer. Today you are also in the campaign, and your electoral offer is to agree on the transfer of prisons, the prison model and whatever it takes with the independenceists and the nationalists. I'm telling you, these are your traveling companions. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u51	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Castelo, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u52	Mrs. Llanos. When there are no more arguments, we resort to the easy issue. Look, look at him. Who stays out? Who is the only group that is left out of the parliamentary arc, which we represent 100% of Basque society? Who's left alone? Do not want to blame us for seeking consensus, dialogue and the shared way of doing things. Make him look at it. They are being left alone in all matters. And we're not going against anyone. You're very wrong. This is not against the state. This goes with the fulfillment of an organic law that you also claim to defend, or say: we are talking about the Statute of Autonomy. It is clear from this that it is up to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to exercise this competence. And it's true, my business is not propaganda, Mrs. Goirizelaia. My thing is conviction. If there is a socialist government after the next general elections, the transfer of prison policy, in terms of managing the model for the enforcement of sentences, will arrive in the Basque Country. Another thing will be if there is another result, and you know how I and we share, what can happen if there are others, because we have previous experience. Okay? And don't be scared. Don't be scared. We have told you that there are defects in our view in your proposals, and Mr Zorrilla has given you an obvious example. Man, if you come to me here... That's what Santillana's book told me before. You have taken Santillana's book and said: the principle of territoriality; that pa-pa-pi-pa-pa; the principle of legality, pa-pa-pa-pi-pa. But is that a motion for a resolution? Or is it Santillana's book taken to pieces? Of course... Then, the Basque Parliament declares, invokes, all those in which you had verb, subject and preached, all those we have analyzed. It is true that with the result that we support some, others do not, and some we have had sex. Which, by the way, the 2 that you question that if we're not going to support, that we've fucked her – we have a very careful number dance...– We've had sex with 2 between three groups, because you've questioned me here in the rostrum. And, actually, what we're going to do is vote no. I think it was clear... I've told you in a special way. Let's vote no. We will not do as you do when you do not like a proposal that is brought to Parliament, which says: "In this vote I do not go, in this vote I do not...". No, no, We are going to participate in the vote, as in all the votes that are brought to this Parliament. And we are going to vote no on these proposals that we have commented on. Come on, and also without any kind of complex and with all the arguments and with all the reasons we have told you. And look. I don't know if your proposal was before or not before. Mine on Monday. Yours I picked up from the press on the weekend, modeled, prepared... Like a political program, all over there. Of course, then when they had to come here – what they were interested in was that public presentation, very cute, very... – they realized that they had to change the format for the motions for resolutions. They didn't care very much, because they made a clipping there, which we also warned them. Did they have any chance? Of course they had a chance, if they wanted to correct it and if they had taken it seriously. Come on, there is the very correction of the amendments by the proposing group, which could have done so. But they weren't interested, because you didn't want that. In any case, I'm going to close by telling you that I think you say we want to know how and for what. And I believe that how and what we share it in this Parliament. And, truth be told, I think one thing must be made clear, Mrs Llanos: when a person who is in prison comes out and recidivises it is because we have failed, as a system, in his reinsertion. And that, therefore, we will have to improve all the mechanisms and we will have to have all the possible tools to make this reintegration happen and we can therefore improve the safety of the community. Therefore, let us close with what you have said, Mrs Gorizelaia. There is broad agreement on the principles, objectives and criteria of the prison management model. We share that the transfer has to reach the Basque Country. And we also believe that we know for what and that we will be efficient in its management when it arrives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. And in the end, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u54	Thank you. I had no intention of going down; but in the end, writing down so many things that have been mentioned, there is no other remedy left. Elkarrekin We can. Man, for us, it is not the same to agree that we abstain, and it is not the same to support that we do not vote against. It's a pretty big difference in shade. With regard to EH Bildu, we have said that for us, for us, both the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, there are no motions for resolutions. We have read him two very clear examples, of the 82 that they collect, in which he does not say who, nor does he say to whom, nor for what, in many of them. And it is not, as I told Mrs Castelo, that we will not vote, as you have done on some occasion. We are going to vote, what happens is that, for that reason of form, we are going to vote no. And I think we have told him that, although we are going to vote that not for the sake of form, there are exploitable proposals within those academic pronouncements that we were saying. There are things that are exploitable and acceptable, and we also urge the department to take them into account. I was talking about 2, and I think the subconscious here has failed you; of course, as you play with two documents, one the document for a hearing and the other the document you present here in the House, the 2 that you said, the one of the movement against torture, the one of prevention against torture, was the 2 of the document that you presented in Donostia. But the 2 that you have presented today in this Parliament is the one that we have had sex with all the groups, except the People's Party. I mean, be clear. It speaks of confidence and patience. Well, we're going to talk about patience... And he says they are going to vote in favour, well, I have to thank him sincerely for his positive vote, and I am clear that if they vote yes, if they vote in favour, it is because they think they are good proposals. And so we have worked, and we also sincerely believe, that they are good proposals for setting out the general lines and guidelines of what the Basque model of prison management has to be. As for Mrs. Llanos... Well, these have gone the other way. They've gone backwards. You have joined, if I am not going to support the Statute, in defending it now fervently. These have gone backwards. Already in 1995 they supported in this House the priority of this transfer of prison powers, and now what they advocate is non-compliance with the law, they advocate non-compliance with the law, based on particular political criteria. Of course, Mrs Llanos, what we are proposing, and I think that we also agree with the strategic objectives that the adviser said, it is not that all prisoners get out of jail, get out on the street. Of course, prison must be, we said earlier, a residual method, that is, for the most serious crimes, I think we said it before; logically, if someone has made a theft or a minor offence and, for whatever reason, he has to go to prison, what we propose is that such punishment is carried out in an alternative measure to prison, which, as has been shown, is more effective, is more effective for the purpose of social reintegration. Of course, if the objective, as we said, is not social reintegration, but is punishment and revenge, for logically its argument has consistency. He says they've given a shit about this transfer. Well, that's what you say. You will be able to speak for yourselves, and you have shown it and continue to demonstrate it. But we, and I've said it before, sittings in this House, government agreements, Parliament, General Courts... You can review the session log and see what has been the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in this matter. It's always been the same; it hasn't changed. And he says why they claim them. For, man, we basically demand them for two things: one because they are in the law and because they have been endorsed by Basque society; and another because they are legally ours. We therefore understand that the People's Party is going beyond what is the democratic framework, proposing the non-compliance of a law as important to Euskadi as the Statute of Autonomy. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. End of discussion, we're going to vote. So, check your cards and take a good look, in case you don't mind. And we'll start with the first team. Together with the Podemos team resolutions. We're going to vote two half-way, EH Collect, together with Podemos, Eukal Socialists, and Eunciists. 1st Resolution, Podemosena, Resolution 1, EH Collector's, and Resolution 1 of the Euctalists and Socilists of the Euzians. 2. The Resolution of the Podemos, of the EH Collectorians, and of the Eucobertist and Basque Socilists. Yeah? We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 65; the contrary, 8; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u56	So the resolutions of the 2-way have been accepted. After that, we'll vote for another two-way resolution. Together with the 11th Podemos, Euskal Socialist and Eubertist 38, and together in Podemos. The resolution, which has been made with the 28th of the Eucobertist and Basque Socialists, will be voted by two mediums. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u57	So they're unanimously accepted by two mediums. After that, we vote for resolution 14. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 65; the contrary, 8; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u58	So, we're keeping our resolution 14 now. And next time, we vote for the others. We're in Podemus together... We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 65; the contrary, 8; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u59	So the rest of the resolutions have been accepted. Next, we'll go with the USPPopulary team's resolutions. We'll make three teams. First team, one, two... We'll go with the EH Collectors. We're gonna make three teams here, too. First, resolutions 18, 21, 28, 29, 30, and 31. Yeah? What? 21st, 28, 29, 30, and 31st. Yeah? We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 18; contraries, 55; white, 0; abscessations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u60	So, they didn't accept the verdict. Next, another group: The resolutions are 9, 13, 32, 35, and 60. Yeah? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 65; the contrary, 8; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u61	So the resolutions we've made were accepted. And next, all the others. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting, the votes given 72, 73; the supporters, 29; the opposites, 44; the whites, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u62	So the rest of the resolutions were not accepted. Next up, we'll vote for the Euskal Potion Group resolutions. There'll be three teams. First Group: One, two, three, 14. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting are 72 votes, 73; the supporters 8, the opponents are 65, the whites are 0, the abstainations 0, 0.,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u63	So, they didn't accept the verdict. Next, another group: 4, 7, 9, 10, 13, 15, 16, 18. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting are 72 votes, 73; the supporters 8; the opponents are 54; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u64	So, they didn't accept the verdict. And next time, we'll vote for all the others. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting are 72 votes, 73; the supporters, 19; the opponents are 54; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u65	So the rest of the resolutions were not accepted. Basque Socialists and Eubertarians vote the resolutions of the teams. We'll make three teams here, too. First Group: 11, 12, 14, 17, 19, 27, 33, 35, 37, and 43. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting are 72 votes, 73; the supporters, 62; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; nobstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u66	So the resolutions we've made were accepted. Next, we vote for another group, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, 10, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 30, 40, and 44. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting, the votes given 72, 73; the supporters, 65; the opponents of the enemy, 8; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u67	So the resolutions we've made were accepted. And in the final vote, we vote for the other resolutions. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting, the votes given 72, 73; the supporters, 65; the opponents of the enemy, 8; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-13.u68	So the rest of the resolutions have been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-eight.
