ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The other proposition of the law given by the Parliamental Group, in order to avoid the state of poverty which monomary families may suffer. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Housemaid, the representative of the EH team, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. At the present day, in the Esquire Autonomy of Euscalia, there is not a single institutional definition which can be applied to families of one house or one parent. This government which is so fond of comparing with the other countries of the Spanish state in Katalunia, 2011 in Gaul, in Aragoin and 2018 on the Balear Islands, within these laws and decrees of family protection, will be known to be the only parent of one parent. We do not here clearly know who the subject is, and in what cases we shall consider the situation of a single parent. Who do you think constitutes a family or a situation with only one parent nowadays? Do you consider the domestic units which have decided to live alone according to the choice of one's own motherhood? Or, for example, those who develop only motherhood by reason of a pregnancy which does not live together with the unpredated and the biological father? Or do you suppose that the houses where widowhood has become extinct are as such? Or those who were given to the mother in her division and to watch over her? Or if your father abandons all marriage and responsibility? Or are parents, by the impossibility of living together, such as by the process of migrations, monoparent families? Or jail? Or do you want me to kill you? Or do they make monoparent families for the parents' kind of employment or not being together? Or is this the reason why violence is separated from the machista, when it is a monoparent family? Now, the common answer of each of you answers to the criterion of each division at present, because there are no divisions, there are no decrees, if you think of any of these families, which do not appear in all places. In the Spanish State, 10 percent of one-father families are formed. In the case of the Esquimic Autonomy, the data is smaller: and though it grows larger, we would move at five percent, and the 82 women, who are either composed of them or are women in charge of them. The 68% of single-parent families are composed of two member members (the adult and the minor member), and 27% of the three members. And it is necessary that this data be observed, because the principal help adapts itself to the second percentage, to those who are minority. We must add that the problem is not so many children, but that the presence of one grown-up person, and those units of three persons, in general, are recognized as equal to many families; but, as we have said, most of them do not respond to this profile. 43% of the women who have single parents houses are out of jobs, 17% have a kind of job, but they don't have a contract. These families have the greatest degree of relative poverty. EDPS poreziari eta gizarte-premiei buruzko inkestan deskribatutakoa hitzez hitz aipatuz: "In considering the type of family group, the main deterioration observed between 2016 and 2018 is associated with the increase of poverty in single-parent families; in this group, the impact of real poverty was already increasing between 2014 and 2016, to intensify the alcyst line in the period 2016-2018, with an incidence of 15% in 2018". Do we need more research and information, Mrs Garrido? Or shall we proceed to the concrete work? This research also tells us about the incidence of the absence of welfare that has 47.2% of single-maritime families without stable occupation. Overall, single-parent families and couples with children account for 74% of real poverty cases in 2018, above 72% in 2016 and 73.4% in 2012. We can talk about a general deterioration in families with dependent children and, especially, in single parents. Again, do we need more data to get to work? During an operation on the data based on this investigation, this phrase was mentioned which will be left to the three groups which have not signed the transcriptal correction that we have arrived with Podemos together today. the means of need are greater. And here's the problem. We have recourse to accuracy, to combine the criterion, and to mark it in exact preparations, and you wish to wait for a supposed diagnosis which will be observed in Spain. Now, in order to prepare this proposition and the following discussions, I have had the reports of the Arrians, the diagnosis of the poverty mentioned, and the State of Spain 2012. a large study financed in the year, which makes suggestions of a single grown-up person with children, or of families composed of children, such as Savee the Childen specific memoir, Más que nunca studios sobre las monoparentas, percentratus de línta mnima. And I would like to mention the work that Sonia Carrasco, a doctoral thesis that talks about poverty and social exclusion from a gender perspective in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, presented to this Parliament. Do we have to keep waiting for Spain to legislate? Do we have to keep waiting for a diagnosis? If we already have all this on the table. Save the Children-ek aipatzen zuen, drink ikerlanean, in More alone than ever And we go on and on, and we can continue to give data on everything you're already collecting in research over the past few years. In the new work we're working with, the women we're working with indicated that their main problem was work, the second economic and the third was related to the housing. Ba, kasualitatez, Euskal Autonomy Erkidegoan irizpid-faltak arazo larriak exitzen ditu. As, for example, last year's news, in which it is specified, the Ararteko specifies, on Etxebide's refusal of the aid requested by a woman, from which information was requested on her file, and found that she had been subtracted 10 points, considering that she did not constitute a single parent unit, when she was, according to definitions of other groups. However, Ararteko considers it inappropriate for each department or body that is part of the Basque public administration to maintain a particular view of what is to be understood as a single-parent family. Furthermore, it defines that the situation of single parenthood should not be established solely on the basis of sons and daughters, which is what is being done today, but on the basis of the recognition of their economic dependence. By the way, Mrs Garrido, explain to your fellow banker, who I think is explaining to you at the moment, that yesterday we voted for a proposal submitted by your group, which called for single-parent families to have specific support when entering the Basque public university, which both Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu voted for. But let me explain to you today that, since there is no definition, there will be no family type that can be adapted to that aid, because in the Basque Autonomous Community we do not yet have that unified criterion. So I ask again: We keep looking at Madrid, and we'll leave everything to the executive and political instability that's there, and then we'll let the families depend on it? Or shall we venture to cross the path which other autonomy members have taken, and to introduce this reality into our treaties and laws? We have no reason to worry about the poverty danger that many of these houses live in, and I can carry on with my data. It's a big problem to combine the business and the life of the family. 68% helps a certain extent, but these helps mostly come from their friends and neighbors and when they have them, from their mother's family. Women who have single parents houses are the only supporters of their families, single ones, or masters, economics and logistics. And that brings a great risk of poverty with him. Let us examine what kind of wages we are speaking of now, the dignity of women's labor, and add this to our present subject. What's coming out of us? Well, as Savee the Childen says, we leave all these women more alone than ever. And today we won't take any steps to get ahead of these families in order to improve them. As governments and groups which support it have constantly repeated in this parliament, the family police need treaties. We must look for agreements, and we have found only red and negative lines. No one has made any movement except Podemos, and we are grateful to the attempt really made, because I think we've stopped with a decent suggestion that won't be able to get ahead of us. Because we reformed and redesigned our proposal. Look what the first proposal was, and what a middle course we brought to-day. We speak of a covenant bound by this government, and of a family covenant. And in it, in words, we say that the familiarity of the family will be given a reverence and support: "As in the advanced societies of our environment, they are more plural, more variable, more complex, and even more fragile." "This letter begins in the family structure, in the course of familiar life, and in the knowledge of these profound process of change in the midst of the family. And he seeks to have the same rank of respect and protection as all those family structures." Ha! At the moment when we brought in any concrete proposal, you said no, and you want to keep looking at Spain. "We don't see him." We don't see, that's the only answer we've received. I asked you to answer questions and explain them, because I'm still uncomprehending. The alone parentality, the lowness of the parents, and the lack of the policy of securing and preserving children for a long time, causes many families under the care of women to be reduced to such a void by family and nettle. They call it EAPN, the loneliness of women. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, they're not supermen, but we're not at the level of their wants. They're fighting, and we haven't been able to fight the agreements they're going to put in the center of politics. They're women, they're mothers, they're guardians, they're pretors, they're employees, and we're forcing them to be supermen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days to all. Today we are discussing a proposal to address the urgent need for single adult reference families to have the necessary measures to deal with their difficulties. And we are discussing it, first of all, recognizing its specific needs and its specific needs, to have particular actions that will allow them to access levels of well-being and exercise of rights, which, in some way, support, from equity, families that start from an obvious situation of disadvantage of departure, with regard to their ability to access, enjoy and exercise rights. Because that's what politics has to do. Public politics, the system, have a duty to direct the difficulties and difficulties produced in these families. Nay, more, in many of these cases, when they are in great need of help and protection. The institutions are still configured under the premise that the family is a monochromatic institution, composed of mother and father, and this makes public policies adapt to this collective imagination and leave unprotected to all those who emerge from the statistically most frequent. Last week, in this atrium, I was talking myself about what Elkarrekin Podemos is like a family. And no, I'm not going to repeat myself again. But I do want to influence the idea that it is essential that we agree on a concept; because, without that, we can be pacting, building or making policies without foundations, consensusing policies with different ideas about who will receive them and lead them; and that very much conditions their success or failure. With single or single-parent families, the same happens if we do not start from a common definition. Are we going to make the best policies? I do not believe this, because, for example, there is a common element, which we can and must all assume, on the one hand, because statistics are demolishing and do not give rise to any other consideration and, on the other, because it is indispensable to do so, and it is the fact that single-parent families are headed mostly by women. Specifically, 80 per cent of these families are headed by women throughout the State. In Euskadi, the figure is 82%, according to data from Eustat. That's why the gender perspective – and I hope we don't disagree on that – the transversalization of a feminist look, is indispensable to address what we mean by a single-marital or single-parent family. If we look, for example, at the etymological root of the term, Latin parens Do we agree on this? I don't think so. Are they or should they be considered or benefited just like large families? There are advocates that it should be done, as an urgent way of accessing benefits and considerations, because so far the type of single-parent family is absolutely forgotten. But there are many who say they have their own characteristics and should therefore have a specific treatment. And I ask: do we agree on this? I don't know... Should we differentiate between the situation and the condition of single parenthood? Do we agree on this? I don't know; I don't think so either. The IV Inter-Agency Family Support Plan of the SAE defines, within its objective number seven on family diversity and intergenerational relations, action number 42, which states: "To agree on an operational definition of situations of single parenthood. To promote a government agreement that sets out the criteria necessary for the determination of situations of single parenthood, which can be applied to all actions of the government." Interestingly, this action is neither scheduled nor anticipated. Therefore, we do not know when we can expect it; but it is indispensable. That is why we believe it is good that we are able to address this debate in this House today, because, without a common language, we cannot make progress in the common sense: the penalty is that everything points out that today is not going to come out more than there is already. For Elkarrekin We can, dialogue and name is fundamental, but always-always-always-provided with content. We believe that it is essential to define and name, but listening to those who know. We in this House are a mere tool, and in addition to agreeing on a term here, we need to be able to build a framework that protects these women and their daughters and children, that protects single-maritime families from the precarious reality they live in. And to address all this, for us it means to address an adaptation of resources and services, so that this definition includes rights that families do not now have equal access to, are not being recognized, or are much less recognized than other families, or with an impact that separates from what they need in their day-to-day lives. And it's urgent. The Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey puts on the table demolishing data: 19% of people without well-being are women, compared to 9% of men. The 9% of those in real poverty are women, compared to 4% of men. Of the population living in real poverty in Euskadi, 15% are single-parent families, and more than 30 are in the absence of well-being. But if we look at the specific data of single-parent families under the age of 45 without stable occupation, which are unfortunately the majority of single-parent families, almost 60% are in poverty, and more than 80 in the absence of well-being. Eta horrek ekintza azkarrak eskatzen ditu, guraso bakarrak aldea batera utilten ari baikara. Izan ere, kontziliazio-dekretu berriek aste kopurua ludatzen due, bai, éta azpimarratu beharra dago, bathe ez diet guasso bakarrak dituzten harrei zainduta iziko aukera berberak ematen, soylik bigarren guasso bat izizagatik. But it is also that the Family Plan, which should take all the diversity and concrete actions for single-parent families, names them 14 times, but only appoints them, pure and exclusively, to adapt economic aid, an issue that we know is not always scheduled, not always budgeted and not always works. Because, in fact, The first has to do with the measures that make it possible to access in conditions a catalogue of resources and services from equity, that is, by putting everyone what they need, so that they can exercise rights on an equal footing. The second, the one that has to do with participation, because this cannot become a 'everything for her without her'. To approach this definition without having single-parent families, and to address a normative adaptation, we have to do it with them, we have to do it with the feminist movement, we have to listen to the professionals who know, who experiences the difficulties and who has the needs, and it is good to leave it for later. In trying to reach an agreement, we are faced with some difficulties which, for our coalition, are merely a reflection of the little or no will to take steps forward: First of all, because if we talk about the difficulties that legality can cause, of not waiting for the state definition, the less surprised I am. Surprised because in Elkarrekin We can firmly believe in self-government, and honestly they are for these things for which we have self-government. In Euskadi, there is a family law, which, within the current legislative framework, as for example the Balearic Islands have done, could contemplate a definition of what are single-parent families, but not only; there is a specific title, for example, that accredits the status of single-parent families in Catalonia, Cantabria, Valencia, Aragon and Nafarroa, but in Euskadi one cannot talk about the subject. Curious. We, Mrs Arrizabalaga, agree that state legislation is incomplete and obsolete, but why not take steps here if there is nothing to prevent it. Secondly, it is slightly stated that there is no need for a catalogue of services, because they are given the same services as large families. And again I'm surprised, because I think we all share that large families and single-maritime families have very different needs and characteristics, and even very different potentialities and realities. Therefore, in our view, they cannot and should not be homogenized, because we will be hiding a reality and marching with an automatic pilot on an issue in which many women and their daughters and children are, as Save the Children defines in their report, more alone than ever. Making, as proposed by the People's Party, a diagnosis of reality that we do not have clear, defined or consensual, will be a further diagnosis for the photo. There are data, but why not move towards concrete policies? Taking advantage of the turn of reply, Mrs Garrido, I too would like you to explain to me why yesterday in the monograph in the Committee on Education there is a proposal that is not brought here today. In short, we believe that continuing as we have done so far, but what we seem to do, will continue to leave us with worse data on all the scales for these women; it will continue to reproduce intergenerational poverty and build patches instead of comprehensive solutions. But go ahead with propositions or agreements so that nothing changes, in which you neither listen nor talk to anyone. We will remain open to agreements and proposals that really improve, in which the protagonists of the policies have a voice. Eskerrik asko, Mrs Etxebarrieta, for the generosity of having taken into account Elkarrekin's contributions We can to your proposal. I think it is a good agreement, and it is not too late to act coherently and to act head-on. To vote in favour of this proposal would be the best option; because, frankly, the closure seems to have more to do with not accepting proposals that do not come from you than with the meaning or not of making progress for single-parent families. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u5	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Well, surely, with regard to this and the subject, the things we have in common are more than the differences. I shall begin here to read the medium proposed by EHG and Podemos. And, to be honest, I think my proposal is more accurate, but, well, read... It says the transaction signed between the EH Bildu and Podemos group: "In line with the basic principle of recognition of family diversity, which is included in the Pact for Families and Children, a work process is undertaken open to the participation of entities and associations that defend the interests of single-parent households, feminism, the fight against social exclusion, poverty and children's rights to define a concept of single-parent family and in a situation of single-parenthood, ensuring a homogeneous approach for the entire Basque Autonomous Community". Well, in the approach I would make a few points, both to the wording and to some issues to which reference is made. And, when it is said that the participation of some entities, of some sectors, we could certainly also expand the list... But, well, with regard to this point, I do not think it is wrong to talk about a previous study and an analysis of the situation of single-parent families in the Basque Country, which is what the initiative of the People's Party is about. Then we talk about "developing the appropriate legislative changes for the effective development of implicit rights to the consensual definition of single parenthood". The People's Party, in its proposal, talks about measures; therefore, you are already talking about legislative amendments, but we are talking about measures. There is also talk of "presenting a catalogue of specific resources and services derived from this new definition and legislative incorporation, matching them with those of large families, before the end of the current legislature". This was also the demand, basically, that contained the initial proposal of the EH Bildu group, and to us, of course, it seems necessary to advance in the recognition of the reality and the problem of single-parent families, arbitrating measures – and now I will refer to addressing the difficulties these families have, especially in the area of conciliation and in the field of housing – but I do not think it is appropriate to talk about matching two realities of absolutely different families, such as single-parent families and large families, which have nothing to do with their needs. Moreover, when we talk about the needs of single-parent families, on some specific issues, we also need to go beyond what has been done or what is progressing with the specific group of large families. I therefore believe that talking about mere equality or equality between the two groups is something that is not accurate and that does not correspond to the reality of the two groups to which we are referring. In Spain there are 2 million households with single-parent families and 80% headed by women, where the parent is the woman, and, Euskadin, berriz, hemen aipatu den bezala, % 5 of the age emakumeek osatzen duten familien kopurua % 80.2 da. As we all know, stop thinking Indeed, we must move towards specific measures that respond to the many needs; but, as I have said, above all these specific needs and problems of this type of family and which, in the successive studies and diagnoses that we have been able to read and study and that we have at our disposal, tell us about the particular vulnerability of this group, especially in the area of conciliation and in the field of housing. Five autonomous communities, as has been said here, have adopted some kind of regulation in relation to single-parent families, some through specific laws, but not everything has been through laws, but also through decree; as has been said here, they are Catalonia, Valencia, Aragon, Navarre and Cantabria, and also Madrid is taking steps in this direction. But, before, also in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, it has been considered necessary to have a diagnosis and a study prior to the formulation in a normative text of concrete measures to help and to fill the deficiencies that this group may present. I therefore believe that our whole initiative or amendment tabled is more accurate than the compromise amendment. We are clearly talking about a diagnosis of the situation of single-parent families in Euskadi, with their needs and, once we have had that study, that X-ray, what those needs are, we can promote the necessary measures for their situation. We believe that this text is much more accurate than the compromise amendment, which clearly tells us to equate the reality of large families with single-parent families. We also believe that it is more accurate than the amendment of the whole tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, in which, moreover, the Spanish Government is directly urged to incorporate single-parent families into the amendment of Law 40/2003 of 18 November 2003 on the Protection of Large Families. It is therefore the position of the People's Group. Nor do I think there has been much rapprochement with regard to trying an agreement, because the intention of the two groups that have signed the compromise amendment, in the end, or the objective was to include in the – let us say – stage of the realization of the definition of the concept a number of already rated collectives, which obviously we understand could be included, in any case, many other collectives. And, of course, we do not agree with what is ultimately sought, which is that mere equality between large and single-parent families. As it is written, Mrs Guanche, that is what is understood. I believe that they are different realities, that each has its own needs; on some issues, the measures being implemented will be similar, on others not. On the other hand, I have to point out that the last IV Family Plan does refer to the reality of single-parent families, with specific measures, and so much so that this group, and bearing in mind that one of the difficulties accompanying single-parent families has to do with the scope of conciliation and the specific difficulties they have in reconciling personal, family and working life..., we have already proposed, in those initiatives which bore them so much, that, when regulating surpluses, families in a situation of special vulnerability are taken into account both in the child-to-child and the day-to-day surpluses. And I also have to say here, fortunately, that I also believe that, thanks to the momentum and constant work of this group to demand action in this regard, there has been little progress on the part of the Government. I therefore believe that, in addition to losing ourselves also in statements and in texts that seem to be going nowhere in the end, because it seems that no agreement will be reached in this House, we must also get down to the ground with concrete measures and, as I say, concrete measures are to help families by putting more money, trying to raise the amounts and the percentages of aid, as I say, by this conciliation in the specific area of the reduction in working hours and by the dependent children. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u7	Yes, thank you, President. Today, in this first item on the agenda, we are discussing an initiative on measures to prevent situations of poverty that may be suffered by single-maritime families. According to a survey conducted by the INE in 2017, the number of households in Spain has increased by 0.3%, but single-parent families are among the highest: in one year, households made up of mothers and one or more children increased by 3.2%. It is a growing type of family, having grown by 24% since 2016, spraying the 2 million households. Although they are called single-parent families, they could be called single-maritime families, since the 82.7% of these households are headed by women, hence the leadership of the initiative. 66% of women in charge of these families have a young profile and are under 45 years of age, with three different realities: separated, divorced women and single mothers. At present, there is a problem and it is the lack of a unanimous definition of the concept of single parenthood, in the absence of state legislation in this area and the existence of legislation only in several autonomous communities, as the different parliamentary groups are showing. But they're not even the same between them. There are also large differences between the benefits that these single-maritime families can have in some autonomous communities or in others. What is clear is that more than half of these families are or may be at risk of poverty, a figure that contrasts with 28.1% in general of the rest of the families, since 52% of the women in charge of these families may be unemployed and do not have another income or additional salary at home. Situations of precariousness and job instability, as well as child poverty, predominate in these households, although the mother works. This is why this type of family has been demanding in recent years greater protection, equal treatment in rights with large families and greater tax benefits. And that is why my parliamentary group considers it essential to push forward state legislation for single-parent families. The pioneer was the Community of Catalonia, by decree of 29 September 2009, which developed the legislation of single-parent families, equipping them in rights to large families, being president of the Generalitat the socialist José Montilla. In other communities governed by the PSOE, such as Andalusia, it was legislated by granting such single-parent families tax benefits and given access to different services. In 2016, it took place in Valencia the equalization of single-parent families with large families, in fees, choice of educational centers, train discounts, benefits in the IRPF... In Madrid, in 2017, the Socialist Group presented an initiative to recognize single-parent families a number of benefits and deductions, which was rejected. In March 2018, my parliamentary group presented at the Congress of Deputies an initiative to assimilate single-parent families to large families. And it has been included in the Socialist Party election program both in April 2019 and next November 10. Therefore, with this alignment, we, as I have pointed out, in the various initiatives that we have been defending, fully agree. We understand that the concept of single parenthood must be regulated, however, in a state law, so that there is equality in its definition and in the determination of situations of single parenthood, with those rights recognized in all autonomous communities being applied, which can at best be improved, but we start from a common minimum equal for all. The Family Support Act of 2008 does not contain a definition of single-parent families. However, in our autonomous community, although we do not have a specific law, it does not mean that we have not been doing things. It is true that things and policies have been done to help, and precisely to help, these single-parent or single-mother families, such as preferential access to employment programmes, socio-occupational integration of RGI holders with direct family burdens, within the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan, within the measures of the IV Family Support Plan, in the economic aid for reconciling work and family life, and reduction of working hours, increasing the amounts to single-parent families. And in the income guarantee income reform project, treatment of family units with dependent minors is improved and a specific supplement is established for single-parent families. On the other hand, we do not see the need to draw up a catalogue, as proposed in the original initiative. We must continue to make progress, however, on this path. But we see more appropriate our amendment to the whole, the amendment that we have signed, with the Basque Nationalist group, the Basque Socialists, where "the Parliament urges the Spanish Government to incorporate the amendment of Law 40/2003 of 18 November 2003 on the Protection of Large Families, so as to include single-parent families". "The Basque Government is also urged to reach a consensus on an operational definition of single parenting situations". And it promotes "a government agreement that sets out the criteria necessary for the determination of these situations, so that they can be taken into account in the actions carried out by the Basque Government". On the other hand, we agreed with what the People's Group has proposed to carry out an analysis of single-parent families in Euskadi. We have tried to make a deal with the People's Group; it has not been possible to... So what we are going to do is defend our amendment as a whole, the amendment signed by the Basque nationalist group and the Basque socialist group. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u8	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all. Well, I think it ought to be a different tone in this matter, by removing it from the maxims, and acting with care and influence, and by which we are based on our present attitude, care, care, and influence, which we believe to be perfectly legitimate and, well, even though we do not like groups, that is our ground to-day. In May, 2018, he introduced Eplegu and the Department of Police Society to assist Familias in the Federal Organization. The plan. Hence positive policies were established for families and children. As respect for family independence is based on the policy of answering contact through the plan, which leads to the defense of weakness and weakness, and to the process of production, and to prevent childish generation. I'd like to Highlight Familias' support IV. In order to accomplish the plan, many institutions, the entities of the third sector, the experts in the study world, and many collective institutions had contributed. In the process, the Esscal institutions, even last year, signed the Euscal treaty for Family and Children. What's the result of that job? Euskakia is the most economic game for family aids. In families who have children, ours are the only aids of the state which have subjective and universal right. Now the Fourth Organizationary Society for Familiary. The plan is to give another step to the present and future wants of the euscal families, in order to have a better cohesion and comfort. What's all this about today's business? It has been proposed by EHG, that the monoparental families, or the prevention of the conditions of poverty, may suffer. And the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Family Support of Euskadi, to which I have mentioned, has as its objective number seven family diversity and intergenerational relations. It is marked as this goal number seven, to support and protect the diversity of forms and family ties, to promote intergenerational relations and to recognize the contribution of grandparents to the care of their grandchildren. Its actions are as follows: "To agree on an operational definition of situations of single parenthood" and "to promote a government agreement setting out the criteria necessary for the determination of all situations of single parenthood, which can be applied in all actions of the Basque Government which consider this situation in some way". And it can be said, in relation to single-parent families, that in today's society the traditional nuclear family is becoming less and less the reference model for the family – as Mrs Guanche said – and there are more and more homes but they are smaller. In fact, only one person lives in one in four families. And although the most numerous type of home continues to be that of a couple with sons and daughters, the one that grew the most last year is that of single-parent homes, formed by one of the parents and children, showing the social and family changes that are taking place. As I said, single-parent families continue to grow: single adopters, divorces and/or separations, parents using artificial or natural methods to have unmarried children. 81.3% of single-parent households are actually single-maritime households. There are 1,500,000 households made up of a mother and her children, compared to 350,000 in which it is the father who lives with the descendants. However, the number of parent-headed households grew more than twice last year, 16.9%, than that of mothers with children, 6.3%. In two out of three of these households, the parent lives with one child and, in the case of mothers, 38.5 are widows, 36.4 % are separated or divorced, 13 % are single and 12 % are married. Considering this reality, what can we do to guarantee and support the welfare of the families in this situation? We've made a few proposals through the corrections. I want to explain ours. EH Collect said the genus works a lot when we talk about monoparent families, we're talking about a reality with a woman's face. We share that reflection. But we'd like to explain how we organized our corrections. First of all, we were asking the Spanish Government to introduce us in the change of the 40/2003 law of November 18, which is a fundamental law, and unfortunately we are not involved in it. So that the concept can be defined, the monoparents or monomaryals, all of them, there is no problem in this subject. In the present plan of the Family, there are no paragraphs on certain specific collective families (those persons who have a family or a single parent), but as such persons and families are subject to a special protection, and there is the key, which enables the development of our jurisdictions, to represent actions within the wants they require. Therefore, in our jurisdictions, I repeat, they are burnt. The Fourth Family Plan recognizes preferential access to employment and socio-occupational integration programmes for persons with income-guarantee income who have direct family burdens, who integrate into a single-maritime family and those integrated into large families in situations of special vulnerability. The implementation of services to reconcile socio-occupational integration processes with the care of children, with special difficulties of conciliation, and the promotion of the legal and economic measures necessary to improve the conditions of persons in a situation of economic precariousness, as a result, inter alia, of the widowhood or the non-payment of compensatory and maintenance pensions laid down in the legally approved agreement, or judicial decision, or in cases of marital nullity, legal separation, divorce, termination of the couple of acts or processes of filiation or food... The casuistic is very varied. The Housing Master Plan also proposes a number of significant actions to promote the emancipation of young people through access to public-promoted housing, as well as to address the housing needs of groups such as large or single-parent families. The specific measures contained in the IV Family Support Plan have already been mentioned by Mrs Sánchez – I will not repeat them – and I do not think she mentioned measure 34, as regards the improvement of the treatment of family units with minors under the Basque system of income guarantee, as envisaged in the proposal for a law of the GIR, and all these measures, if they are envisaged, Mrs Guanche, of course they are envisaged. And, indeed, they must be provided with a budget, with funding. We'll meet in 15 days. Okay? The budget debate; that is the time. With regard to measure No. 42, it also envisages consensus on an operational definition of single-parent situations, promoting a government agreement setting out the criteria necessary for determining single-parent situations, which can be applied in all actions of the Basque Government which consider this situation in some way. So our team, in our rectification, asked him to take steps to get an agreement about the operating definitions of the one-sided parents, and to encourage him to do so, which will establish the necessary criteria for the determination of those situations, which will be able to account for the performances of the Eucommy. And in this we could either join or agree with the original proposition, but not in the way that the Basque People are gathered together and the Podemos plan, or in the form. We do not have to wait any longer; we have to be effective, Mrs Etxebarrieta, to be able to give answers to these women, indeed, and not to devote all the forces and all the resources to technical changes continuously, and to the adaptations of the laws. Why do we not use what is already in our hands, which is already competition, to work on it? Therefore, the times are important; hence we understand that it is much more beneficial to continue working on the line in which it is being done, and hence we are going to defend our amendment today. And in the meantime, as I said, it's just fun and nothing's done. In the current decree, independently of the parental consent, of the consent of the fathers, improvements have been added to the families who are in a state of impalpability by increasing the 30th of the corresponding amount. The fun is aware of the situation in which the whole family is in, and that's the reflection of the initiative I've expressed in a very summarized way. If so, we see the best way to defend our amendment this evening. As I have said, so are actions, so many modes, which are not the form of the Basque People, and which would love Podemos together? Well, it may not be in this case; but it is, in our opinion, the most careful and most effective. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing by the answers, Mrs. Housemaid, representative of the EH Collectors, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u11	Yes, thank you. Mrs Garrido. The only answer we received was "que no lo vos." That was the only answer we received from you, the one. And on my e-mail I'm going down the phone, but on the first e-mail, that's what you got on Monday, I said: I think we have a deal, because when we examined my innocence and corrections, we thought we could have a deal, that is, what I've done, but we're completely open to change any subject. And I don't think it's the Parlamentian who's ever put a problem with changing a coma. So now you come down here to tell me you'd put more people in here? Well, you could've said it at first. Now you're telling us, too, that you think there's a problem about how it's written, what do you understand that we want to match? And we agree with you: we do not wish to compare states, but are preparations, and how these preparations are given, because this is the figure that is already doing, and that we have attained to it. Because today, when only one parent has two children, it is considered as a great number of families, not in all places, and that is why we took possession of it, because we do not believe that we are starting from the same situation. That's what we agree with. So you could have told me all that Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or when you wanted it, to discuss it and make a deal. The deal seemed to be between you, but we don't have it either. What we think, with your proposal, is that we have the paralysis for analysis, because it is back again to bring in proposals for us to analyse the situation, when it seems to us that we have quite bloody data on the table, which tells us that we have to take action now. But, of course, I'm going to ask you a question: when we then put that analysis, who are we going to analyse the situation? What are the families that we accept as monoparent or monoreal? Without definition, we don't even know who we're about. For I ask again: Do we now consider the family of a single parent as monoparental by the process of migration? Yes or no? There are no definitions here, and here we find the main problem. Yes, of course, he's in several schemes, but, for example, in the news we've brought, the other said: as there is no clear definition on the consideration of the monoparents, there is trouble in the department, and that a woman who was a widow did not admit of a monoparentity because she had ever been married. Yes, the monoparents are included, but this monoparental person or family, because it seems that we can agree here to accept him as a monoparental, since the Housing Department, being the property, didn't admit it. If we don't have a common cricket, we can introduce monoparental on any planet we want. Mrs Sánchez has told us about different proposals that have been made in autonomous communities, which we share. In fact, we brought them here as an example. And in Madrid, you put forward a proposal, but today you are going to reject a proposal similar to that which you brought to Madrid. So, well, you'll explain to me why here, not in the other one. Similarly, as Mrs Guanche ended, the problem lies in who brings that proposal. And we asked you a question about the points we had given you, because we didn't understand the difference between the second point of our proposal given by the Eubertists and the Socialist Party. And I'm still waiting for an answer. We asked, we received no answer, and today we did not understand the difference between the one and the other. And the problem is not whether monoparent families consisting of women or composed of men are accepted. That's not the question: The situation is that there are many monoparentity situations and you've all placed them on the table. And the problem is, all these monoparentity states are not yet considered at the time of their reception. So that we brought in a very exact proposition, and had to do what we had to do from the beginning, that is to say, must be settled in the laws and agreements which are according to this crime, if there be no change, and yet we were open to it. But we do, and it was to bring in a special wallet, to know what right people in that situation have, because they don't know what right they have now. In the pages of their pages and the pages of their associations which govern them, they try to decompound what they can get and what they can't, and according to each or every one's division, and not how far they can ask for and how far they can't. Well, we'll continue today as usual. It is said that some of us here have put no proposition on the table, and I think that since Monday our intention was to make an arrangement here, and I repeat: We have not found any other proposition in our proposal; the only one we have found is that I am going with mine, and I believe that we shall not be able to obtain the promise, protection, and confession which these families require. And I, at least, have come down to-day angry and very sorry, and I have spoken that way, and I think I have every right to talk as I please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Miss Guanche, together Podemos, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Let's split it up, Mrs. Garrido. His proposal is more concrete, yes, but it starts, in our consideration, from mud foundations; because, if we do not understand the same, we will not build the same, nor will we be able to diagnose it with a common sense, which is sometimes the least common of the senses. Surprisingly, you have had the opportunity to build an agreement; you have had the opportunity to bring your own, and you have not wanted to. You may not have listened to me, but when we talk about matching in our amendment, we talk about having access to resources and services, so we ask for the catalogue. That is, access to resources and services in a specific way: that is not the same as following or comparing one family with another. I assume, because I consider it to be the honest thing, that perhaps the wording could have been more specific, but you also know that when you seek to reach agreements among all, sometimes you have to leave hairs on the gurney. You didn't want to contribute, you didn't want to move; you just said you don't see it and so here we are. I have no intention of re-editing last week's debate, and here with you I will leave it. Mrs Sánchez, for a moment I thought we were in an act of accountability for the PSOE, rather than a plenary of the Basque Parliament. With you having so much will and your party's tremendous record, why haven't you made a craze of reaching an agreement? Because you haven't even answered. I insist: the state definition is necessary, indispensable I would say, but let us also be honest: is it possible? Is it possible right now? Can single-maritime families in Euskadi continue to wait? Really? Well... Mrs Arrizabalaga, you demand another tone; I think I have been quite calm, but what I do have clear, and that is what I am asking is that this issue needs serious and shared consensus and impulses, and I am sorry, but I think it is urgent to sit down and talk, and not just budgets and not just between us. I believe that there is a need to listen and I believe that addressing the problem of single-parent or single-maritime families requires going further, and I believe that it is essential to have a precedent that not only says the Government, a precedent that we share and that we agree on; because, in every process of consensus-building, it is essential to have a common language, and that is the only thing that we have come here today, from generosity. They have named both Mrs Sánchez and Mrs Arrizabalaga the income guarantee income as a current and possibly future example, with that terrible law that we have right now in debate to help single-parent families, and I am sorry, but I deny you the greatest of both. And I deny them the greatest; for, not only do we go forward, but we go backward. About eight or nine years ago, when Lanbide forced you to take a training course, he provided you with conciliation tools, an issue that was cut off about six or seven years ago in the Basque Income Guarantee System and that today is neither in nor expected of him, so in the current one we are not providing single parent or single parent families with better measures to enable them to reconcile, because one of their greatest needs is conciliation, and public services and resources are not being provided, you say what you say. And the reform of the GIR that is coming and that we have right now in debate: yesterday there was an expert feminist lawyer, who advises cases of income guarantee income in at least four organizations, who told us clearly that single-parent families, with this reform, will be left worse than they are. So please don't come here and say things that aren't, because that reform doesn't contain a gender perspective; it uses language that is widely out of date and that has recognized it to Emakunde, and therefore, with that basis of departure, will not help any family, statistically ordinary families or single-maritime families. We do not agree that everything is done well; but, however, because of consistency and because we believe that addressing measures for the rights of women and single-maritime families is necessary to address it, we are going to abstain. Now, I also have to say that this is possibly the most absurd debate I have had in this House, because we are using the same arguments to say that we disagree. And, in the meantime, families remain the same and all because they do not sit down to address a consensus, an issue that I honestly do not understand, and I would like to be explained to me in their turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u15	Yeah. The truth is that this group and this parliamentarian is also quite perplexed, because it seems that here there is nothing in relation to single-parent families, there is no definition, there is no concept of single-parent family; there is a clearly defined definition in the dictionary of the Royal Academy, and measures are taken in relation to single-parent families... Look, so much so that, in the motion we discussed a week ago – those family motions that bore them so much – this group has already proposed to take into account the reality of single-maritime families, as well as the numerous ones, such as those that have some member in a situation of dependency or disability, or with some person who is the victim of gender violence, both for the surpluses to care for each child under three years of age and also for the reduction of the day in the case of situations of special need. And what a coincidence that the groups here today want to be at the forefront of the defence of single-parent families voted against these two initiatives. You, the group of EH Bildu and the group Podemos, voted against two concrete measures to favour groups with greater difficulties, in a situation of greater vulnerability, to promote conciliation measures, which is precisely whether you have read the studies and diagnoses and the reports or conclusions we have regarding the situation of single-parent families, where the problem lies. Therefore, this is a total hypocrisy exercise. We are told that there is a consensus with certain associations, which you understand to have to do with the definition of certain concepts in this House; but then, when we bring in concrete measures, such as these, which were voted here last week, you vote no. So much for the single parent family and much for the single parent families should not be. Look, yes, indeed, yesterday in the committee we proposed a concrete measure, but it is that today you are not proposing concrete measures, and at all there is no contradiction, which does not contradict the concrete measures that I put forward last week in committee in the conciliation field, namely yesterday in the Committee on Education, in a specific plan, that the Basque Government include the concept of single parenthood in the university field, so that people in this situation can benefit from a more specific treatment. Of course I do. In the field of family and family policies, we want single-parent families to be able to have specific support and to take care of their special circumstances. Of course I do. That is why we put it in two paragraphs last week, which you and you voted not to. And yesterday, well, by chance, because the wind would overlap on the other side, it seems to be from the south, and they voted yes in the educational sphere. But it is complementary to the speech we had yesterday with which we held last week in this very rostrum. That is, what you propose here today is a radically different thing. First, they speak of an open participatory process, that is, I repeat, with the entities you consider, closed entities... Why don't they expand those entities? Why don't they expand them? I, when I have proposed to expand the number of entities and associations that have to participate in the concepts that you want to define, that I believe part are already defined and that we do not start from scratch, are the entities that you consider. Sure, when you talk to us, I don't know what you meant. I have to stick to the text I've been handed over. But it clearly says this: to equate it with large families; that is, to equate the reality of single-parent families with the reality of large families. That's what you put in your text, Mrs. Guanche. I therefore, as you will understand, do not agree with this initiative. I cannot agree, when I believe that the reality of large families and the reality of single-parent families is specific, which also has specific characteristics and therefore needs to be addressed in each of the areas. Therefore, concrete initiatives, those of the People's Party, which you voted no last week. And yesterday, as the wind blew on the other side, it seems that from the south, we continue with the wind from the south, because it seems that you voted yes. But don't come to us now with debates that you want to raise or that you want to do here: approaches I don't know if philosophical or approaches I don't know what type, which are also unintelligible, because they don't understand; the wording of your first paragraph I have had to read it four times, I have had to read it four times, because you don't understand what you mean. In the end, in order to define a concept that ensures a homogeneous approach, I imagine that, when Mrs Artolazabal proposes measures in the field of single-parent families, she already has in mind what kind of family she has to address. I imagine at this point... Another thing is that, if a specific area and a specific law are regulated, or in a specific decree, it is defined, as is always done in all laws, and the scope of the application of the law is expressly defined. That is a different thing, that that will be done in respect of each normative text. But do not come to say here that there is no definition of a single-parent family, because we are taking measures aimed at single-parent families every day. In the last decree, too, of which, as you know, some aspects have been criticized, such as the issue of voluntary leave for non-pregnant parents, and which seems to be that we also understand that the Government has to rectify, after the term of office last week in this House, because measures are also being taken in line with the people's party in favour of single parents. I mean, we already know which group we're going to. Do not come to us here now to discover that, as you arrive, we will have to start defining each concept because it was not defined. I don't think it's that, either, though, well, I praise you for your momentum and your desire to do things, but I don't think we started from the bottom either, but here too there is a tour in some subjects, which you should know about. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u16	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u17	Let's see, let's see. There is a definition or there is no definition, of course, as we have said, things have been done, and policies have been implemented to help this group. We have asked you to support our amendment as a whole, because it reflects, in the amendment, the equalisation of the large families you are asking for. But we do it in a certain way, and it is by putting it into the law of numerous families of 2003. That is why we like our amendment more and we defend it, and we do not like its proposal. In the plans that have been approved in the legislature in different areas, you have said that we must talk to everyone. You don't seem to talk to anyone, if you don't put it on an initiative. But let's see, if in all the plans that are being carried out throughout the legislature, we talk to the different groups, there have been consensual plans in all kinds of matters. But you want to give the image that you don't talk to anyone if you don't ask directly for you within the writing. And that's not the case, because when you do things, you talk to the different collectives. You, Mrs Guanche, say that I have made a relationship, that it seems that I wanted to make a relationship, of all the things that the PSE has done, but to you what bothers you is that you cannot make that relationship, because you have not done it and we have, and that does bother you. Then, you are in Madrid and you there could have also promoted a state law on single-parent families. They didn't. Why didn't they? And the lords of Bildu exactly the same, they haven't. So, you come here to show that, thanks to you, something is done, but actually what's behind it is that you haven't done anything anywhere. And that is why we asked him to support our amendment as a whole, to support it by the different groups. Mrs Etxebarrieta, you say you don't like testing. But if you, the EH Bildu group and the Elkarrekin Podemos, are the kings of the request for reports! If you've pulled three years out of the legislature asking for reports for everything! And you say "paralysis by analysis no." And what have you been doing throughout the entire legislature? We've been asked for reports of all kinds of subjects, and now he comes and says, "No, I don't like it." Man, they could have thought about it a little earlier, because they've been asking for reports of all kinds for three years. On the other hand, in the case of income guarantee income, what we are proposing is that, of course, we want to move forward and discuss this proposal for a law, a proposal for a law on income guarantee income that includes improvements, that we are in the process of drafting amendments, and, if you want and want to make amendments to enrich or change certain articles, you are at that time. But you are in the rejection for rejection, in the non-discussion at all of the amendments or of continuing in the process. We've been trying to reach an agreement for over a year. We have not been able to reach agreement; we are in the process of drafting amendments. Make the amendments, we will discuss them, and hey!, as in all the debates in this House, when you see a bill or a bill, because the bill that comes in is very different from the draft that comes out; because, through the amendments, many things can be changed. So, if you want to put concrete things in, do it where you have to do it, which is there. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u18	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u19	Thank you again, Mrs. President. I'm not going to say that neither today nor today has Mrs. This is not true, and it is lawful to say, as he always did: he has given us all a choice. But in this case, though the same end, as Mrs. Guanche has said, the startings have been extreme. This is at least a classic between our parties; target shared but starting extreme. I've been trying to explain our attitude to you these days, but it looks like I haven't been very good at it. After all, what is the most important thing for us here? Government is forming the law of many families. He's working on it, and we all know that. In that new law, which is a fundamental regulation, it was asked that you also define and include one-sided families. As this is a fundamental law, we should adapt ourselves to our regulations. We all know what kind of human resources it would be, what time it takes to carry them all. So what do we think? What can we do in the meantime? We have our own instruments, the Family Covenant, and the Family Plan, and we are in it; and in them, in the matter we have of our hands, we have set many actions in motion. That's what we're defending. So we think it's the best thing to do today to defend our correction. Indeed, I think, as Mrs. Guanche said, the discussion does not amount to much more. And I'd like to say about yesterday's Board of Education that you talked about, and I was there, no one was there but I; forgive me, among the people who talked, yes? If, then, there is any doubt about it, he must go to the formation of the meeting. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and half-correction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 26; the opposites, 45; white, 0; Abstension, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u21	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u22	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Finally, we'll vote for the full corrections made by the Basque Socialists and by the Eucariats. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of the east, 37; the opposites 8; the whites, 0; Abstations, 26th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u23	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced together by Guanche Suáz to the parliamentary members of the Podemos, concerning the improvement of the conditions of the inhabitants of Euscals. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Bollain, members of the legislature representing Podemos together, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u24	Yes, ma'am, thank you, ladies of the board, members of the legislature, all good days. Duuela pare bat this lehendakariari egindako interpelazioan nire kide Tinixarak argi laga zuen moduan, 2018ko EPDSan agertzen diren datuak ezagututa, bi abiadurako Euskadi baten aurrean gaudela ondoriozta dezakegu; auzo, ferri, lurralde edota familiaren arteko gero eta polarizazio hadiagoa erakusten duen Euskadi, hain zuzen ere herritarren arteko arrakala hadiagoa agerian utilten duena. He also said that we must go back to the year 86 in order to know data of this magnitude, and he said that there are almost half a million people in this country, whom we all represent in this House, who have difficulty in meeting the expenses that allow them to have an adequate standard of living. Figures that worsen, and much, compared to 2016, data that worsen, and much, compared to 2016, despite the growth of the economy and despite the fact that we are dedicated to amortizing debt. Data that show, in short, that in Euskadi there are many people who do it wrong in their day to day, who do it wrong, because they can not eat meat or fish once a week, that they do it wrong because they can not turn on the heating in these hard winter months or that they do it wrong, simply because they have a garbage job that does not allow them to reach the end of the month. And those people, who we sometimes treat as simple numbers, as percentages, as figures, we are all, because we can all need powerful public policies that protect us in the future. And I think there is no need to penetrate into the data, for they are already known to you and to us. Yesterday, at the door of this house, the few who represent the Social Cardians showed themselves to beg EAJ and PSE to give up the income of the rent. On the 17th of October, in the international convalescence of the poor, hundreds of operators and unions in the third sector also demanded a retreat of reform and a search for real solutions, to end up with poverty and not with people who are in poverty. And we, like Elkarrekin Podemos, have said it actively and passively: They are not worth the usual solutions, because these protection systems have holes and people are falling for them. People we owe to and have to protect among all of us. People who do not access protection systems: nothing more and nothing less than 60,000 people. And people who, even within the system, do not come out of poverty: more than 70,000 people, 51.5% of the total number of people accessing. And this is very serious, 51'5%, i.e. more than half of the people accessing the social protection systems in Euskadi are still in poverty. We cannot but say that the risk of poverty in Euskadi has increased by 9% over the past two years. Or that the risk of serious poverty in Euskadi has increased by 5.3% over the past two years; it is that the data do not deceive, and this data is also government data. Euskadi has clear challenges for the present and for the future. And with this motion that we are presenting today, we intend to have an approach to them. A preventive approach, because knowing in advance the challenges and problems that we have to face as a country, there is no point in providing ex post facto solutions. And I say the next economic crisis, because in this respect, too, the data speak for themselves. There is a constant downward revision of the economic growth forecasts for Euskadi: in 2018, the Basque Government's forecasts told us that GDP in this year, in 2019, was going to grow by 2,3 %. On Tuesday, we find the report published by BBVA Research, which in May 2018 predicted a 3.1% growth for Euskadi, and now lowers this forecast to 1.7%, i.e. six tenths below the initial government forecast and 1.4 percentage points below its May forecast. We also note with concern the fall in external demand, the fall in domestic demand and the savings of families, who seek to have a mattress in front of the devastating economic landscape that draws the data. What does this mean? That companies cannot sell their products and services; therefore, they lower wages or lay off workers, who, in turn, cannot continue to buy products and services or save money to deal with possible unforeseen events. And that is why we are putting on the table a proposal that is ambitious within the framework in which we are playing. A proposal that has the necessary elements to build a social shield that protects citizens from the economic crisis: First, we want this House to show its shared concern about the data collected in the 2018 Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey. Secondly, we call for the creation of a comprehensive shock plan that addresses the consequences of this worsening on citizenship; because, if we do not, we run the risk that the crisis will impact in a disastrous way on the social majority of this country. This shock plan, as I said, is integral and would necessarily have to carry out four types of actions: Firstly, specific actions to address precariousness and poor conditions in employment, as well as temporality and the wage and social gap between territories and between women and men; because, without these steps, we will not be able to reduce the gap between the two-speed Euskadi, and because we cannot talk about equality, without reducing precariousness in employment, without promoting reconciliation and co-responsibility, and without promoting a fair distribution of employment, both in the public and private spheres, because we know the high rate of conflict that this Government has between fundamentally feminized sectors, and we also know the risk that it poses to our economy that other sectors, such as industry or metal, are at a low level. We are going to face a new economic crisis in a very different situation than in 2008, where we almost tripled the unemployment rate of a decade ago and where family savings are neither expected nor expected. And it is that without good conditions for the working people there is no progress possible, but only the suffering of an economic crisis, which will be reaped, once again, with the same people, with the social majority of this country. Secondly, specific actions aimed at addressing the adequacy of protection systems, with a view to reaching out to all those in need. And this is inevitably due to the development of the housing system proposed by the 2015 law, as well as to the immediate development of the Social Services Act, which is, careful, of the year 2008 and, even 11 years later, its decrees, tools and the financing system are still pending. It also goes on to address the reform of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, in a key to progress and development of tools to cover people who, at present, within or outside the system, are still in a situation of poverty; a reform that is oriented towards improvement, that is oriented towards progress, not the reform that you have on the table; because, frankly, it involves cuts and a framework so narrow that a new economic crisis would blow up the entire Euskadi income guarantee system. And I say this now and quite clearly: this system has its years numbered, because it gives no more of itself and a paradigm shift is needed, just as various countries are exploring it at a global level. For example, Finland, the Netherlands, Scotland, France, the United States, Canada, India, or even with a much smaller budget and skills than the Basque Government, cities like Barcelona. We must explore systems that guarantee and deepen the universal right to protection, in the face of policies inspired by assistanceism. Because, in the face of those who insist on setting limits to protection, whether defined in terms of maximum access times, or in counter-performance measures, it is important to point out that access to a basic income that ensures survival under decent conditions is not a social perversion, but a right that can be demanded. Do you believe that in the 21st century a social concept that dissatisfies a large part of the population in need, or that, if it meets it, it does so by receiving it as different and with a social debt for the benefits received? We certainly don't think so. And honestly, and it's not something new, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we consider that the only way to fix this that we have on the table is for you to withdraw this proposal of law and, among all of you, to build a framework that will serve us to be at the head of the world, along with so many other countries that I mentioned earlier, as we were in the early 1990s. We need to build a framework that allows us to create a more just society, a more egalitarian society and, above all, a society of free citizens. And I continue... [Ura edan du] Finally, specific actions aimed at improving the capacity of Basque youth to develop their quality life projects in conditions of autonomy. All this as a proposal for a social shield, allowing citizens to be prepared and allowing those who have lost the support mattress to do so without risking irreparably falling into social vulnerability. And, finally, I wanted to reiterate myself on an issue that we have repeated many times since Elkarrekin Podemos, but above all what people, associations and trade unions, who are experts in this field, are asking for. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the Basque Socialist Party, it has become clear that they have no support for the reform. We sincerely believe that, as we have seen, it would perhaps be good for them to withdraw this proposal for a law and for the next legislature to address this central debate for all Basque society, from the premises that allow us to obtain a political consensus in silence, to strengthen the social protection system, just when we need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u25	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u26	Thank you again, Mrs. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. It is true, though the title of the proposition was another, that we had such debates several times, and that we had but a short time ago an argument of this kind, and that this party especially thought it proper to bring here the last agreements which have been made upon this subject, because they were proper. It is true, as Mr. Bollain has said here, that the stage is not good, and that, looking at the Basques, what the last facts say is that they don't seem to be good news. The latest data from the EPA clearly say that the number of unemployed in the Basque Country increased by 5,600 in the first quarter; unemployment has increased by 6.5 compared to the previous quarter, compared to 0.50 in the national average, and that Euskadi is the autonomous community where unemployment has risen the most – it is the fourth, specifically. To this we must add, as Mr Bollain rightly said, what has to do with the declines in economic growth forecasts. We already have clear signs of the slowdown in our economy, a drop in consumption. And, in this sense, today is the time when this group, the Group of the European People's Party, wants to reaffirm itself in maintaining that the best social policy is employment. Hoberena Sozial Politika, Alderdi Popularrarentzat, en plegua da, éta horretarako bideratu edo sustatu behar genituzke behar diren neurriak, Helburu hau lortzeko. On the other hand, we also firmly believe that, if the best social policy is employment, on the other hand, it is also necessary to create a scenario that is conducive to employment generation. And, in that regard too, and seeing the surplus of money that the Basque Government has had in the past two years, we have also considered it important to introduce reforms to the income tax of natural persons, but with concrete proposals, and to return the money to the citizens' pocket, after the efforts made in times of economic crisis. I thought it would be convenient for us to recover the signed agreements here. And therefore, at the same time, we have said that the agreements we have made here ought to be fulfilled. I am referring to two specific agreements. One that has to do with a shock plan for the long-term unemployed; in that sense, we already approved on October 10, 2019, that is to say, a little while ago, an initiative that talked about promoting a new permanent shock plan to adequately care for and insert the long-term unemployed. We were talking about a specific protocol; we were talking about systematic coordination in collaboration with the development agencies and the whole of the current guidance system; we were also talking about Lanbide; we were talking about guaranteeing employment plans. It's a long initiative and therefore I'm making a summary... We were also talking about promoting the inclusion of recruitment criteria for long-term unemployed people in all public contracts; we were also talking about enhancing tools for the certification of skilled knowledge acquired by workers through work experience. In other words, we were talking about a shock plan that had the budgetary resources necessary for its correct implementation. We were talking about that its duration would be three years, expandable according to demand, and after conducting an evaluation. Therefore, we were also talking that Lanbide should carry out a continuous monitoring of the plan. And, well, I believe that in this initiative and in this concrete agreement – I say initiative – which was discussed in this House and in this specific agreement, there was already talk of a concrete plan of shock for the long-term unemployed. That is why we felt it was important to get this agreement back. On the other hand, another agreement was also reached with regard to the situation of young people, which is another of the groups really splattered by unemployment. Many have difficulty finding a job, and others, those who find it, are in a situation of job insecurity; let alone those who seek opportunities beyond Euskadi, in the rest of Spain, in other environments that have more opportunities, such as Madrid, Barcelona –now, obviously, less – but provinces too or nearby regions, such as Zaragoza or Valencia, or also as they go to other countries of the European Union. In that regard, we were also talking about the worrying situation of young people when they were emancipating themselves. We were talking about narrowing the wage gap for people under the age of 30. We were also talking about housing and concrete actions in the field of housing and an operational plan, as I said, an action plan, an action operation, to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi. I therefore understand that these issues have recently been discussed; the latter also on 17 October 2019 and, therefore, we have understood that it is appropriate, seeing that they are also unanimously adopted in this House, to call once again on the Basque Government to comply with their content. That is why, Mr Bollain, we considered that your initiative was rather a response to these realities, and the response to these realities was, as I say, reflected in these agreements that we have brought to this House today, to urge the government again to comply with them. On the other hand, there was one collective that left us with these two initiatives, and we did see that another initiative had also been adopted in relation to another group with special employability difficulties, such as women. In that regard, we urged the Basque Government to take action in the area of employment policies, with the aim of expanding women's employability and access to the labour market. And finally, as I think it is a recurring issue in this Parliament by this parliamentary group, things are as they are. We all know that there is a proposal for a law, which was finally decided to be presented by the groups; it is being dealt with in this House; we are in the process of appearances. But we do believe it is appropriate that, apart from the relevant legislative amendments and the demanded amendment of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, and the commitment of this Government to have submitted a bill, which was not then so, it is true that, apart from the specific legislative amendments, as I say, and which are currently being dealt with in Parliament, it is appropriate for us to continue to insist on this issue and to continue to urge the Basque Government to remedy the shortcomings that – I believe everyone agrees – exist in the management of the economic benefits, which there are, and we are seeing them, in addition, in numerous reports which are referred to this House. And, on the other hand, also in something which I think is coincidental and to which Mr Bollain also refers in his own initiative and which has also been referred in the successive agreements to which I referred earlier, which is to turn Lanbide into an effective service to get a job. When I say that we become or become Lanbide an effective service to get a job, it is clear that it does not currently work effectively to get a job. And by responding to the rest of the amendments, we believe that ours is more accurate because it refers to specific agreements, it addresses the situation of groups with special vulnerability to employment (long-term unemployed, young people and women). It also refers to the protection system, the operation of Lanbide or the malfunction of Lanbide and the need to remedy all these aspects. And the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party, I think, is somewhat continuistic; it does not raise any self-criticism, and, in that sense, we obviously consider our whole amendment more appropriate, which is the one we will vote on and which, in principle, is the one that we consider to be relevant to addressing this matter. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u27	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u28	Thank you very much, President. We are going to discuss a subsequent motion for an inquiry by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, concerning the improvement of the living conditions of Basque citizens. We were able to hear, in the plenary on 11 October, Mrs Guanche's speech, in line with previous interventions, presenting an apocalyptic picture of the living conditions of Basque citizens. We have also just heard a similar speech in the previous point, and we have now heard Mr Bollain. And what I'm saying is that we're not in an apocalypse, much less, we're not in an oasis either, but they have us used to their apocalyptic discourses. Other autonomous communities envy us for the income guarantee system we have, for our housing law or for our social services system. Of course, we must continue to work on improving and advancing protection in our autonomous community, but we do not share their catastrophic image of the current situation. And because we want to continue to improve, we have initiated a reform of the Income Guarantee and Inclusion Act, through a proposed law. Steps must continue to be taken to combat job insecurity, the wage and social gap, in the development of our social services system. We agree, we have done so in recent years. And so, the Basque Government approved the strategy and operational plan to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi, at the Governing Council of 27 November 2018: The strategy sets the goal to be achieved, so that in the 2030s Euskadi will be among the five countries in Europe with the lowest wage gap, and three challenges will be met: eliminating wage discrimination, reducing occupational segregation and deepening education from and for equality. In addition, economic resources are allocated: EUR 283 million between 2019 and 2020. And the content of the strategy and operational plan will be developed in coordination between the various departments of the Basque Government concerned, an inter-institutional group and the Euskadi Social Dialogue Bureau, the Forum on Wage Breaches in Euskadi. The Basque Executive, in its 11th Legislature Government agreement, has a commitment to promote effective equality, and this document was therefore presented, since the wage gap is one of the factors that reproduces this inequality between men and women in our society and it is important to eliminate it. And to combat that wage inequality, which is a complex and multidimensional problem, this plan was presented; but, hearing you, it seems that nothing has been done, that there is no plan in this matter. We have already discussed on several occasions the magnificent results of the campaigns that have been carried out since the Labour Inspectorate and the Department of Labour and Justice since the beginning of 2017 in the fight against labour fraud and the irregular economy. Recently, I highlighted the results of that campaign, where conversions of temporary contracts to indefinite contracts and part-time contracts into full-time contracts have been achieved: between January 2017 and early October 2019, 47,461 contracts had been revised, and 15,270 contracts converted, more than 15,000 contracts. And in addition, it began in July 2018, started, by the government of Pedro Sánchez, at the state level, the Master Plan, of the Labour Inspectorate, for a dignified Work 2018-2020. I'm not going in to explain this plan, because I've already done it on other occasions. The increase in the results of the Labour Inspectorate has been achieved with a small increase in the number of inspectors in the workforce, because the results have been improved using better the big data crossing tool We must also continue the deployment and development of the Basque System of Social Services, complying with the Strategic Plan of Social Services, in order to consolidate the Basque System of Social Services as a universal system of public responsibility. That is why we consider our amendment to the whole, the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, which urges the Government to continue the deployment and development of the Basque System of Social Services, addressing and implementing, in collaboration with the other Basque institutions, the provisions of the Strategic Plan for Social Services, with a view to consolidating this Basque System of Social Services. The Basque Parliament also urges the Basque Government to develop social inclusion policies, from a cross-sectoral perspective and with an interdepartmental articulation, as envisaged in the Fourth Basque Inclusion Plan. And also the Basque Parliament, in order to implement the improvement of the Income Guarantee System and for inclusion, considers it necessary to deal with the proposed income guarantee law in Parliament. At its initiative, the proposing group, Elkarrekin Podemos, called for the elaboration of a shock plan, which addresses job insecurity, temporaryity and the wage gap, but it is that this operational plan on the wage gap already exists: I have just explained it in my intervention, and with regard to the reform of income guarantee income, it is already presented, and it would be positive, as I said in my intervention in the previous point, that the amendments be presented, once the appearances in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy have been completed, and that we can discuss and enrich the text that is being presented at this time; for that my parliamentary group is fully open. They also want to include shock actions for women over 65 years of age, single-parent families and families with children. We have just discussed single-parent families, and you are asking for a shock plan, where you mix some subjects with others that are included in different plans, and also, in turn, you are beginning to ask us – we are already seeing that you are starting to ask for recent initiatives – that, apart from this shock plan that seems to be in this more global initiative, or you are going to start now asking for your shock plans. Because we see that, in an initiative recently presented by you too, you are either going to ask for or have asked for a plan to combat job insecurity in the care sector. So, let's start now, apart from asking for the global shock plan, let's start with your shock plans, shall we? And then, we're going to hack this shock plan into your shock plans, and, to us, this way of working doesn't seem the right way. The EH Bildu Group has not tabled any amendments and I therefore assume that they will support the original initiative. We will already hear it in the speech by the EH Bildu group, which we have not yet been able to hear because we have not tabled that amendment. We have tried to reach an agreement with the People's Group, through a compromise amendment; it has not been possible in this case either, so we considered... we proposed to change the proposal of the initiatives they put forward; we felt it more correct to refer to initiative 60/2018 than to 95/2018; we considered that motion 25/2019, as regards young people, was already being made, and they also urged the Basque Government to take the necessary measures to remedy the deficiencies in the management of income guarantee income. But, well, those measures, in order to remedy them, are already contained in the proposed law that is presented, and what we have to do is enter into the processing of it, bringing all that we want to contribute. That is why we will support our amendment as a whole, the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u29	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u30	Chief of Parliament, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Together we took Podemos's initiative in improving the conditions of the Basque population in his name, and even if this should require a longer photograph and comment, it was founded on the Incension of the poor and the Social Difference, I myself shall be able to reflect on this examination and to reflect on its consequences. And about this, the first thing to be said is that each sign is of importance, but that it is of no use according to the convenience of a sign or a certain tendency, according to the convenience of a political discourse. We must place the result of each indicator in a larger context, in order to influence the root of the problem, and thus to interpret the cause of those results which will serve to plan our answers. The slight increase of poverty which this inquest teaches us conceals the immense effort of protection in the most difficult context, and we ought to put it into value. In addition to the poverty of the other 70.48 persons, the income for the security of money, the system which is composed of additional preparation for the housing, and the systems of social anguish, has not only reduced the effects of poverty in the other 70.348 persons, but in 2018. 66.1919 from this poverty, more than 62,1% of the population to observe in 2008. In the distribution of the data of Euscataia poverty, it must be observed that the incretion of Eurostat and poverty and the incencies of well-being must be connected with the general dynamics of the Basque society. It may also be remarked that in the time of 2016-2018 the euscal society has been distinguished by a society which has been the rise of money, and the number of populations which have had full access to well-being, or almost complete access to it, has increased. The results of the different measurements of poverty and well-being are thus observed by the promotion of money and of the chances of life connected with it. The general degree of wealth, measured by raw internal procedure, is the indications associated with the perception of a society which continues to expand for a long period. In the same way, it may also be observed that the improvements of the poverty of the extreme may be found in the Incension of the Poolity and the Social Difference. Of these latter indicators, the most striking is that of the musketeers (that is to say, of water, light, telephone etc.). In this case, the mean of the injured person descends from 2 to 1.4% between 2016 and 2018. The special significance, at the same time, is the reduction of the indicator of the material, which is called AROPE during this interval of 2016-2010. Since the year 2000, after 2016, with a 6,4%, reduces to 6.6%, and is already approaching 5.2% of 2014. The transition of this indicator is very significant, for it was among the most developed members of the crisis. AROPE Indicator, for those who do not know, is a kind of indicator that measures the lack of goods, resources, or services, which are widely diffused in the society of one's society. In the European context, the inferenceal impact of the crisis, in the southern countries of our continent, has aided the difference of the position of Eucharadia. Nevertheless, the extreme poverty of the Esquimia of Eukamia Ere, in 2018, is preserved from the 28th of the European Union and the 18 countries of euros, as far as 5,1, 6% of Europe. Reality is related to the maintenance of the lower grades of difference in the 2018. The coefficient of Gini of Euscatachia Eprodumia, in 2019, is placed under four points of the European Union, in the twenty-seven, in front of 26,7, 30,7, and 3,7 in the countries of euros. It must be mentioned in the sight of 26,7% of 30,4%. As everyone knows, in that coefficient, the lower the better. Thus, without denying the decline of the crisis, the dynamics of poverty-adiers, more than a social crisis, show a great ability to face the consequences of the crisis, a sign that this system has not been exalted. In this context we are informed that the rents of money, the supplementary preparation of the housing, and the systems of social anxiety, maintain its level of protection between 2016-2010. From this Illust, we believe that the improvement of the present protection system, prepared in the proposal of the change of the system for payment, would enable a diminution of the distance between the still existing protection and the necessary protection of the present system. And, contrary to what some want to understand, it would not be an indication of the wants to oppose the failure of a social policy, but a progress for the improvement of a population army, as different as they are in a rational process. In this sense of improvement, the results of poverty produce elements for reflection. especially in the context of the new postscriptal societies of the century. The following would be: one, more than the prevention of poverty itself, the existence of factors which render the acquisition of acceptable degrees of well-being difficult for a group of citizens; two, the want of stocks, and the elevation of families whose resources are capable of improvement, are the decisive elements of dynamics which must be considered between 2016--2018 years, with the surrounding countries, and even with those of North Europe, and the high rate of the expense of the three families. The conclusion is that the situation is not bad; we are a plentiful and cohesion of society; but, as the incest informs us, we are obliged, besides the extremes of poverty, to facilitate the entrance to the well-being of the citizens placed at the frontier of poverty and well-being. And in order to accomplish this, our party believes that all possible improvements will be brought to it, or that they would have it, and with the resources and changes they can bring, that even the present ones are strong enough to resist it. To this end we should mention three axes: one, on the one hand, that we must extend and develop the euscal system of social services, in conjunction with the rest of the Basque institutions, in keeping and fulfilling what had been foreseen in the Expedition of the Social Services, on the other hand, the policies of social society must be developed by means of an intersectorial view and a series of departments, according to the plan of the fourth Euscala; and the third, in order that we may be able to establish and secure the revenues for the sake of the establishment and the welfare of social revenues, in order to improve the purpose of setting up the system, and in order to obtain the general arrangement of the demands which have been created, and to pursue the necessary settlement of this law, we call on the basis of the revenue and security of the law. These are the points of the correction we have proposed to this enterprise, and if we do not find a better one, we shall receive them to-day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u31	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn that hasn't run any corrections. The wife of the Kortha, the representative of the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u32	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good morning to all. Well, it seems like we're going to be out there today, between the relativity and reality that we're trying to install to ourselves again, because it's in the ping-pong play. I must admit to you that when I followed the interpenetration from this motion, I was astonished to hear the chief of the department's words, as I was astonished at all the remarks which have been here this morning, and the tone in which they spoke. With them, too. And with the tones used here in front of the proposals they make, I was amazed at them too. But that's not the point today. As I have said, it seems to be between relatto and reality, in a great degree, the discussion of today. In this interpenetration the chief physician said that the conditions of the inhabitants of the Basque population have not been mistaken; that we are a prosperous people, that most of the citizens of the Basques live in a comfortable state of well-being, which is almost complete, and that only 6,1% live in a state of poverty. But with regard to the conditions of life in which we are now living, our data seems to indicate a different reality. And I've been studying these facts with attention. I have other nondescript interpretations, as the chief physician used to say, and I took part in these interpretations in the technical manner organized by the divisions of the chief physician: It's a technical practice, not a political one. Eta have entered a nuenez, since although slightly up, real poverty reflects, above all, a stabilization line since 2014, standing at 6.1. Baina porezia-arriskuak gora egiten du erkidego honetan: 172,307 personsona zeuden porezia-arriskuan Araba, Gipuzkoa eta Bizkaian, 2018an, 2016an baino % 14 gehiago eta 2018an baino % 41 gehiago. Since the measurement of these terms began in 1983, there have never been so many people at risk of serious poverty in Euskadi. There are positive facts, Mr. Faraway, and we will not deny those who are around the nutriment and those who are about the supply. But it raises the number of people who don't satisfy their base expenditure. And it is established in historical maxims, the number of people who must not or should not pay rents, mortgages, and credits, to increase 4,1%. But above all, the number of families which cannot respond to a surprise is raised. "Sien 5 gipsos los hogues que no pueden hacer frente a un gasto imprevisto." Up, too, the number of people who have difficulty in keeping their house in a proper temperature during the winter, to the highest degree in Europe. But not only that: The absence of well-being has also been greatly increased by the difficulties which the citizens have to save. We are faced with an upswing that brings us back to 2004. Almost complete well-being falls, and increases well-being at risk. La incertumbre to enteros en Araba, Gipulia y Biscaia. In the same way, while all their fellow-men are at work, the state of those who are in a state of real poverty increases, and especially the number of those whose members are not well-being at work. Data which, from our point of view, offer little room for doubt, and which reflect, in a crude way, the consequences of a job with low, intermittent wages and an unwanted partiality. But that wasn't mentioned by the counselor! Even the chief physician did not mention the facts that women live worse than ten years ago in this community, that poverty is worse if you are a woman, and above all if you are the head of a family with only one parent. In 10 years, real poverty has increased from 34% of households headed by a woman to 50% of those headed by a woman. We talked about that this morning. Even when you're young, it's worse. Though the chief physician said otherwise, this discussion was the next week's discussion, and this Parliament corrected what the chief physician had said. And the situation of over 65 years of age is not to be omitted, for these are extremely disturbing, especially in the case of women. And poverty continues to accumulate in families with children, where poverty rises. Do you remember that one of the first commitments taken to this legislation was to reduce poverty to 20%? Remember that one of you guys here? There is also a rebound; you mentioned the AROPE indicator, but also the data indicate that there is a rebound upwards of the inequality indicators and there is a rebound upwards of the Gini indicator, which breaks with the trend that has so far been to reduce inequality. And Mr. Bollain has mentioned the details about the housing, and the data on the rent to ensure incomes. In order to add something, I must also say that the distance of the people who hire incomes to ensure the maintenance of money has been raised to the part of poverty, four points have increased, so that they have become more and more difficult to get out of it. And the chief physician did not speak of employment; but, as the enterprise we are speaking of is also to reflect about employment, it seems curious not to me that the chief physician of the field of Artolalls should not look into Europe in the matters of employment. It's clear that if we look at Europe, we'll see perfectly well, as far as unemployment is concerned, that we'll find ourselves in the trucks behind us, and that we'll soon see, for a people with our fortune's level, that it's a high rate of 10% of unemployment. And this must be added to predominance, and to the data of equity. FOSSA supplied it, gave CRLs. Up, too, in our own country, the cracks between men and women. All of them over there. And some of you have also mentioned the Law of the Social Services. It also shows that the last poll shows that families have more and more difficulty, and that families who have a person in custody and dependence must seek a life in the private market to satisfy these occupations of care. And if they can do all that, we've seen that they're 8,000 families in this community who can't properly fill the watches because they have economic problems. And that's what you want to put on the color of what you want (red, black or gray), but this is the reality of this town. This is the reality of this people, without political interpretation. I mean, this is just the portrait that was given us in this technical practice. Eta horrek ez du esan nahi interpretzio katastrostroskoak egin behar direnik, éta ez du esan nahi also do not have to deny the fortresses. It is true that we occupy a very good position in the state context – with exceptions – and that in that look at Europe, as I also said, with some nuances, because we are also well positioned. But the evidence of the existence of worrying indicators and trends cannot be denied either. You can't fall into conformism and self-congratulation. And as you said, this space to reflect, this space to improve: Where has hitherto been this proposition, or plan for deliberation, or the improvement of the chief physician of the Artolarills? They have not been, because they have denied these realities, and from negation it is difficult to suppose logical or real planning for improvement. We are chiefly informed by the fact that we are in the presence of a new reality, that we are not in the presence of a state of Communcture; that our people hold a state of structure. And that's how we should understand it. And we should also understand that we have received these wrong facts in a state of comfort or economic prosperity when the raw internal procedure was right. But we all know what's coming. We all know that. And we've seen that when the economy has recovered, we haven't been able to maintain it, that it has not been possible to maintain the welfare, and we're in the middle of a change in economic cycle. We do not know when these dark clouds spoken by the President will arrive, but it is clear that they will arrive, and we must make decisions before it is too late. Mire, yo de una chief physician I look forward to ambitious political analyses, which will lead to a new impetus to overcome inertia and regain political leadership and initiative, through the implementation of public policies that provide stability, protection and opportunities for people to develop their life projects. I expect forward-looking, adaptation and anticipation capacity, that, and I also expect capacity to work out agreements and complicitys to implement those policies, because that is what this people needs, to meet the challenges ahead. The second time I shall tell you, one by one, which is our position in these propositions or corrections of you, because it is a long time to speak of it, but I think, in the presence of one of the most important challenges which this people is looking forward to, and the President said, "Doing the ostrich," as he said, "has covered his face with his hand."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing on the answers, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u34	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. And whether I arrange it, what a lot of things I have to say and stuff on paper, so, well... Lehenengo, Garrido andereri: let us agree on the shortcomings that exist, but let us not think either that we will agree on the solutions in this regard. And we already know that you have a little obsession with employability, as if this were the panacea for everything, but I tell you, really, that a job of 800 euros a month for working paid 40 hours a week, I think it is an unworthy job for our citizenship, or an unworthy remuneration at least. I believe that employability for employability leads us to nothing, and we are going further, and we want a comprehensive approach to employment. And here, probably, because we do not agree so much; we seek quality jobs, sustainable employment and also a fair job sharing, with a view to a future where all the experts wish a destruction of net employment. The people's livelihood, Mrs Garrido, will not be able to be linked in the future to their employment or activation, because it is a link that has been broken for a long time. And, in any case, Mrs Garrido, the best social policy will be the best social policy; then there will be employment policies. Secondly, Mrs Sánchez said that we drew an apocalyptic image, and Mr Urrutia said that we looked at the indicators separately. I could pull out the 11 slides my partner Tinixara pulled out in the previous plenary, right? But the question that was asked in that plenary was what they are going to do with the EDPS data, and Mrs Artolazabal denied some data, as you denied them today in this rostrum. But, really, I've only given very little data today; I said that we have people who don't access social protection systems, and there are 60,000 people – the EDPS says, I don't say –, we have people, we have people, who, even within the system, don't come out of poverty, 70,000 people; more than half of the people within the system, 51.5% of people are still at risk of poverty or social exclusion, once the system acts. And then I said that the risk of poverty in Euskadi, according to the Basque Government's Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey, has increased by 9% over the past two years and that the risk of serious poverty has increased by 5.3%. The data are here, in the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities (Table 1, page 10), but it is that, if we see evolution, it is even more worrying. If we see the evolution with respect to 2008-2018, just before the crisis, we see how data from people at risk of poverty in Euskadi have increased by 20.2%, and people at risk of serious poverty, from 2008 to 2018, have increased by 64.9%, data from the Basque Government; I am not inventing them. And lastly, to finish, where I had pointed out what they had commented... It used to say Finland, Holland, Scotland, France, the United States, Canada, cities like Barcelona; to explore systems that guarantee and deepen the universal right to protection, in the face of policies inspired by assistanceism; to build a framework that serves us to be at the head of the world, as we were in the early 1990s. And for that it takes courage, and with courage we will be next door, but not to repeat the same thing that is being done so far and that we see that it is not working, that poverty rates go up, and do nothing to remedy this. A social shield must be put in place so that the next crisis does not affect once again the social majority, the most vulnerable sectors, as it happened in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u35	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Popular, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u36	Mr. Bollain, as I have said before, that we have discussed these undertakings several times, and have tried the precise proposals, in this House, and this Government has duties to promote precise proposals in the next few months, and a precise plan; so I said that we did not see your proposal from our party, we thought it was a repetition. But what concerns me here, and this group is concerned, is the vision of a lack of self-criticism by this Government, by the Basque Government. We believe that this Government remains installed in self-congratulation and that the data, of course, do not call for optimism. I believe that we have made a thorough review, apart from doing so in the specific debates on these issues and on the subject of employment, of one of the main concerns of the citizens, of the Basque citizens. We made – our president, Mr Alfonso Alonso, made – a comprehensive review of the situation in the Basque Country and how there are signs of alarm and how, in the face of these signs of alarm, this government is clearly looking elsewhere. We believe that it is a sign of obvious alarm the data – the other day the lehendakari – of the EPA: where unemployment has fallen the most there is in four autonomous communities, among which is Euskadi. We also believe that industrial job loss data are there and are important and, above all, are a very clear warning in an autonomous community that has eminently been an entrepreneurial community; not to mention also how the entrepreneurial rate is. Mr Alonso said in that plenary, not long ago, just over a month ago, that also where more employment was created last year is in the public sector, which is also a worrying sign in an entrepreneurial autonomous community. I regret that some, Mr Bollain, are annoyed by the slogan of the People's Party, "employment, employment, employment", but we believe that it is undoubtedly the best social policy. It is politics that allows opportunities. I would like to think that this was the objective, but I see that, as I am getting more acquainted with the discourses of some political formations, perhaps some are... or would prefer people to be cronified in certain situations and, for example, in the protection system, and not leave the protection system situation. I believe that citizens and people must be given an opportunity and what governments have to do – and in this case, that is why we have to turn our ears on this issue to this government – is to arbitrate the necessary mechanisms, when we have specific tools for this, competences. Because that is the exercise of self-government, exercising competence in specific areas as we have, and we have, for example, Lanbide; and Lanbide does not work well. Lanbide is not a reference for those seeking employment in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. You know that; we know that, and I think we all know that in this House. I therefore believe that, obviously, what I am doing is the criticism of the Government, that it should fall into self-congratulation, when we have the data we have, the figures we have and the services that had to be in favour of Basque citizenship and that do not work, because I believe that it is something clearly to criticize and to make clear. He has talked about another issue that this group is systematically talking about, which is the loss of talent we have in Euskadi. It's just that the young people are leaving us. Young people don't see it attractive to stay in Euskadi. They will study outside, which can be very good: to know the world, as far as possible go to other universities... But they don't come back; they don't come back. Many stay in other cities in Spain, because, I don't say in Europe anymore, there are cities in Spain that are much more attractive, and no longer just Madrid, there are many cities in Spain that are much more attractive than the cities of the Basque Country to work. And we have a young talent loss, which is quite important and quite significant. Of course, too – and I am finishing, Madam President – because I do not like this government to fall into self-congratulation when we talk about developments or impulses to certain subjects, such as the issue of social services. The other day we were talking about the decree of residential centers and how that decree has not been done well. In other words, development in the field of social services has come late and has gone wrong. In the area of the family, the measures are clearly insufficient and, with the latest decree, this House has called for redress to establish discrimination in the area of surpluses, in the public-private sphere. Or why not talk about the deficit, the problem, which we have structurally, with low birth rate, and the rate of ageing of the population we have that makes us have 1.88 workers for each pensioner, when it would be 2.5. When we have a deficit in the pension system last year of €4 billion. That goes for those who claim a social security system of their own. I'd like them to explain to me some day how we could do it. And we are also concerned about the family, for example, this year's latest data: 3,000 fewer students enrolled in children and primary schools. And not to mention and because it is a very extensive subject, but I would like to give a brushstroke of the protection system. We have a system of protection that has many failures...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u37	Finish up, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u38	... of course, it is not a fair system, there are not those who have to be, and there is no good management of the aid provided for in the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion and, of course, Lanbide is an absolutely ineffective service, which is neither in favour nor for employability nor for seeking employment for citizens living in Euskadi. I believe that the Basque Government must be aware of that, or should be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u39	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u40	Well, Mr. Bollain, we do believe that you do... I don't care to call it an apocalyptic account than a catastrophic one. They are doing so continuously, and what we are trying to do is to focus the debate on the reality of the policies that are being implemented right now. The data is there, and we all put it on the table. And what must we continue to do policies to improve? Of course, but we are all in it. What is clear is that poverty rates within our autonomous community have improved more than in other autonomous communities, thanks to our income guarantee system. That, indeed, has been acknowledged by all the experts and all those who have passed through this House. But we believe that we can improve it, and that is where we are right now. And, on the other hand, plans are being made to achieve better results: I have told you about the operational plan to combat the wage gap, I have told you about the campaigns that are being carried out in the fight against labour fraud since the Labour Inspectorate. You guys, what are you doing? Well, if we have a pay gap plan, like it doesn't exist, and they're asking for a different plan to be made. They made no reference to the existence of the existing operational plan. We are used to: if we propose a reform of the GIR, what do you say? I don't like it, I want another one. If we have a plan going on about a pay gap, what do you say? I don't like it, I want another one. Man, or I want to get ripped off, from now on, into smaller pieces. We are going to make shock plans, as I said in my previous speech, of different types of matter. To us that does not seem the best solution, but, obviously, what needs to be done is to draw up plans, keep them in time, apply them to achieve the results that they intend to achieve with that plan over time, and not to be proposing: now where there is a plan, now I want to be changed tomorrow, and I do not let it ever apply, I will not get results, because I want them to be constantly changing it, or cutting it continuously... And that, for us, is not effective. And that is why we will support our amendment as a whole. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u41	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bollain, two-speed Basque. I know how to get them out, too. The coefficient of gin, yes, yes. So what? Now you don't believe in coefficient Gini, that is, if it doesn't give down tendency, don't you believe in this? Oh, yeah? Okay. [She has shown a page] You're on board of Economic Development, aren't you? No, you're not? Yeah. In fact, I think this is... What I see is that we come very much to the social services, and I don't see them in economic developments, and here, to improve the conditions of the Basque population, other commissions and members of the committee ought to participate, because what we want is that we have social services, absolutely necessary, if it is to fall into a good mattress, but first we should not try to fall down. Different data, well, I'm not doing that data or on page 10. On page 11. Look, what I see is, in general, 5% of the poverty, 7% to 6,1%, and we don't deny it, which is responsible for us, of course. And even if we didn't raise four tens, we'd be worried about 5,7% to 5,3%, because we care about 700,000 people or a thousand people like you or more. Precity and so on... Look, I just heard an international expert in theory say that predominance was a great deal out of sistemicity, and I think that we should also change the sense of business, and that we should go to a model where property and work will be shared, and that would serve to root our companies in the country, because we'd be able to help ourselves in the enterprise. The reform of the law on the guarantee of income in terms of progress; well, we are waiting for their contributions. I would really like to see what you are presenting as keys to progress, and I do not think that is why we should wait for the next parliamentary term. This bill will have the route you have – I don't know, I don't dare make bets; I may be zero – but I would like to see what the proposals are to do in terms of progress. Mrs. Garrido, complacency; no, complacency no. It is that we have established mantras already of self complacency; self complacency no: they are data. And I think I have made three points in my speech that need to be dealt with and that the poverty survey is, in some way, asking us to deal with them. Management of deficiencies in the subject of income guarantee; well, I say the same to Mr Bollain: there is a proposal, very bad, deficient, insufficient, covers nothing; very well, everything you want... We are waiting for their contributions: so far they are not and do not seem to be expecting much. There are several comments on the division of power here and there of the courtesan. Have you noticed that you've been leading the chief physician all the time? I've said the things you said, the tendency to family expenses, saving problems, etc., etc., etc. But all the time you went to the chief physician and to the chief physician: That the chief physician does not reflect, does ostrich work. Can I do ostrich work for today? Yeah? Did I do ostrich work? Well, I'm glad to meet the chief physician, because I don't play free lines, and I think I've been thinking about reality, and I've even mentioned weak spots, and here nobody does ostrich jobs, and there's no one here who hasn't, and there's a few things we'd like to share, but I don't know if we have too many opportunities. That this is not a motion against the Government. If it were, it wouldn't impress us too much either; it means that, and that we were...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u43	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u44	Yeah, I'm gonna finish it right now. And that we were at the head in the early '90s. Well, yes, but if I do a memory exercise, I think that those of us who put this in the head were basically – basically, I never attribute all the merit as I never attribute all the guilt to myself – I think we were the same ones that today we propose something that is alarmingly labeled insufficient...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u46	Yeah. And, bukatzeko, the paradigm shift that some countries are making; for, well, we are not closed to any kind of reflection, nor about what is being done in these countries. But, I repeat, we are still waiting for your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u47	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u48	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, I, sir far away, of course, understand that you are lined up with the chief physician and that the chief physician himself, on the second round of his interference, had to accept some negative data which he had to do with, because it is necessarily so. But he himself was categorical, and said that the conditions of life of the Basque population have not changed. That's what he said. It is my decision here to whom I am addressing myself, and I have also addressed myself to you, for I have mentioned the things you have here mentioned. And in that struggle against prestitution, we should develop other business cultures and other relations? That will agree with you. That will agree with you... This is because this government has made this choice with Confebask, and this is not a mode of changing these relations; there is no planning here, and there is no other arrangement, no other relations, no other relations, even in this attempt to create them. It would be best if these proposals about economic development and these proposals to the protection of society should go hand in hand. Both of them go by the hand: that would be the best. And you have here said a number of things that were interesting, and I have mentioned to you: that reflection was to be done, that these analyses should be made on the way to improve... But I have not found them either in the words of the chief physician, or in the proposals which you have presented, because these facts are the effects of independent politicians; these are the effects of lessening and lessening readings; and these facts are the effects of the pretty readings, which do not correspond with the actual state. These facts are peculiarly due to this, and I believe that we need to decide inevitably. You made a few proposals here, didn't you? The Law of Social Services continuing to carry it forward as the strategic plan prescribes. Do we know how the social service plan is? For in the course of the 2017s, an evaluation was planned, and we're still waiting, I'd say it's done. That these interscregational posts and interdepartements are to be? Yeah. Why don't you do it? Why don't you fill out IV? What was proposed in the Plan Inclusium, though not in the Spirit? And as for the transfer of the revenues to support the revenues, I believe you have made it clear to me that your interest, or your need, is your own correction: That transfer. What is this reflection upon the consequences of this reality which refractory those data to us, this attempt to go, in that legal proposition which you have made? Where is he? We've been listening to Christ and two about this legal proposition about the systematic flaws that this legal proposition has, and we've been around it for a long year. If there had been any will to do so, there would probably have to be other attempts. The operators who came here, on the way to obtain this wide spectrum of your first engagement, made a very clear proposal, and also showed that there was a wide consent about five or six elements. What have you done about these proposals? Bring a back-to-hand bill of law into this parliament. That's what you're proposing, and I think this town has an important leap ahead of us. We can continue to look at these Spanish comparisons. You mentioned gin's index: I have also said that the index and the place of Gina has been located by us among the most developed countries of Central Europe, but what is the tenedity? I didn't say what I said in the technical presentation Louis Stezo. What's the coincidence? The constancy of the gin's index? What is it? For here Gini is an index that often is used. The Social Services Act, 10 years still, 10 years old. The chairman of the cabinet has told us clearly that we have a problem in our employment. Where are the proposals about it? For these facts confirm us in the proposals which have been brought to us through this legislation, in the necessity of opening a power round the Law of Social Services. We've brought it twice or three times, and your answer is: No. At least you need a minimum wage: that in the old days of employment, the members of the OCDE. We have several times brought him here to make the minimum salary of 1,200 euros; your answer was: No. We've brought up suggestions for high-quality employment, and proposals to address your strategic plan. What's wrong with those people? To see. You should see... For the moment, at least, we have no need to know any sign, to know which are the indicators of high-quality employment in this country. We must give a leap, and for this we must pass the inertia and place the other dynamics and other paradigms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put Guanche Suárez's original text of Mrs. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 26; the opposites, 45; white, 0; Abstension, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u50	So, the original motion was not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 8; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u51	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 37; counters 34; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u52	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentarian Society of the Euscany Group, the conditions of the civil servants of PRAYS of PRINCICE during the course of the Academy of Police and Emergency Employments. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Llanos, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. My first words in this House, in an initiative related to Ertzaintza, as it could not be otherwise, must be of support and recognition to the State Security Forces and Bodies, of support and recognition, especially these days, to the Civil Guard, the National Police and the Mossos That is why, from the Group of the European People's Party, we want to express our strongest condemnation of the violent acts carried out in recent days by radical elements in Catalonia, and to show our solidarity also with the millions of Catalan citizens who are suffering this situation and the economic losses they are suffering. We wish to recall, in particular, those agents who have been injured in the performance of their duties, and to recognize the professionalism demonstrated in the defence and protection of the freedoms of all Catalans. Let us remember that 288 officers from the various police forces have been injured and one of them, a national police, is in very serious condition. As I say, our support and solidarity, and wish them a speedy recovery. And we want to denounce the opening of files to the Mossos We would also like to take this opportunity to support the resolution adopted by EuroCOP, the European Confederation of Police Unions, promoted by ErNE and the trade unions of the Mossos d'Esquadra. That is why today I carry this link which was or has been distributed by EuroCOP and which symbolizes support for law enforcement. I would like to greet and express my sincere thanks for assisting the representatives of the two majority Ertzaintza unions, the representatives of ErNE and ESAN, who are accompanying us here, and to tell them that this initiative is their initiative, because it arose precisely from a complaint that ErNE transferred to the department and that it also referred to the groups, and also from the complaints that ESAN has made on this issue. In promotion 28 the number of people has dropped; a total of 4,750 people interested in getting into the body have been involved. And, among those presented, there were not enough candidates, sufficiently prepared, to cover the 700 places offered. So, almost 50 seats are left. Because, finally, only 651 people have started the Arkaute course. And it should be remembered that, of those 651, there are 60 who currently opt or are also opting for a place in the municipal police, and that if they do, they will leave. With this, there will be less than 600 students who will have, as we say, an offer of 700. In the year 93 –let's remember – 9,050 people showed up. Five years ago, 5,756. Previous promotions have had more people, and let us remember that we have lived moments when Ertzaintza was persecuted by ETA. Well, as we see, the number of people who want to be agents, or who finally meet the physical, psychotechnical and personality requirements required by the Arkaute Academy, is decreasing. We would need to know what criteria are being used, so that, as we say, those 700 places are not covered. She pointed out, to a question we asked her on this issue, that they were concerned that selection was the right one, that the best people were selected to practice this profession and that training was the right one, the best one. Us, too. We agree with that. And we want the best training. For this reason, we believe that the more attractive it is to be ertzaina, the more attractive it is to be the period of training, the exercise of the profession, since more aspirants there will be, and the possibilities of an adequate selection will increase logically. The Ertzaintza staff currently stands at 7,200 agents. Let us remember that the figure fixed in the quota, by which the quota is discounted, is 8,000, because it was the figure that was considered necessary to cover the police needs of our Autonomous Community. Good. Well, right now, there's 800 less of those who're supposed to be in need. Between 2012 and 2017, 655 ertzainas have retired, and in the first six months of 2019, the retirements were around 300. Over the next six years, retirements are expected to be of another 200, of 7,000 staff. If we add to this the more than 50 annual falls that occur, due to deaths, incapacity for work and voluntary resignations, it can happen perfectly that in the year 2020, because the staff of the Ertzaintza is placed below 7,000 agents. I say this because I am convinced that the Basque Nationalist Party, its representative, will not miss the opportunity to remember the problems with the central government in taking out the promotions. But I don't know, right now, with the support of Sanchez and so applauded, because where is the problem? But well, as we say, full staffing is absolutely necessary, because at this time there are not enough staff. And that lack of personnel affects, above all, the units of citizen security, research and traffic, with continuous changes of shift of work, with calls to work on days off, with an increase of workloads... As pointed out by trade unions and we share, the image of the Ertzaintza is directly linked to the perception that Basque society has of the crime and efficiency with which our Police confronts it. From the department, the work system that has been imposed, we have said on many occasions, is based more on statistics than on effectiveness, and that takes the Ertzaintza away from citizenship. To tell a citizen that he has to wait a long time to file a complaint or come back the next day or that he does, of course, is not police effectiveness. That is why we have to ask ourselves: is it attractive, at this moment, to be ertzaina? Are working conditions, beyond pay, adequate? Of course, because when a citizen is waiting for three hours, it is obviously the agent who suffers the consequences of that wait. As we have said, at the beginning of this promotion, promotion 28, 700 places were offered, of which only 651, which are the students who started in Arkaute. But one wonders what will happen with subsequent promotions, whether the conditions under which they have to carry out their work, together with the changes that have taken place at the time of training, continue. Because, as we explained in the justification of our non-law proposal, aspiring officials in practice – let us not forget that they are aspiring, but they are functioning in practices of the 28 promotion – will no longer stay overnight at the Academy of Basque Autonomous Police, because for the course of training, mandatory and elimination, the regime will no longer be boarding, as it was until now, and they will only receive the food service. The reason was given to us by the adviser: the training needs at the moment, not only because we are facing a large promotion, but also because there is training of local police and other types of training, which, for their part, involve an increase in the income of the academy – let us not forget – but this causes the space available in the academy to be reduced and, therefore, the future agents, as we say, can no longer stay overnight. I don't want them to say: no, it's that they had the choice before, yes, but if they chose, they could spend the night at the academy, which was supposed to save the accommodation during the training period; they didn't have to pay either breakfast or dinner and now, right now, they're going to have to pay for all that, because they're only being paid for food. And all that, all that change, they have to face with 585 euros a month. As we say, before, it is true, they also received the 585 euros, but it is that they stayed there overnight, it is that the food they had paid for. Therefore, we are now faced with a substantial change in the conditions under which they are in the academy and this substantial change has not been accompanied by any other kind of change. This amendment, in addition to being an aggravation compared to previous promotions, which has not been compensated, because, as we say, there has been no increase in salaries, is also an aggravation compared to, for example, local police officers, who are conducting a training course and who, from the moment they start that training course, are already receiving the salary they receive from the agents who are already on the street. As we say, the monthly economic allocation has not changed in relation to previous promotions, but the conditions have changed. So, what's to be done? Aren't we going to do anything? Are we going to allow the students who are now not to reach them with 585 euros? That you have to pay the travel, that you have to pay the rent if you want to stay overnight in Vitoria, because let's imagine someone, for example, from Irun, who has to come by car every day; that is, in the morning, and leave at night. And if you stay to sleep in Vitoria, how with 585 euros will you face the rent payment? But what if they have families? What if they have expenses to make? Let us not forget that they abandon their jobs, not only since they entered Arkaute, they often abandon them previously, precisely to form, to be able to then approve in the opposition. Because let's not forget that in order to be in Arkaute, they have previously had to pass a series of tests – theoretical tests, physical tests, psychotechnical tests and interviews – and have abandoned their work. And then, when they enter, when they already get approval, they are aspiring practitioners, who receive a salary of 585 euros per month. Really, does this make access to Ertzaintza attractive? Isn't it more attractive, right now, to be a local police officer in Euskadi? Is this a proper salary? Because they don't even charge the SMI, they don't even charge the income guarantee income. The figures don't even come to that. The National Court, creating jurisprudence, has said that what is paid to a worker cannot be less than 900 euros per month. Well, here we see how this applies. The PNV was, in its day, in favour of the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. That's right, aspirants for Ertzaintza don't even pay that amount. I remember: 585 euros. And as I said before, this must be contrasted with what local police seekers receive and, for example, municipalities such as Bilbao, Donostia, Durango, Eibar, Bergara, Tolosa, Irun, etc., while they are doing their training period, they pay them the basic salary that an agent receives. In addition, then later, you will have to see under what conditions your work is performing and also where, the issues of proximity. Therefore, they are going to coincide at the Arkaute Academy at this time with aspiring to ertzainas and aspiring to local police, and aspiring to local police are charging far more than aspiring to ertzainas. And you claim that, in the following promotions to the Ertzaintza, with the need we have to cover the 8,000 places, for the young Basques are targeted massively. Is this encouraging the employment of young Basques? Article 26 of the Basic Staff Regulations provides that the administrations shall establish the working conditions of the officials in practice, who shall at least be paid to those of the group or subgroup to which they aspire to enter. This basic regulation lays down the minimum remuneration, which may, where appropriate, be increased through collective bargaining. Article 20 of Royal Decree 462/2002 of 24 May 2002 on compensation for service provides that the department may lay down specific conditions for the payment of compensation - not aid, compensation - after negotiation with the representation of the staff, taking into account the characteristics of the courses convened. As we pointed out in the initiative, we believe that we are absolutely in this situation, because the course is compulsory and the number of trips to the academy is very high. Therefore, in the face of this whole situation and of this implementing legislation, what do we ask from the People's Group? First, we urge the Department of Security of the Basque Government, after negotiations with the trade unions, i.e. after negotiations at table 103, to regulate travel expenses compensation to the Basque Police and Emergency Academy, to pay staff members in 28 promotion practices. Because we are not talking about the future; we are talking about the needs that have arisen to the students of this 28th promotion, who, I repeat, that their conditions have been ostensibly changed in relation to those of the previous promotions. And these allowances must, in any case, be sufficient to cover the cost of moving to the academy every day. And secondly, we urge the Department of Security of the Basque Government, also after negotiating at table 103, to increase the salaries to be received by officials in 28 promotion practices, during the training course at the Basque Police and Emergency Academy, and to go on to collect what was received as basic and complementary salaries from the basic scale agents and that these payments be made effective from the day of the beginning of the course. We believe it is a matter of trying to avoid the comparative aggravations with previous promotions and with other police officers who are currently being trained at the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies. And we call for the support of all groups for this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u54	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u55	Good morning, ma'am. Mrs. Llanos, you've got me used to it; but I've still been surprised by this statement of love, this kind of mix of reporting and semi-performance. And in that line, and no longer entering the mud, we, from Elkarrekin Podemos, are aware that there is a concrete situation, which we understood was what you came to explain today, at the Academy of Basque Autonomous Police, in Arkaute, as regards the aspiring persons of the 28th Ertzaintza promotion, and the conditions that these people have in the formation, which are the ones we understand that we had to discuss in this House. After the decision of the Department of Security to remove the rooms, to expand the space dedicated to the classrooms for training, the aspiring people will not be able to sleep in Arkaute's facilities to carry out this training, and the regime will not be a boarding system, and they will only receive the food service, and this is a decision with which, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we agree; because, as we have already stated many times, the safety model that we promote and promulgate is based on a diverse, multidisciplinary, comprehensive and standardized Ertzaintza formation; that is, that the aspiring people can receive all the necessary training in the different areas and subjects, and that they are compatible with the development of their lives; that they do so, of course, in large spaces and with the necessary material, and that the aspiring people do not lose contact with reality and day by day, in addition to taking into account the reconciliation with the personal life of each aspiring. We believe that these measures are good for a transparent, prepared, conscious and knowledgeable Ertzaintza of its own social environment; a nearby Ertzaintza, capable and formed in the face of new existing realities that violate human rights. But, as we all know, Mrs Llanos, this is not the spirit taken up by the fifth amendment of the police law last June, which was adopted with the votes of the parties supporting the Government and with the support of your parliamentary group, which brings us this initiative today. We, from our parliamentary group, have already pointed out the shortcomings and inconsistencies of this law, which does not respond to the need for a change to a model of human security. This new concrete situation will force the seekers, in your opinion, to have to travel every day, or to spend the night in Vitoria, with the expenses that this entails and those who will have to deal with the less than 600 € per month they receive. It is true that some unions understand that in order to cover their own training they are clearly insufficient, because they have to pay not only that, but also maintenance and travel expenses themselves and, in some cases, rental of the flat. We understand that, in previous calls, there was overnight stay; therefore, these expenses were not existing. There has been a change, which has not been compensated either by an increase in salaries or by an allowance for travel expenses. This change in the working conditions itself has been taken unilaterally, without negotiation, without dialogue, without consensus with trade union agents, and we believe that this is not a situation of decent working conditions. And, on the basis of the amendment of the law that was passed in July, new persons who access the course of access to the Ertzaintza will charge as the group of classification C; it is true that the promotion 28, having been called before the approval of the amendment of the law, will be remunerated on the basis of the group of classification D, for the title that they require. We, from Elkarrekin Podemos, have always defended labour rights and decent working conditions for all people working in the public administration. However, the initiative of the People's Group seems to us to be insufficient and incomplete. Mrs Llanos' proposal is short-lived; it focuses only on the 28 promotion, and does not provide ways to build stable and sustainable solutions for the current promotion and future promotions. It is partial, because it only exposes and proposes a solution that focuses only on – as I say – the 28th promotion and the Ertzaintza, and it does not take into account, as our amendment does, that in November, around the corner, there will be about 300 people aspiring to local police, for whom stable and sustainable solutions must also be provided. That is why we are presenting an amendment to the whole, which will address the problem and the solution from a more general and guaranteed perspective, not only to a part of the possible ones affected, but to all. That is why, in our amendment, we ask the Department of Safety to provide decent working conditions and remuneration, as well as to provide all the elements, agendas and materials necessary for adequate training for candidates, officials in practice, of the 28 promotion of Ertzaintza, also those of the municipal police and all the promotions of the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, for which, of course, it will be necessary to dialogue and negotiate with the sectoral trade union agents. So, obviously, our initiative is more complete and inclusive. That is why we are going to abstain and we are happy, Mrs Llanos, with your defence of the inter-professional minimum wage, of encouraging the employment of young Basques, and we hope that this will be the line in all sectors and in all areas, not just in this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u57	President, ladies and gentlemen. In the matter before us today, it is true that the circumstances in which the candidates for Ertzaintza officials are trained at the Arkaute Academy have been changed, and it is also true that there is a demand, a demand, which is reasoned, with regard to the amounts and means of attending to that period of training, the material means, to those who have to devote themselves to training and who do so at full dedication, and also with the possibility, if they do not pass all the tests, if they do not do an optimal training, that they cannot be Ertzaintza officials. It is in these circumstances that this debate takes place, which already has some time, because, certainly, the Arkaute Academy, for many years, in its training promotions, first attended only a group of aspirants – which, fundamentally, were the ertzainas – and it is also true that it enjoyed facilities that allowed to make accommodation and what the accommodation entails in terms of dinner and breakfast. These circumstances have changed; it has been explained in this House why they have changed, mainly because of training needs, the increased demand for such training from different police forces and also because of the evolution of the training itself for candidates. This reality leads us to some conclusions: the first conclusion is that the performance of the department in relation to the attention to those who are being trained is an action adjusted to the obligations, to the right, to what is resolved as a compensation procedure for that training period. In other words, we are not faced with a problem of legality; in any case, we are faced with a problem of changing circumstances, in which some kind of sensitivity is required, of approximation, of study, of how to alleviate or improve the situation of training in terms of its remuneration. It will not be me who says that 585 euros is a money to be able to attend that training period. It is clear that it is a fair amount, which, as I say, goes according to legal obligations, but there are considerations of an economic, social, trade union, political nature, which I believe is also reasonable to attend to. That is why we have tabled an amendment in which we say that there is an approach to the approach being taken by the unions, by the people concerned and which is also part of the concern of the groups in this House. We are talking in this amendment about the possibility of helping, by means of the transport subsidy for not being able to make those overnight stays, by trying to alleviate the cost of not living here, and therefore having to make the trips back and forth to the academy. And there is also talk of the regulatory development of the police law, of the fifth amendment that was recently proposed, so that the development of remuneration in relation to aspiring women is discussed. That is to say, there is a methodology that is established in the law, there are competences that everyone knows what theirs are, there is a legality, but there is also an aspiration of a social, trade union, economic, political nature, which seems to me to be reasonable and that the groups that we support the Government intend to attend to, as we have pointed out in our entire amendment. Therefore, by being able, in some way, to incorporate the concerns raised by Mrs Llanos, and by being able to incorporate the concerns raised by Mrs García there too, because I believe that this amendment is a good vehicle to be able to deal with and give an adequate response to what is being raised in this House today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u58	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, guests, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Once I have heard the speakers of the parliamentary groups who have preceded me in speaking and waiting to hear from the spokesman for EH Bildu, I think I am not overly mistaken if I consider that most of us here share some basic issues on this subject: The first mission of the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies is training, as well as quality training. Police eta Larrialdietako Euskal Akademiaren lehen helburu nagusia of the euskal gizarteak securtasun alorrean dituen eskarientzat formakuntzarik onena eta egokiena ematea. In these last two legislatures, which I am directly aware of, there have been a number of initiatives approved by this House requesting the specialization and training of Ertzaintza in such important and sensitive matters as gender violence, computer crimes, environmental crimes and economic crimes, among others. Training is therefore a priority. And the second, which today, with more than 1,000 people in training period and the unanimously approved forecast of the board of directors of the academy in December 2018 of the plan of activities for this year 2019, with more than 240 courses and with almost 11,000 places, is an objective fact that there is no place for their accommodation, so it is impossible the boarding regime, and neither is there a place to park. It is an ingestible and unsustainable problem that of the parking lots. Having said that, in view of this situation, the Group of the European People's Party, with this initiative, raises three questions: firstly, to regulate travel expenses for students of 28 promotions during the training course; secondly, to increase the remuneration to be received by such students during the training course, and, thirdly, all this is said after negotiation at Table 103 of both questions. First thing planned. 28th The promotional students regulate compensations for the expense of offsets across the college of formation. Compensation. If we look at the concept of compensation, it is compensation for damage or injury. In this case, it does not cause them any harm or harm. The night was not a right. The academy had bedrooms, namely 380 beds, for the use of the student who was going to take courses lasting more than one day, not being compulsory overnight in any of the courses. Mrs Llanos, today you have made here a series of absolute statements that are not true; not because you want to be absolute are true. He said, specifically in this case, that they had previously stayed there. Really, did all the students stay overnight there? Some yes and some no. It was a right they had to stay overnight. And in this regard, we must go to Decree 5/2012 of 17 January on compensation for the service of the staff in the service of the Ertzaintza, which you are referring to, but on the initiative and today I think they have gone wrong. It is not Royal Decree 462/2002 of 24 May. That of the Ertzaintza is the 5/2012, of 17 January, where there is that article that mentions, the 20.9, the 20.9 that says of that royal decree is that corresponding to the Ertzaintza. But it has not read Article 1, which in its paragraph 3 states that this Decree, this of the indemnities for service, will apply to the professional staff of the Ertzaintza, as well as to the staff in practice who would have passed the stage of formation of the procedure of admission to the body. Therefore, during the training phase, the Ertzaintza compensation decree does not apply to them. It doesn't affect them. They cannot be compensated for reasons of service because there is no service. Yes, when you are already in practice at a police station; then you will have all the complements of the job you perform. Faced with this situation, our proposal, based on the mobility plan you know, drawn up by the Department of Safety in June 2018, is to articulate a programme of economic aid to the collective transport of students of income training courses, thus also supporting a more sustainable management of mobility. As has been said, the academy has to adapt to its functions and needs, and in this case, it has been necessary to remove the areas intended for accommodation, turning the bedrooms into locker rooms and the common spaces are transformed into training classrooms. At the same time, and due to the problem of access to Arkaute, the issue of sustainable mobility has been addressed. In particular, work has been done to raise awareness among workers and staff about training to change the type of mobility, and the above-mentioned sustainable mobility plan has been developed. Before the summer of this year, an association has been formed, MugiArkaute, a non-profit association, whose purpose is to facilitate access to the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies to anyone who wishes to do so. There are currently nine buses chartered: 6 from Gasteiz, 2 from Bizkaia and another from Gipuzkoa. Public transport is wanted to be used, even the academy has also managed with the Provincial Council of Álava a stop at the academy for the lines of Agurain and Araia. Public transport. Chapter IV of the 2019 budgets has been created in the 2018 extended budgets, with a nominative grant for this association, for 60,000 euros, for the period September to December. And in the draft budgets there is also a provision for this purpose. In addition, this association may also present other subsidies, such as those of the EVE, which, where appropriate, have an impact on the final cost of such transport. The second question is the pay of the students. There are two accounts: the first, the pay of the student of form in other police, and the second in the manner of setting up the amount. It should be borne in mind that these student salaries have not undergone any substantial change since 1992, when the Police Act was passed. That is, they are the same as in previous years. Logically, revised with updates corresponding to staff salary. As has been said, in the promotion 28 are 743 euros gross per month, with the extra payment prorated. But let's look at other police forces, to see if there really is an economic gap. Let's see the situation of the bodies mentioned in the intervention: In the Civil Guard, they are paid the basic salaries corresponding to the civil guard, 650 euros per month, and they are charged the dining room, 290 euros per month. And in the National Police they are paid 700 euros a month, although from this amount they are discounted breakfast, food, dinner and laundry services. And in Catalonia, Mosso. Therefore, there is not so much gap with respect to the salaries of the rest of the police forces. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that they are students in training, and that the training period is one more stage of the series of tests until they become a career officer. For example, in the promotion 27, of 350 people, 30 people suspended the training course. In order to determine the amount of the student's remuneration during his or her training period, we have to go to the Basque police law. That, Mrs Llanos, which we approved your fifth amendment just four months ago in this House, namely on 27 June, and more specifically on Article 54(2) which states that: "As officials in practice, you will receive a salary equivalent to the salary and extraordinary salaries corresponding to the classification group of the category in which you are seeking entry". That is to say, the student of the 28th promotion, during his training period in Arkaute, nine months, corresponds, according to this article of the Basque law of police, the basic salaries of the group to which they aspire to enter. In this case, promotion 28 is the C2. Beraz, artikulu horrek argi utilten du nork ezartzen duen soldier: ez Segurtasun Sailak, ez Beltran de Heredia andreak, baizik eta Eusko Legebiltzarrak. This article, Mrs Llanos, makes clear who establishes her remuneration: it is neither the Department of Security nor Mrs Beltran de Heredia who establishes it, but it is precisely this Basque Parliament that determines it in the text of the Basque Police Act. And in this case, curiously, its recent modification has been with the support of the proposing parliamentary group of this initiative, the People's Group. And then, it is the general budget law, also approved by this Parliament, which sets out the specific annual amounts of the salaries corresponding to each group. Of course, given this initiative presented by the Group of the European People's Party on 26 September and its urgency, it might be thought that this is an issue which, logically, had to be on the table two months earlier in the debate on the adoption of the Basque law, where these salaries are precisely fixed. However, in reviewing the 57 amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mrs Llanos, to the draft law on the fifth amendment of the Basque Police Act, we are surprised that none of them refers to article 54 of that law, nor by far, which, as we said in the second paragraph, is the one that sets out how the salaries of pupils are determined, which now claim to be increased by the art of birlibirloque. Today he has told us that the interprofessional minimum wage. Why didn't you put it as an amendment at the time? And they are not created, also the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos – who boasted of presenting the record of amendments, 104, although then did not reserve any for the plenary, which is where they are finally approved or rejected – says that they are not decent working conditions. Neither did you, Mrs García, make any amendments to that article 54 of the bill. They did not descend to the earth from their concept of human security. With regard to the reference they make from their amendment to "themes and materials necessary for proper training", I must point out that there has been a breakthrough here, at least from our point of view, and I think it is also from yours. Before, at the beginning of the course, all the printed material was delivered, a very bulky material; now all the necessary material is hung on the digital platform Arkampus, more environmentally sustainable we believe it is. You who try to boast of being the most ecologists and those who contribute most to environmental sustainability, for these are facts. Like almost all achievements, they are achieved little by little, grain by grain. As far as Mrs Llanos was concerned, there is a reduction in the number of candidates, because that is not the case. And, as I see that time is running out and I want to finish with the three points to which I referred, in the second intervention I shall reserve myself to make reference to this. And that's why, Madam President, I finish... Finally, the third point that we mentioned, raised by Mrs Llanos on her own initiative, was that both issues, the request to regulate compensation and increase remuneration, should be negotiated at table 103. As you well know, Article 103 establishes trade union representation, the participation of trade union representation in the regulatory agreement. And as you well know, Decree 4/2012 of 17 January approved the regulatory agreement on the working conditions of the Ertzaintza staff. And as was the case with the compensation decree, it does not correspond here with what it asks, because this decree, nothing more start in its first article, relating to the personal sphere, states that the agreement is applicable to staff in practice in a process of entering the body of the Ertzaintza, once it has passed the course of training. As students, they are not working, and are expressly excluded from the Ertzaintza Convention. Therefore, and taking into account the provisions of Article 103 of the Basque Police Act, this is a matter which does not fall within the scope of the negotiation of Table 103. Therefore, for consistency, responsibility and seriousness, we will vote against the proposal of the People's Group and in favour of the proposal presented jointly with the Socialist Group, which we also believe is more concrete and sensible than the one tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos, to which we will also vote against. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u60	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you, even to ErNE and the ESAN unions. What a spokesman you have chosen in this parliament to defend your interests, and to give homage to the power of any other state, before you. In any case, it didn't seem to us that this was a very important initiative, and I don't know what standards are used in other cases to the committee or to bring other cases to the Plenumium. But, as I say, I did not think it an affair of a great entity; for it is a certain corporate demand, favorable to a specific collective, and besides, at a particular period of time, that is, to that period of formation. Hala ére, mahai haenean bi elementu edo bi agudio jarri nahi ditut. This initiative, wanting to respond to a very concrete, very partial problem, starts from a previous and general question, which is – and must be mentioned – the department's staggering lack of forecast to predict and prevent an ageing situation within the Ertzaintza, which has turned out to be fatal and which has turned out to be chronic. In addition, linked to another issue, which is the not sufficiently explained and reasoned objective that, whatever the circumstances of the evolution of crime, whatever the crime rates, whatever the security needs and whatever the budgetary reality, the staffing of the Ertzaintza has to be, always and everywhere, of 8,000 troops. It is not a maximum, it is not the ceiling, but it is the minimum; it has to be 8,000 and point. We already brought in a few months ago a PNL to establish a moratorium on the 27th promotion, because no one had just explained to us the need, from solid arguments, to make that call and something that is extended or moved – or that is aggravated, perhaps – with the 28th call; because, as we say, five promotions in five years, which had to generate, yes or yes, a management problem. It is a problem that was already formulated at the University, at the faculty, on the first day of the subject of Economics, which is formulated as limited resources to meet infinite needs. And it is precisely in front of this that we are faced with: finite resources, limited resources, limited economic resources, also limited infrastructure resources, which do not give so much, and now, in a way, we take our hands to the head, and do not cover those needs that had been estimated, from our point of view, wrongly. To govern, in fact, is to make decisions. And one was adopted, which was to saturate Arkaute with one promotion after another, to maintain the police ratio and now we regret it; because, from the management of that decision, we are encountering problems, such as that Arkaute is overcrowded and that the economic cost this entails to give him a solution is inexhaustible. So if this was an economic issue, we'd have to figure out where we get economic resources to solve it. Maybe we'll have to take the money out of the other sections to bring it back to this department, maybe we'll have to take it from education or health to put it in security. We may need to take some other edge-instructions or remove other resources so that we can put them on this. I don't know. Perhaps it would have to be saved from the effectiveness of the mobile brigade, or from the material they use, to deal with it, but then you get very proud and satisfied with their interference. And finally, where does it reduce? Finally, from these candidates or candidates, now that they are exposed to these decisions somewhere. And I'm very sorry, but we saw that this was coming, and that we'd come to this situation with the decisions we were making, and that's why we didn't feel any correction because we didn't show up because we weren't in a position to solve the consequences of a problem we planned: it is not our problem, because I told you beforehand, that we should have gone on to this. And a second argument that I want to put on the table, because it is a problem of opportunity; because, indeed, we now realize the problem. But, Mrs Llanos, you didn't do it when we were reforming the law, when we were analyzing the law, when you had the pan by the handle, because, I've recognized it, you played well the letters to support, because they needed the PSE and the PNV your support for the legislative process, and you at that time didn't claim it, and now it seems that we are facing a problem that affects you very much. At that time, it turned the police model debate into a mere corporate stipulation of career complements, and I already told you that, more than a law, what you were supporting was a labor agreement, and maybe that's the problem, that you, in a way, saw that you could get things there, and now try, already after the law debate, to see if you can also pull out some kind of commitment to the government in this regard, but the time has passed. And the time has passed, and I think Mr Zorrilla has also explained it very well, because you have not submitted any amendments to Article 54 of the Basque Police Act, and it is precisely that which obliges things to be done now as they have to be done. I do not know if you have looked at this article, because you tend to mix the training period in Arkaute with the period of practice in a job, and I believe that it is two moments that in this law also appear absolutely clear, because to each one also gives a completely different retributive or remunerative entity. And if he's training you in Arkaute, you're entitled to base salary, and if you're working, that is, playing a job, that's right, as a practice officer, you have access to complementary pay, and that's what the law says. That was your opportunity, and I am afraid that either they are proposing a legislative change, or perhaps the same will be possible to put on some patch, but there will be no way out of this tantrum. And today I see that it stands in the voice of the unions, and some, moreover, I have to reflect that they have proposed some solutions that should be catalogued as true occurrences, such as the one that brought a union, asking the Ministry of Defence for the candidates for the Ertzaintza to stay in the military barracks of Araca, which seemed to me to be a spur; but, perhaps, seen with perspective, it would have been better to have them cantoned, to avoid an incident like that which starred three candidates for the Ertzaintza in the process of formation, when they were arrested aiming, with a gas gun, at a lighthouse in Zaramaga. And these are circumstances, and you have brought us this initiative in this context. So I repeat: I don't feel at all involved, we defined the problem well at his time, and today we want to bring a bad patch to cover up a bad decision, and we put that decision on the table at its very moment. For us, this subject, I do not know whether it can be placed at table 103; It will be our position, in front of all the initiative and corrections proposed, that we will abstain. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u62	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, again, everyone. To begin with the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos, who pointed out, showed that my defense demonstrated a love for the police and that it should be because we were in the campaign. Look, I love love; I feel for what I feel and for who I feel. Recognition and thanks to the Ertzaintza for defending the rights and freedoms of all Basques? Of course, but I haven't said it now that we're campaigning. Man, it's just that as we go on like this, we're never gonna be able to say anything, because we're on a continuous, permanent campaign. But, let's see, in June, when the law was debated, I said the same thing and, as far as I know, then there was no campaign. One could see that, perhaps there was, because no government was formed, but there was no campaign. And with regard to all the wounded: look, I don't know if who threw the stone at him or who threw it at the National Police officer, wounded in the helmet and who is seriously injured in the hospital, got hurt on a finger; but, of course, I'm not going to sympathize with him. I mean, with that one, I'm telling you, I'm not going to show solidarity! And he talks... I have offered you an agreement, because, indeed, it is your initiative that is "in order to provide decent working and remunerative conditions, as well as to facilitate..."; look, it is that I already feel like repeating myself, but it is an amendment that absolutely reflects the "and peace in the world". And peace in the world, because that is the amendment. No, no. Get down to the situation of the 28th grade students and arbitrate measures for the 28th grade. And I have offered to reach an agreement and see how we came to concrete measures for the 28th, putting this declaration of intentions, of birds and flowers, at first, because it is only that, and then concretely that, this declaration of intentions, which, of course, of course we can all share, but then we have to concretely do it. And he didn't want to come in. You didn't want to come in, Mrs. Garcia. The paper and the verb endure everything, but then there it is: he did not want to enter. I don't know whether because he doesn't want to agree on a police issue with the People's Party or for the object. I do not know, if they were other officials in practice and the situation of other officials in practice – because, yes, they are officials in practice; then you lack the training period outside the academy, but they are officials in practice – you would have done the same. If 585 euros seem enough, of which you have to deduct the travel, of which you have to deduct 200 euros of photocopies... Because I have a payroll there. That's 585. If that's enough for you. But... You will then come here; I don't know if it is that the police or the officials in practice will then not be workers. He said if you need me to... With regard to Mr Arzuaga, with the needs of the staff. Look, this is what's in the police stations. [Bi horri eakutsi said]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u65	For reporting thefts of mobile phones, wallets, bags and so on, if you... waiting to be attended may be prolonged. And, if you don't want to wait, you can request a pre-date at any of the Ertzaintza's dependencies – in Bilbao, this is from Bilbao – i.e., you come back tomorrow... Either make the complaint on the Internet, or, as I said before, make your complaint: file the complaint in these units in a self-calculated complaint. These are the conditions in which they have to work, because I used to say to him: when then the citizen has been waiting two hours and peak, the truth is that in very good tune does not arrive. And who's taking the grudge for waiting? Not Mrs. Beltran of Heredia, no. It's taken by the agent who's picking up the complaint. Then, I do not know whether the 8,000 or not will be necessary, but a different organization so that both citizens and they have conditions of exercise of the profession, of course they do. Well, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, of course, I don't know if we passed the law in June and that law is, I don't know, the same as it is expected to last another 20 years, because nothing can be touched anymore. Of course we made our amendment. By the way, this situation does not arise in June. In June we approved it, when the amendments were made, no. But in addition, in any case, things that are seen not to work well or that can change, regardless of whether the law has been passed, may arise. You allow yourselves, Mr. Zorrilla... Well, I have to thank Mr. Prieto for the tone; probably... I fully understand that in the end one of the groups supporting the Government has to make an agreement and I can understand it, but I probably could have reached an agreement with Mr Prieto; with you, I do not think, Mr Zorrilla. Why? Because you allow yourselves to give lessons to others, and you always talk about the conditions in the Spanish state, and the Basque differential fact, and that if we had the competition we, buaf, what it would be like. They supported the 900 euros of the interprofessional minimum wage, and because we can't anymore, because some issues, right?, as we don't have the competition... That's what they got her for! And you've compared me to other cops, who, by the way, all charge more, because I told you I have the May 585 payroll; all those who have said charge more. They all charge more, okay. But besides charging more, why don't you compare it to the local cops? Why don't you compare it to the local cops? Because the local police have already told you: at this moment, in Arkaute, an aspirant to local police; just like, uh, aspirant to local police, aspirant to ertzaina, one charges everything, the other 585; I tell you neither the RGI.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u66	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u67	Yeah, I'm finishing up. Nor the amount of GIR. And then they'll tell me there's no money. Look, there's no money to pay the 28th, but 114,000 euros have been spent on modifying 50 patrol cars because the high agents don't fit. And this is also a mismanagement of the department, because I don't think the agents have grown up all of a sudden, or the cars have shrunk all of a sudden. Then, they were better able to manage well to make it attractive to the agents they are studying, because, if not, in the end, they're all going to go to the local police, and we're going to have trouble covering the squares of the Ertzaintza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u68	Thank you, Miss Llanos. There's no need to talk with Podemus together. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I will refer to some of the things Mr Arzuaga has said when he talks about the lack of planning by the Department of Security to attend to retirements. I believe that, with these promotions, you have even recognised your approach to the moratorium on the 27th, it is clear that there has been no lack of planning, let alone. He says that the situation is inconsumable, because I do not think it is a dramatic situation either that is currently being experienced in the academy, rather on the contrary, because the academy has to have activity, but training and quality activity, as we have said. And the Basque Police – and I also tell Mrs. Llanos – is composed, according to the law, by the Ertzaintza and the local police; let's not forget: Ertzaintza and the local police. And I think we currently have a Basque Police, the best prepared in history. It also says that money could be brought for security from other departments; for, well, traditionally, it is not Euskal Herria Bildu's position in the budgets, which is always – let's say – where most of the partial amendments to it go. And finally, a statement that seems to me very interesting and shared. He says that resources are limited to meet infinite needs. Well, I share that, and I think this applies to many other subjects as well. And with regard to the People's Party – before I was half-hearted, because I had no time, with regard to some of the issues I raised in his first speech, which I was going to mention now – you said that the number of candidates is decreasing in the Ertzaintza, which is losing its appeal. Let's see, you can make statements, but you have to contrast them with data. You haven't provided any data on this; I'm going to give you data. I'll give you data: At promotion 27, 3,741 applications were submitted, and 2,635 persons, 70.43 per cent, were then submitted to the examination. At 28 4,498 were presented, i.e. 20% more than the previous promotion, and 3,361 were presented, i.e. 74,72 %. As important is the number of applications that are submitted as the people who are then finally submitted. And this figure, that of 28, 74.72 %, is the highest in the history of the latest promotions and also of the unified calls of local police, to which, for their information, the last one, that of 19, has been presented 65.46 %. Therefore, that fact is not true; they are not diminishing, but they are increasing... With data, Mrs. Llanos. As for what she said about whether it is attractive to be an agent of the Ertzaintza, which does not cover the number; well, the counselor has already told you in the oral question, here in this very House: the ones I have mentioned are presented, and then the best ones are chosen. If there are no such persons qualified to be agents of Ertzaintza, then in the following promotions let us hope that there are, but it is not a question of filling that number. He also spoke of the staff; well, the staff, as it is usually said, excuse not small, accuses manifest The second intervention, the truth is that it has been disconcerting and disappointing, knowing you, Mrs. Llanos: you have not rebutted any of my arguments... Well, it's also true that he had no argument for defeating them: everything was based on a decree that didn't apply to the student in formation, in an article, 52.2 of the law that you passed and that didn't amend, didn't amend... Don't lie. You can say whatever you want, but don't lie; here are all the amendments that have been tabled. [Txosten beat erakutsi du]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u71	... in which amendment did he submit an amendment to Article 52.2 of the same? He said of the dates: well, I believe that on this subject you asked a question to the Counsellor, answered in this plenary on 14 June, and the law was passed on 27 June. Of course, I had not been able to table amendments, but I have read the plenary minutes where the law was discussed, and although this is an issue that I had already dealt with 15 days earlier, I did not make any reference to it in that plenary. So, he's been talking about agents gathering complaints, he's been talking about other issues, the patrol cars... I, the truth is, that's not what we're talking about today, and the truth, what it poses... I think you can understand the trade union interests in this matter, but if you want to be the trade union ram in this House, please ask for all the information to be passed on to you, so that you can keep your arguments minimally sustainable and solvent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u72	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u73	Yeah, I won't stay too long. There was one issue that I was left with, which was to respond to the comparative aggravation mentioned by Mrs Llanos in terms of training, because it was intended to refer to certain other groups of officials, but to me what comes to mind is that neither have you brought any initiative to defend the scholarship system, which has recently been curtailed by decision of the Supreme Court. And now they are those of Baccalaureate and FP, but previously they were scholarships to university aid, and there it is understood that the university formation runs on behalf of the families, but the period of training in the Ertzaintza would not only have to be subsidized, which would not seem entirely wrong to me, but also remunerated, and not only remunerated, but on equal terms that the officials who are serving, and, if not, compensated. And I think that is precisely where there is an element of aggravation in this matter. Mr Zorrilla told me that there is no lack of planning, that measures have been taken, etc. Man, lack of planning there will be, because I understand that you can know when retirements will come; that is, you look at the age of the members of the Ertzaintza and you get out which ones will retire; you make an estimate of how many could be pre-retired, and, on that basis, you then organize the replacement through the following promotions that have to be convened, organized, step by step, in a progressive way... But it is the image that it does not give me, when in five years it is called five calls for the provision of posts for the Ertzaintza, moreover always on the same mattress of aspirants. I mean, those who haven't passed the first one come back to see if in the second; they go back to the third, and in the fifth, and the quality also of those who are presenting themselves I imagine they are going to resent. Is it good foresight? Well, I'd say it's just the opposite. And the principle of economy: indeed, resources that are not infinite for needs that we can think of infinite. And in a way, of course, from somewhere you will have to cut if you want to keep 8,000 officials, at full performance, within the Ertzaintza, in other departments or within the Ertzaintza itself, if, as it seems to me that Mrs Llanos wants to reproach me, there are no Ertzaintza personnel to attend to the citizen, and when you are going to file a complaint you have no one to collect it from you. And I would ask Mrs. Llanos: then, could we remove, within the department, for example, the Mobile Brigade? Could we cut him down, could we cut him down on materials, could we cut him down on weapons? And I imagine you'd say no to me, because you're still doing something about police brutality. You continue to applaud the State Security Forces and Bodies that have carried out evident human rights violations. And you continue to advocate for unacceptable acts of violence by these police forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of the proposition of Euskalia, like the Potula Group. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u75	So, not allowed original text. Together we'll vote for the full line of Podemos. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u76	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u77	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciation of the other law of the Parliamentary teams, concerning the importance of the euscal co-workership. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Gold, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u78	Thank you, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good noon to all. Considering today's situation, this deep, sistemic crisis,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u79	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u80	It is more necessary than ever to claim a wager for eroscal cooperation and development. As for our co-worker, let it be a peaceable instrument of society to promote its activity and development throughout the world, while development must be taken from the paradigm of human development and continuity. Instead of the concept of effective help, we must encourage the concept of cooperation for effective development. The aim is to acquire a permanent and shared development, worthy work, which encourages human rights, democracy, and good government to destroy the poverty of structure. To advance, after all, to modify society, and to increase a greater degree of justice and equity, in particular remarking the function of woman as the motive of her development. In speaking of international cooperation, it is indispensable to highlight the function of social movement, because it is essential elements for the classificational survey. For these motions represent and defend in equity the new formulas for the part of a democracy, founded in the art of horizontalness and variety. It is, therefore, impossible to conceive that social commotions can increase in popularity and democracy without being consolidated by social movement. In this situation, no wager is made for liberators and alternatives; no coherent and global policies are put into action. On the contrary, weakness and neglect are not prior, and they are formed as a purpose of cooperation, in the marginal manner, with a secondary character. However, the international cooperation, the agenda partnership, and the help flow of politics, is mainly limited to its principal actors. That is to say, most of the multilative states and institutions place development and economic growth in the same degree, and systematicly fill not the objects of their own financial position, because they do not have a bond of character. It continues to be the chance of minorities, which imply the tolerable human development, and alone do some actors act in this way in the disorganised cooperation of our circle with different intensity and degrees. The policy of cooperation must be a public policy, a permanent and permanent character, based on political will, international association, and social justice. It is only the global challenges of a subject to a globalized world, and to each other, in respect of the concept of universal nationality; all men and nations must have all their rights secured. To this end, there are three factors to be considered in the policy of cooperation: the wager for the tolerable human development; the effect of the cause or cause of destruction, and the subjective modifications of it, and finally of the alternatives which are fruitful, in order to advance on the terms of equality and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, in the last 30 years, decentralized Basque cooperation for development has been, for many peoples, institutions and social movements of Euskal Herria and the world, a sign of internationalist commitment and solidarity, based on the principles of human rights and public-social alliances, as a clear basis for the construction of this model of cooperation that has differentiated it from others, always based, as I said, on human rights, the gender perspective and the empowerment of women. But, like everything in this life and like the policies we raise throughout this day, they are fundamental under one question, and they are the resources: the resources to deal with these policies. In this respect, the Basque Government's budget proposal for cooperation cannot be accepted. The draft they have presented to us cannot be taken up, because it represents a sharp cut in the budget for cooperation. And it is not that we say this, ladies and gentlemen, that the more than 80 NGOs that make up the Euskadi NGO Coordinator say this: 0.41 % of the overall cooperation budget proposed for this draft; 0.41 % of the 0.7 % established by the Basque cooperation law, a law which at the time was a great social consensus and which in this House is being completely unbroken. Cooperation policy is a social policy and, therefore, the cuts to be made have no other name than that of social cuts, ladies and gentlemen. Social cuts that are unjustifiable from the perspective of global citizenship and solidarity among peoples. Basque cooperation is a policy in itself. This is not a set of specific measures or activities linked to assistanceism, charity or the times of goodness, as is intended to be seen. The NGO Coordinator herself, who, as I said, brings together more than 80 NGOs, has stated that these cuts will have a clear human translation, a clear impact on education, health, promoting gender equity, participation in public affairs, access to safe drinking water, sanitation systems, combating hunger and its causes, in thousands of people living in extreme poverty and inequality in impoverished countries. Shortcuts that represent a clear brake on the transformative capacity of this policy, which seeks to address poverty and its inequalities, reducing its causes and alleviating its consequences on the most vulnerable populations. We will also see affected initiatives in our environment that seek, precisely, an awareness and a critical mass in Basque citizenship. Similarly, as women workers and workers in the sector have indicated, many people are losing their jobs, and those who have them suffer worse working conditions. We also know that they are mostly women and young people. Therefore, we add precariousness to precariousness. In precisely these moments, in which we have great challenges ahead, in which we are talking about an ecological crisis, a climate emergency and sustaining the planet, a structural inequality between men and women, thousands and thousands of people moving forcibly, wars, hunger and precariousness in many countries, it is at this moment that we would really have to live up to the circumstances and show those values that have always characterized Basque cooperation. At the time when politics work, people must be our perfect priority, people must be in the centre. Not only is all that has been said before important, but also some other serious consequences which may cause these violent constraints of the budget: Paralyzing and reversing many cooperation projects in very different countries, as we have said, in this great trajectory of cooperation. Also the gradual but accelerated disappearance of cooperation within the framework of critical citizenship, running the risk of populist messages such as "first those here", "cooperation is indispensable" or "not a right", messages directly against this ethical and political commitment that has always characterized cooperation. It is a serious problem in years and years on other continents that, for instance, the breach of ethical, political, and social engagements with many cases opened, may occur. Poverty is the most remarkable of the waters of human rights, and in the presence of it there exists the universal concern of institutions, which ought to secure the welfare of men and people. Solidarity with the most vulnerable people is irrefutable. To put an end to poverty and exclusion is an obligation, ladies and gentlemen, an obligation of the people who make up this House and who, today, are not being fulfilled, first of all, with the presentation of budgets which are neither social nor solidarity in terms of cooperation and which, of course, deserve change. This, like everything else, is a matter of political will, of political will that we want to see reflected in this House today. That is why we have put forward a proposal, a proposal that has been amended, and has been amended so that the NGO Coordinator can see her interests reflected in it and have a tool for political action. Let us say that we welcome this proposal, a very important one. And from here I would like to thank Elkarrekin We can, Mr Martínez, for his support of the initiative, and also Mr Barrio, for voting in favour of it. We urge the Government to change its mind, to take a step forward and to show the will to reach an agreement, which is undoubtedly a great step forward and a great step forward in the Basque public policy of decentralized cooperation. I take the opportunity, briefly, to make a number of notes which I think are very important: on the one hand, we are going to make an analysis of the policy coherence for the development of the Basque Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the NGO Coordinator has been present and has stated that it is not possible, for example, that we are favouring companies that market and sell weapons to end the civilian population in Yemen and that, at the same time, we are offering humanitarian aid to alleviate this humanitarian crisis. This is not policy coherence for development and therefore deserve to be reconsidered and they deserve another change in other policies. Nor is the strategy of internationalisation of the Basque Government's companies, a strategy which, as you well know and the studies of academic institutions of great prestige have carried out, it speaks precisely of disregarding human rights, ladies and gentlemen, human rights in the internationalization of the companies in which Basque companies are settling. As I said earlier, the systematic non-compliance with the Basque law of cooperation, not only, ladies and gentlemen, in the area of economic resources so important for this which we are showing today, but also is important, such as, for example, the Basque Cooperation Council, an organ which should have a constant evolution, should have a high decision-making capacity and which, however, year after year, denounces the NGO Coordinator herself, the NGOs themselves, are merely visualizing what is going on, they are informed late, their requests are not answered, even the law is not complied with with with the number of plenary sessions of that body required. Nor, ladies and gentlemen, is it worth the argument of extended budgets. An extended budget, which, while being extended, alluding and appealing to the solidarity of the Basque NGOs, reducing by 25%, to that cut, adding to cuts, a 25% cut in development cooperation projects, in which for this year more than twenty projects have remained, with the impact that this entails, think about it, without having a development. And in this sense, as this happens, it turns out that the Basque Development Cooperation Agency increases its operating expenditure by 44% or, for example, increases its staff with an expenditure of 800,000 euros. What model of cooperation do we want? This is very rare, because when cooperation projects are reduced and, in addition, expenditure is increased in the Cooperation Agency and, moreover, the installation itself is to be extended, it means that it is intended to replace, ladies and gentlemen, and this is very serious, the social organisations themselves and their trajectory, in order to carry out the work in another way. And say this without caps. They have to say, because there are hundreds and hundreds of people who want to know what is going to happen to their situation and, not only that, but let us remember that, for example, in 2017, approximately 2 million people around the world were reached with the processes of social transformation carried out by Basque cooperation. We therefore want an explanation, we want to know and we want you to say it without a cap: what are you really going to do, when you are calling on civil society to maintain itself and to contain itself in a process, for example, of budgetary extension and, however, to increase such expenditure. That's the problem: guidance. And in guidance is where we have a serious problem. The orientation of public policy, which so far has ensured that Basque cooperation is defined by a public-social strategy, and that we now seem to want it in addition to a public-private strategy, with a very significant increase in direct aid, which means that these own NGOs cannot even compete on equal terms with the competitions. I therefore believe that there is much to be explained today; I think it is very clear that, if there is political will, it can be done. But, in addition to resources, let us make it clear what kind of cooperation policy we want to pursue. We are going to talk without caps; we are going to tell people what is and what is the reality of cooperation policy today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Passing over the teams that have been running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínezin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u82	Thank you. Laugh, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, whatever you want. Deep changes take time to arrive, but they will also arrive here. In Chile it has taken 30 years to wake up and go out on the street, and also here, in the Basque Country and in the Spanish state as a whole, it will also arrive. Don't worry; we are persistent in our ideas from the left. But we're talking about cooperation, and Mrs. Gold has explained it very well now, and most of us agree, and I won't waste time on this tribal, because we've explained it together by various initiatives and commissions about the cooperation of Podemos. But if we speak of co-operation, of solidarity, of the solidarity of nations, we speak, and the union is the tenderness of nations. That's why I'd like to start with it. "Con sociarid que es la tererura de los pueblos." And if we're supportive, we also have to be critical, because, if not, it's just a facewash. Because, I ask you a question: who are we in solidarity with? Norekin's gara solidarioak? We are in solidarity, we are in solidarity with the victims of the system, of this economic system, an economic system that is predatory of life and of the planet. I'm just going to give you one thing: half of the planet's wealth is in the hands of 1% of the population. That is the fact that illustrates what is the system in which we live. And if they need more data, because we have an economic model that in Euskadi consumes seven times as many resources as we have in order to function, and that creates victims of precarious lives in the north and drowns lives in the south, that is the perverse logic of the system and those consequences are those that are attempted to alleviate since cooperation. And at this moment the solidarity with the struggles of the people is contrary to capitalism and imperialism, which is solidarity. And that means being in solidarity with those victims I was talking about, being in solidarity with the victims of the struggle of the peoples of the world in defense of their natural resources. From the struggle of the peoples of the world against the impositions of anti-democratic bodies such as the IMF or the European Union, of multinationals, and the people who are on the Human Rights Commission or on the External Action Commission, you will surely be tired of receiving leaders from different countries of the world, who come with displacement problems, who come with problems of murder of their communities, and, curiously, they always say something in common: development, multinationals, extractivism, that is what, after all, is at the root of all problems. And to be supportive is not to put on the same level the oppressor and the oppressed, as does, for example, an amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, to a non-law proposal by Elkarrekin We can in solidarity with the Palestinian people. We can never put the oppressor and the oppressed on the same level. And being supportive is being consistent or at least trying, because no one is exempt from having contradictions. We can't go on with that 'good white man looking for poor black to help' thing, which is the model some people have in their heads. No podemos seguir con una pollítica de cooperación avantationada por las ONG de nuestro país; yes, he has a great opportunity to improve, he has a ringer-headed process, and he's very critical with the system that's on, pero podemos mejor. Podemus mejor murcho es cooperación, pero no potemus seguir cone cooperación avanzada, and at the same time spreading culture of competition or competition in our society, privatization and demeritization, premeries, education resilance, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. We've got a pretty advanced cooperation policy, but our international policy is still on the line of neoliberialism. We have tried to penetrate into the coherence of these three years; we have placed our proposals on the table, even in this tribe, and have negotiated with the government, and had some agreements, but in the last moment, this agreement was cancelled in June. And it is important to talk about policy coherence, because there are the policy of cooperation and the policy of internationalisation in two rather stagnant compartments. Because the Basque Agency for Cooperation supports, through the NGO, processes of empowerment of indigenous peoples and peasants; for example, in Colombia, in the Cauca. I will set an example which is that, but at the same time it shuts down when a hydroelectric project called Hidroituango ends the lives of hundreds of people and the way of life of thousands of people. Someone is also asking me why the Basque Government has to say something about a hydroelectric project that is being done in Colombia, with which we have nothing to do. Well, yes, we do have something to do with it, there's a bank called Bank Bilbao Argentaria Vizcaya, which has a tax base in Bilbao, and we'll have to think something about what a company based here does. Since we do not have the business and human rights plan, we do not know what the Government intends to do in that regard. Therefore, consistency is important when Mrs Tapia comes here and says that, as there are other companies that violate international law in the occupation of Israel and Palestine, why not Basque companies are going to do the same, why we are going to stay behind. What a competition we've been aiming for. And what's the point of supporting projects that sustain Israel's occupation, and then making an agreement with the UNRWA Is that what you're talking about? What for, to wash our faces? I believe that, if we are to spend money on alleviating the situation of Palestinian refugees, we must not contribute, by action or omission, to their situation. Or that's why they are revolting, and that's what we're very used to in the commission, too, when people come, for example, like the anti-restorage movement in Brazil, and it mentions another company with fiscal headquarters in Bilbao, or when the people of Mexico come – and next week they will come – with the Tehuantepec isthmus project, and they mention Iberdrola, who is behind those projects, and here everyone is revolting, because something of coherence we'll have to have. Or with a proposal that we made quite moderate, which was a statement that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to make an effort to transform the war industry in the short, medium and long term in the Basque Country. If we do not change it, we will continue to have these problems of coherence. Esaten nuen solidario riseda koherentzia riseda, edo behintzat saiatzea, behintzat lantzea zentzu horretan. And, in this legislature, there have been several initiatives rejected by both Elkarrekin Podemos and other groups, and in this case, we will see what happens also with this initiative of EH Bildu, but since Mrs Urrea has explained the proposals that we also share in cooperation policy, I want to take this opportunity: in June, in this forum, it was said that a plan of companies and human rights would come; we know nothing about it; I even saw the cover, but we know nothing about it. We don't know what's going on: I don't know if you have more information about that plan that was sold so much a few months ago; I don't know if Mrs. Tapia will be stopping it, if there are even bigger tapes between Lehendakaritza and the Department of Economic Development; let someone explain it to me, because it's a pity the truth. It is a pity that a policy that has the majority consensus of the Basque people will be cut year by year, and that a Basque law of cooperation, adopted in this House, which has the same validity as the education law and any other law, and which is establishing a percentage, moreover, that is not being complied with. And I don't know, we certainly have some kind of innovation in the justification for not meeting 0.7% in this legislature; but, well, I invite you to see the data on the collection of foral estates and Lehendakaritza. But it doesn't even seem to me that we have to buy that whole argument, because solidarity has to be at all times, and that's what the law says; but, beyond the law, which comes very clearly in the transaction, what we want through that law... and we insist that it is important to be consistent, I first, and I hope so. That is why we advocate that there should be a business and human rights plan, or that there should be a policy coherence plan, so that we can all be able to consolidate a policy, beyond the budgetary issue, which, I insist, is also the basis for future agreements, and if it is not fulfilled, we will not be in any other agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u83	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u84	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good afternoon now. I would like to say, rather than from the dark side from which Mr Martínez has done it, from the positive side, from the positive side that we all know about cooperation, and to deepen, of course, from that positive side in Basque cooperation. This is a relevant issue. We, from the Group of the European People's Party, have always given it great importance; in this Parliament, we have talked about this issue and have always, and we have said this, acknowledged that Basque solidarity, which has been exemplary, is exemplary (civil organizations, social organizations, the Church, organizations around it or non-governmental organizations, missionaries, that is, a lot of people, also others not linked to the Church, doctors, health workers...). That is to say, it has been a factor, of course, in development cooperation, which continues today, has it not? And that we, of course, want to defend and we want to propitiate and maintain. Of course, we have also been able to hear in this Parliament, and recently, the views and proposals of non-governmental development organisations, through their Coordinator, at different times, the most recent one on 16 September this year, haven't we? In this Parliament we have also spoken in the general guidelines of the 2018-2021 Multiannual Strategic Planning for Development Cooperation, in the Commission on Human Rights, two years ago, and there a number of motions for resolutions were adopted. We have known the Master Plan for Development Cooperation 2018-2021. We have also heard explanations from the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation; the Director was also on that date when non-governmental organizations appeared. We are not talking about anything different at this time, about what were the motions for resolutions, those 35 motions for resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights of 20 December 2017, which addressed those general guidelines. Interesting, very interesting guidelines, which gave rise to the above-mentioned master plan and in which we, my group, included economic increases for the various financial years. And yet, we understand, and we have done so every time we have been able, that greater economic efforts can continue to be made on this issue. And we're not gonna do anything else. And we're also going to take advantage of it right now. Then there will be budgets; but, in any case, we take advantage of it every time we can, the power to increase, the power to influence, the greatest economic quantity in relation to development cooperation. We are not going to do anything other than what we have done and the proposals we have had in recent years. We have to remember the draft budgets in which we participated, the 17th, the 18th and the extension, with increases, of course, in the budget for the initial project, in the master plan, where we also included increases for the four years in relation to the items. Trying to increase those funds is what we can also understand today, those solidarity and development funds, and what can be done, and as we understand that can be done, because we also need to continue to deepen, I say again, by addressing the issue from a positive and developmental and potential point of view, and not denying that that possibility is there. Of course, we, as we have to say, have to justify it, in the humanistic nature of our political formation, which makes it possible for us to understand as responsible, as feasible, to extend the funds of cooperation in proposals in the sense that this community, this autonomous community, can work through its resources. And we also base it on what is the Basque law itself of 2007. It is a good law and, of course, from our point of view, that is the path that marks and that is where we want to go, even in proposals that can sometimes cause a little inconvenience to the Government or that can cause the Government not to understand them very well, not to fit them very well into a budgetary dynamic, but that we understand that they are feasible. A little annoyance of the Government by budgetary dynamics does not mean that they are not feasible. So in that sense... and that, when we were able to negotiate, we did. I believe that for the Government in addition, for the groups that support the Government, the proposed text is not bad. For the government, I put myself in the hands of the government, I think the proposed text is fine. The motions for resolutions themselves, which I would like to remind you of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which presented the debate on the general guidelines, are in the same direction as these proposals, which we can be talking about today. They are framed in the same direction. Man, we must remember a very clear one in relation to proposal 14: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government not to abandon the effort to increase funds for development cooperation, nor to give up progress in the commitment to reach 0.7 of the available budget...". That commitment that's there... It's dilated for needs, yes I can understand it. Yeah, besides, I can share it, but it's there. That is, they are commitments that you have already made. That is to say, in this sense, I ask you, therefore, to participate positively in this agreement which can be reached. Well, they'll explain it to us right away, won't they? I also thank the signatories of the compromise proposal for the reformulation, somewhat... I believe that in the points of the original proposal there are subjects for other debates, independent of the subject of economic priority or the budget. I believe that there are other issues that are relevant, in relation to the criteria, in relation to corporate responsibility, in relation to other issues, which, if they are mixed up a lot, sometimes I think they can have their own identity, and we can raise it at this time. That is to say, because the compromise proposal at the end of the day is what it seeks to do, and what we are going to support, is to recognise the trajectory of Basque cooperation, and I said this at the beginning of my speech: to urge the Basque Government to take the development cooperation policy as a consolidated public policy. I, too, believe that it does, but urging those issues is not wrong either, continuing to urge, within the framework of what we are talking about, to carry out that stable, consolidated public policy, to be strengthened and implemented in partnership, is normal, and we have been asked by non-governmental organizations to speak in that regard in a more forceful way, for we do so. The third is clear that it is our amendment: that the Basque Parliament should urge the Basque Government to increase the development cooperation budget, and that we already have in the House. For we have done so when we have been able to negotiate, and we continue to do so. Imagine that we have reached an agreement on budgets, because you have no doubt that this cooperation fund will be increased with the amendments that we could or could adopt in this regard. Either way, we're gonna introduce them. So, regardless of whether there is no budget agreement, the amendments we are putting forward to the increase in development cooperation funds can be approved. And the last one is to remember that we have two laws... How angry you are when it comes to budgets and negotiations. It's amazing. It's my turn to speak. The two laws of 2007 are there, well, to urge compliance because it is normal, that is, to urge or not to urge, or not to say it or to say it. I believe that, in the framework of this agreement, I say again, there were other issues; we have tried to separate them, and they will be formulated at another time in other debates. But, here, we have focused on the economic effort, and we ask you to make an effort. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u85	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u86	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors and counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on guztioi. Today we are debating in this plenary an initiative by EH Bildu on the importance of Basque development cooperation. And from the Socialist Group, the first thing I want to say and the first thing we have to say is that the wording of the proposal, the title of the proposal, seems impeccable to us, starting from an express recognition that we have always expressed from our side to basic cooperation. And it seems impeccable to us because I believe that it is peaceful to consider that the policies of cooperation in our country are public policies, consolidated and stable, which have also reached a very high consensus not only between political parties, but also between Basque society itself. The reason for this is that these policies seek to promote and collaborate in building a better world, a world where the basic conditions of equality, peace, justice and freedom reach all people, especially the most vulnerable. They are also policies that affect the validity and promotion, as it cannot otherwise be, of human rights, since they constitute the cornerstone on which the ideological and instrumental structure of our development cooperation is based. A cooperation that for us can only be understood for an effective, sustainable development, in necessary collaboration with non-governmental development organizations, appropriate to the resources available, focused on the strategic axes of intervention, and also because they are a sign of commitment and solidarity in the process of social transformation. In our country, Mrs Urrea also said that internationalist solidarity and the recognition of the need to adapt to the processes of transformation produced in recent years are intended to characterize a new model, which is also ours, taking into account the common responsibility in the defence of human rights, based on gender equity and the empowerment of women, and the awareness of Basque citizens in order to achieve a more just world. So we agree, I think everyone, in what is the initiative. We must now say, indeed, that, as Mr Barrio also recalled, on 24 July 2018 the Governing Council approves the IV Master Plan for Development Cooperation 2018-2021. And as a starting point for its elaboration, there are general guidelines, to which Mr Barrio also referred, of the Multiannual Strategic Planning 2018-2021, and also the evaluation of the III Master Plan 2014-2017, as well as, indeed, the 35 resolutions that were adopted in the Human Rights Commission of this Parliament, following the discussion of those resolutions and of those general guidelines, which was also supplemented on 20 December 2017. It has been little more than a year since the adoption of the Fourth Plan, and it must be said, in our view, although everything is better and perfectable, that we are moving forward with a sustained step towards meeting the challenges now and in the future, which are none other than the following: on the one hand, consolidating the policy of cooperation, providing it with sufficient resources, continuing with the annual increase in the percentage of public funds; betting on the progress, on coherence, of policies for development; promoting intra- and inter-institutional coordination; expanding the social base and co-responsibility, promoting the necessary alliances and synergies, as well as the sustained impetus for the promotion of critical citizenship with injustice, poverty and inequality. In short, it is a matter of progress in the development of the master plan itself, which sets out all this about what I am talking about, as well as progress in the Basque strategy of cooperation for social transformation (H)abian 2030, which, as you know, also seeks to boost the awareness of citizens, the local-global approach or link to overcome the north-south division, which Mr Martínez was also talking about. And all this by promoting joint contributions by our institutions, NGOs and other organizations and movements, to the educational processes, which really contribute to a social transformation, in which respect for human rights, equitable relations of power, are a reality in this globalized world in which we have lived. He said before that everything is improveable, everything is perfectable; but, in recent years, Basque cooperation has not ceased to be an important reference, and this plan and all the actions that are being done are on that path. And that is why I insist that the wording of the proposal presented to us is correct, it seems perfect to us, but we must recognize what is being done. And I have been talking to you about all this, which is what is reflected in our whole amendment, which we consider to be more realistic, fairer, more on the basis of reality. With regard to the compromise amendment, to go a little bit further, I would basically raise two questions: firstly, with regard to the two issues outlined in points one and two, we would agree; obviously, in the first I believe there is no doubt that cooperation will be recognised in these 30 years. And it should also be said that, well, well, indeed, here we talk about pushing... The Basque Government is urged to take over the Basque Government, but the Basque Government has taken on all these issues, Mrs Urrea. And with regard to point three, it must be said that, as we pointed out in paragraph 1 of our paragraph 2 of the amendment of the whole that we have tabled, we believe that the annual increase for development cooperation, as has been done since 2013, should be continued, without prejudice to the fact that for the Socialist Group, as I believe that for the rest of the groups in this House, the 0.7 percentage is an essential aspect. I would like to recall that, in life and in this country, the only time that this percentage was reached was in the Socialist government of Patxi López, in a much more, in short, critical economic situation. I believe that we must move forward and that is the approach that our group is taking – I repeat – without abandoning the achievement of that 0.7 % or even higher percentages. But, well, that's also where the budget is available. We must be realistic, we must present and propose proposals in a frank way and, above all, we must also preach with the example, because it is very easy to get here and ask, do not wait for the elm, but an effort that is not made in other institutions. And, finally, what is at stake is that this is all very well, but we must also work from the opposition groups to promote a proactive budgetary negotiation, which will allow, in the end, by saying where it comes from and where it goes, what we are going to do, regardless of whether there is an express commitment, I believe, on the part of the Government, to increase, as agreed in those resolutions and as is acknowledged in the IV Master Plan itself, the budgetary contributions. And finally, with regard to point four, I believe that this is closely related to point three and, of course, what is being achieved is the increases envisaged in the budget framework of the IV Master Plan. And it must also be acknowledged that if it has not been achieved it has been because of a situation to which you have referred, a systemic crisis, which is currently not happening and which I therefore believe will be able to go beyond the amounts that are being claimed. In short, our whole amendment seems to us to be more correct, more realistic and fairer, and therefore we cannot support the compromise signed by EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, even if we agree on nuclear matters, Mrs Urrea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u88	Thank you, ma'am, Chief of Parliament, Mr. Chief, members of the legislature, guests to all good days. Euskadi is a solid people: Consolidative people, consolidation, social tissue, are our institutions too. It is a small people in Euskawa; a small people, who wish to be their place in the world, who know their place, and who have known the people who are most in need of it. To do that, we started a road 30 years ago, the road that gave importance to cooperation. He resolved not to turn his back to the accidents that happen in the world we live in. And this path has given its fruit, so that we may say it has been a fruitful path. And it's been productive because there have been so many of the projects that we've been through all the world's problems. And that path, today, goes on. Even if everything we've done around our co-worker has made us a professor, it's highly appreciated, especially in the last few years, an effort. Important efforts have been made by the Basque Government over the past few years. Even during the toughest years of the economic crisis, the commitment to development cooperation has remained, a commitment that has made us a benchmark. It refers to our environment, yes; but it also refers to the international landscape. But, as you well know, it is a sign of identity of the Basque institutions, and in particular of the Basque Government, not to fall into self-congratulation. Proof of this is that, from 2013 until today, the development cooperation heading has been increased year after year. Last week we met, by the hands of the Sailburu And it is that, if a person who knows absolutely nothing about the matter and hears the speeches of certain opposition groups came to this Parliament today, that person would think that the situation in Euskadi is a disaster. That person would think, for example, that Euskadi invests less than other countries or regions in its environment in development cooperation. But do you know what's going on? That reality says that Euskadi invests more. That person would, for example, think that the implementation of the budget has not reached a satisfactory level. But do you know what's going on? That reality tells us that the implementation of the budget last year was 99%. If he took the text of the proposer, he would think that the Basque Government had done absolutely nothing about awareness-raising and awareness-raising. But the reality is that, in 2017, the 2030 Strategy for Awareness, Awareness and Education for Social Transformation was approved. And it is that, Mrs Urrea, you were not in this Parliament in 2017; neither was I, but do you know what is going on? Do you know what's going on? That the work of this Parliament does not begin and end with ourselves. We may or may not be, may go or come, but the country does not stop; the institutions do not stop, and the activity of the Government does not stop. I am very glad that you are concerned about awareness and awareness; we are concerned too. But I am pleased to say that the Government also occupied, occupied and worried him. And it occupied him so much that the master plan establishes a reserve of 13% of the funds to actions developed in Euskadi. Page 31, chapter VIII, media. I'm sure some of your teammates can help you with the master plan; if you don't, I'll get it to you. Don't worry, don't worry... As for social movements, there are co-workers involved. There are several projects that have been carried along with them: The women's March, the Via Campesina... It's been working with them for a long time, and the frame is set, so that they can have an active share in the cooperation strategy. And you know the frame, the council. I suppose you will recognize the formation or composition of the council, won't you? You say you have to work with people who have no state; of course you have to work, and the government has been working for a long time: there are different projects that have advanced in Palestine, Sahara, Indian countries... You know what? Wherever there is need, Euskawa is there. They talk about turning inter-institutional work into the identity sign of Basque cooperation. Interinstitutional work is the sign of Basque cooperation, and proof of this are different projects that have been carried out. See, proof of this, an example, is the Water and Sanitation Program in Central America, carried out in Nicaragua and Costa Rica, developed by URA, Amvisa and the Bilbao Water Consortium. Moreover, the Basque Public Cooperation Portal, developed by the three deputies, the municipalities of the three capitals and Euskal Fonda. That plan – that portal, he forgives – was presented to us at the Commission on Human Rights during the month of September, by the director of the Basque Agency for Cooperation. If all this seems to you little, there's more. The Government is working to improve the resources of the Basque Cooperation Agency, to improve human and technical resources. Indeed, work is being done to improve the headquarters, to improve the headquarters, so that the team of workers and professionals of the Basque Cooperation Agency can have a place according to their work and the budget that is managed in the agency, in order to be able to carry out their work. And, of course, efforts are being made to improve the agency's technical team, indeed, because a budget at the level of the Department for Development Cooperation deserves a larger team than it has, and as well prepared as the workers it has today. Look, ladies and gentlemen, development cooperation had so far been a peaceful matter, it had enjoyed some consensus, we could even say that it had remained outside the struggle of the parties; today that has changed. What was the reason? Is the situation in Euskadi, with regard to development cooperation, worse today than it was a few years ago? No, no, Is today less invested in Euskadi than a few years ago? No, no, So, what has changed? If the situation has not gone any worse and today is reversed more than a few years ago, why is development cooperation being used today as a bold weapon? What's this about? – is it about, what is not achieved – to wear down the government with development cooperation? I imagine something will have to do with the fact that tonight an election campaign begins. But that is a question that I do not have to answer; it is a question that certain opposition groups have to answer. But while you answer, I'm going to allow myself a license. That license leads me to say that, if you really want to increase the economic means for cooperation and development, you have an opportunity. Enjoy it; this is your time. Look, we're on the verge of a budget negotiation. A number of amendments are going to be opened: if you really want the parties to go up, get wet. Move, make proposals, make efforts. Do you know what's going on? Look, last week a member of this Parliament agreed to use a saying – it finally went backwards – that said "and turn the burra into wheat". For I am going to use a very similar, very similar saying, which has to do with the same cereal and which comes to say something else, and which describes very well the position of certain groups in this House: "it is one thing to preach, and another to give wheat". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u89	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Gold, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u90	Thank you, ma'am. Lord Diez, you've missed one thing; you've missed telling us the joke. I say that he has failed to tell us the joke, because during our intervention, especially in mine and in Elkarrekin Podemos, with this subject that is supposedly so serious and so important to him, he has been laughing all the time, without paying attention to what we were talking about. I think he missed telling us the joke... I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Diez. Indeed, you were not here; I was here in the last legislature. I have been in charge of this issue, and I have put forward very important cooperation policies which have been approved by this House, but which, oh, surprise!, have been systematically ignored, such as law enforcement. Because you, for what you want, are adelids of law enforcement. But when it comes to them, when it involves getting wet, getting angry, they really get over them and completely obviate them. And that is what we must denounce in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not something that this parliamentary group has raised because it did, because it has occurred to it or because it was passing through here. Go to the NGO Coordinator, who aggregates nothing more and nothing less than 80 NGOs. You were talking about that person, that person who comes through here and you'll see what's really going on. No, not that person, those hundreds of people who work in NGOs, whom you here today have disrespected. Because these people are getting skinned. They are leaving the skin to get precisely to deepen in the ending of existing inequalities. They are leaving their skin, despite the multiple obstacles. You were talking here about an increase of 3 million. An increase of three million in a reduction last year, for this 2019, of 5.3 million less in 2019, and which increase 3 million. Do the calculus: I suppose you can do the calculus and you will realize that there is a brutal cut. And it is that, in addition, these $5.3 million that were cut for this exercise, were already cut further. We are in moments and situations prior to 2008, ladies and gentlemen. What's this called? We are talking, and Mrs Gallástegui spoke of beautiful words, of consideration together, – let us say – having a relationship in this regard, and agreeing and taking into account that identity of Basque cooperation. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are also in the government, and you are doing nothing, and nothing has been done either when, from 2012 to 2016, important proposals were put forward in this House, because at the time, Mr Unzalu was also calling for incapacity. And that from the Basque Nationalist Party already told them no, no, no; don't put us in, because, look, we already told them where they want the parties and said no, put us in Lasarte, put us in our municipalities, the parties; don't put us in cooperation for development. And this happened in front of the NGO Coordinator herself, who were terrified of this situation. It is not a matter that we bring in because it is; it is that the situation is bloody. I will remind you of the letter that the NGO coordinator herself sent to Mr Jonan Fernández, with an even budgetary proposal, which did not come close to that 0.7% trying to be generous – although it is already well, but they were trying to be generous. And they were talking about 0.45% for the year 2020. Well, we're at 0.41... Are you going to do what you have to do and, at least out of deference to those 80 Basque NGOs, are you going to increase by 4% in the budgets, in this draft that we are in time to amend, in terms of cooperation? Are you going to be able to be consistent with those grandiose words, which, really, day by day, and where you have to be, seem not to be? Because it seems that they are only in this House and that they have not spoken at any time with the NGO Coordinator. But it is that the NGO Coordinator, on September 16, has been on the Human Rights Commission appearing, and has been demolishing her appearance – has she been, Mr. Díez? Well, it looks like he's got nothing left –... Their appearance has been demolishing and, of course, they affirm, with roundness and force, the need to row in this context and at this international political juncture, in times of crisis, to row in the same direction and to increase public funds. In that sincerity of an increase in public funds you will find us, we will be on your side; but, of course, to keep cleaning up the face of the Government, we are not ready to continue with this game. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end with a paragraph in an article written by the NGO Coordinator, who, by the way, did not like this government at all, and I understand it, which is entitled When rhetoric wins political action Please apply the story, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Elkarrekin Podemos, Martinez Zatón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u92	Mrs. Gallastegui, I'm going to give you some ideas where you can get the money from: EUR 13 million of the agreement with the Opus schools which segregate by sex; of this infamous tax reform signed by the PNV, the PSE and the PP, which have made workers pay more, even more, and companies pay less. Do not hide now in the collection success: that collection success is based on the fact that the workers pay, we pay more; that's what comes. And we could make a long list of ideas where to get that money. And yes, I too am passing through this House; I have been a short time, we are all passing through, but the struggles and processes have been going on for years, and that is why I believe that the recognition that is being made in the first proposal of the transaction, of the 30 years of the cooperation policy, I think it is enough to illustrate the seriousness with which the groups that have signed that transaction take this issue. And I say this as a representative of Elkarrekin We can, as a former NGO worker and as a former member of the Basque Cooperation Council, that I am not new in this matter. And besides, I was talking about coherence, and look, I belong to a very small political party, it's called the United Left, and we have 1% in the statutes for solidarity programmes, and we do it year by year. And that is the example with which we want him to go to the rest of the institutions. There's a law... In a city council, there may be the will or can be approved by the groups of the Chamber, as for example had Gasteiz and did Gasteiz; but it is that in Euskadi we have a law, approved in this Chamber, which is not fulfilled, and they can give the arguments they want, they can come with poetry, literature and reports from EITB; they can come with whatever they want, but they are not complying with a law. If you want to make excuses or you want to put any other arguments on the table, whatever you want, but the fulfillment of a law is on the table, and of that Mr. Díez has said nothing. Nor about policy coherence, and I think it is very important. I also invite you, as you invited Mrs Urrea to review the Master Plan for Cooperation, which I am sure you know, to read my speeches and my proposals on cooperation in this legislature, on policy coherence, on the seriousness with which we are taking ourselves. And we say that we take as a reference, beyond our own political agenda, the policy coherence document that is approved by the Government. But that document has a serious problem, which is stuck in a drawer, which does not apply, which does not move from the Basque Cooperation Agency; that is the problem of that document. I too, and Mr Uria also in some intervention, have talked about that coherence document, which is worth – well, it weighs little –... But it's worth more than his weight in gold. What happens is that it doesn't apply, and there are other departments that ignore it. And coherence is also to say certain political opinions, and this government – I have been reiterating, that it is not a question of competence, that it is a question of political opinion – has had, during this legislature, for example, with the situation we had in the port of Bilbao, with the export of arms, or with the situation that took place in the middle of civilian flights at the airport of Bilbao, with an arms charge intended for a certain African country, or with the opinion of the government that does not dare to seek, in defence of the future employment and development of that company, a company that, moreover, also within the framework of the Basque Country Strategy, is going to build what it simply said the other day, looks like a simple tram, but that is violating international law. That is the problem, which is not a question of the weight of money, which the law says is 0.7, but the law says many other things, and the agency has also approved other documents, such as the one called the work of coherence, and of that, Mr Diez, you have said absolutely nothing, and I invite you, if not today, other days, to work together with that document and to carry out initiatives that, in June – the truth that we do not yet know the interference from where it came from, because we have not been told – from one day to another, changed. I invite you; we still have time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u93	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u94	Thank you, Madam President; with your permission, from the seat. To tell Mr Díez that I congratulate him on his brilliant and clear speech on this issue, but he has also placed himself a little on the dark side. That is to say, I was telling Mr Martínez, and he has claimed it again in this second intervention, that for Mr Martínez everything is wrong, he said it at first, and now he has said it, recalling certain inefficiencies or subjectivities of his in relation to what works or does not work. But you too have placed yourself saying that someone will see. No, no... Someone who comes through here and finds out and worries will know that cooperation, as I have told him from the rostrum, has been exemplary, continues to go a good way, but that we can do many more things. And you all know that it is true, that there has been more collection, that there is surplus, that there can be more funds because for other things there is already, for the EITB there is what is needed, right? In other words, there may be many more funds for cooperation, and in that sense, as that is a political issue that we all understand, it is not going to be an element of confrontation for me. I want it to be, in this sense – that is why I am moving away from the dark side and I ask you to do so too – that it is an element of construction in relation to this issue, and that is why I want to claim that 0.7 has already been applied, in the City Council of Vitoria that ruled Mr Alonso and Mr Maroto applied, or in Mr Rabanera's Foral Diputación de Álava as well. I have to claim it, and I ask you to take note of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u95	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u96	Thank you, President. Yes, very briefly, I would like to begin by certifying one thing: I believe that there is a unanimous agreement on the recognition of development cooperation in Euskadi. And I think that it is not right for development cooperation to occur in these situations, in which, in the end, the discussion is a little high in tone, and above all, when there is no proactivity to recognize that, from each other's positions, there is a determined bet to continue maintaining a flagship, a sign of identity, of our country. What I would also like to say is that, by mentioning the 2019 budgets, if I am not mistaken, in the budgetary platform that EH Bildu presented or raised, there was not a single issue relating to development cooperation. So, let's make things clear in that sense. I also want to say something else: you say that nothing has been done, that nothing is progressing, that there has been no step forward... Well, I bumped into you in the legislature. 2012-2016; I do know that you were moving forward, dealing with these issues, presenting initiatives in this area, and I recognize your work, your awareness, in relation to development cooperation, but development cooperation has not been born with you. I mean, actually, it seems that now, since you've come here, you're starting to activate this, and this will help me to tell Mr. Martinez Zatón something later, but it hasn't caused Bildu the big bang. In this case, it is the first initiative to be presented in 22 months. Since you and I left this Parliament, things have actually been done: this master plan has been adopted, all the guidelines we are talking about have been adopted, those motions for resolutions have been adopted, and what we all agree on is that there is an express recognition of Basque cooperation, and this is not only by spontaneous generation, so four years have been done and not by infused science. In other words, there is a proactivity in the government, and I believe that it is appropriate – in some way and in political groups – to recognise it. I was telling him about the 22 months of inaction, because the last initiative of this kind that I have seen is an initiative of Podemos; specifically, a motion after an inquiry to the lehendakari in relation to this matter, which has been paralysed since then, and which captures exactly the four points of the now used amendment of totality that Podemos presented for this initiative. I'll leave it there. Like that one said: there I leave it. But I want to say that we are not going to put banners here, when I actually believe that work has to be joint, proactive, with the government, with the opposition, in a matter like this, which, as I say, has a lot to do with human rights, with equality, with social justice... I love you, Mr. Barrio. The truth is that you are a free verse, and I know perfectly well that you believe in what you say, but you represent a party that, in fact, has done many things in development cooperation, especially when you have been in government. He has done many things, such as, for example, leaving thousands of co-workers and hundreds of organizations in the most absolute vacuum of means and institutional political support. It has pursued a policy of annihilation of resources and emptied cooperation of content. And I will give you an example: what has happened, in the last few months, in Andalusia? Please, Mr Barrio, you, with the government agreement with VOX, have carried out international cooperation as a public policy of the Andalusian Board. And not just with that excuse to return powers to the state. This is an ideological bet to suppress, from autonomous action in Andalusia, any activity of international collaboration in favor of human rights. And you have skipped the regulatory framework both autonomous and state in this regard. I don't know if it was Churchill paraphrasing Shakespeare, but the truth is, there are times when politics makes some strange bedfellows. You'll know where you've been, and if this marriage of convenience now suits you. What I am asking is that I agree with you, I agree with you, I recognize you, but you do something to keep your party on the path that you, with more common sense, are taking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Urrea, laughing and smiling is not the same. It's not the same. It's the first time I've been seen smiling. Well, I don't know... You say I missed telling a joke in politics. I believe that there is no shortage of formations in this Parliament that make jokes policy. Look, Mrs. Gold, with all due respect, you seem to think nothing has happened since you were here, that this parliament has been closed. This bill has been opened, and the government has acted. Look, this is a Parliament, and here we come to talk, indeed. I recognize that you make it wonderful; it is very difficult to compete in that with you, but you also come to make decisions and show responsibility. And by making decisions, could you tell me just one decision that you have made your party that has benefited from the development cooperation situation in Euskadi? One, could you tell me? Could you tell me, in the municipalities where they govern, in the parliaments where they govern, what has made development cooperation better? And it also says, Mrs Urrea, that the moment there is an increase in funds you would be with us. That is not true, I have already told you: the development cooperation heading, in the draft budgets for the year 2020, increases by 3 million. And it increases in line with what the master plan establishes, which you say you do know but that you seem not to know, because the forecasts are there... And they increase the lines. No, there are no cuts, Mrs Urrea; there is an increase. Mr Martínez Zatón, you tell me about policy coherence. We fully agree; we believe that policy coherence should be a pillar of development cooperation, and we believe that it is a pillar of development cooperation in Euskadi. But I'm going to talk to him about another term, I'm going to ask him for coherence in politics. You're a member of a party, a coalition, a movement, a circle... I don't know what you're a member of, who has government responsibilities in several autonomous communities in the state. Could a single autonomous community tell me where it invests more than in Euskadi in development cooperation? Could you just tell me one? I know you don't have a shift after that, but I'm telling you, there's none. There's none! It gives me the feeling that you see the straw in the other's eye, but you're not able to see the beam in your own, and it looks like it's going to refrain today morning. I'll read tasty; I'll read tasty your speeches. I haven't had a chance to read them all; some I admit I have, but I'll read tasty. Mr. Barrio, I don't know if you're a rowing fan. What you've done today is a back-to-back stork. A stork that gives us good news, because you say that the economic situation in Euskadi is so good that we must increase – that the collection is good because the economic situation is good –... that we must increase the development cooperation heading. Listen, please tell Mrs. Garrido, who came out here earlier to say that if the situation in Euskadi was a disaster, that if I don't know what... Tell him, please. Or, have you marked so much of your own profile that you have different profiles of your own, even within your own parliamentary group? Mr. Barrio, Mr. Barrio, you have not signed, Mr. Barrio, you have not signed the proposal, Mr. Barrio...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u99	Silence. Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u100	... You have not signed the compromise proposal that you are going to support today certain groups in the House. She hasn't signed it, but she's negotiated it, she's taken over it, and she seems to be voting for it. Could you explain to me why you didn't sign it then? Okay. Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Barrio, you have heard Mr Martínez Zatón's speech. I imagine you've heard about Iberdrola, the BBVA, the CAF... Do you agree with that? Do you agree with that? He doesn't agree, okay...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u101	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u102	... that belonged to the dark side of Martínez Zatón's intervention; I am very glad that he does not agree with that. And well, finally, to conclude, a consideration for everyone: I think you should take advantage of it. I said that in my first speech. I believe that your votes, still today, are essential, or essential or necessary or important, in order to form a majority. We don't know if they're going to stay that way in the future. If you do not take advantage of it and the budget line does not increase by more than the draft budget already increases, I think that is the case. – you who have spoken about the Coordinator, you who have spoken about the NGOs – that you will have, at least, the responsibility to go where they are and tell them that, if that item does not increase by more than the budget proposal increases, it is because you have preferred to campaign electorally than to remarry and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u103	Thank you, Mr. Díez. When we're done arguing, we're going to vote, EH Collect, and we're gonna have the middle-class correction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 34; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u104	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 34; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u105	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, the Basque Socialists and the Eunciators will vote for the full correction of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 37; the opposites 26; the whites, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u106	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "To collect, and to encourage together, as the parliamentary policy of the Podemos, the protection of the marines of Ulia and Jakulabel, as well as the protection of the rest of the Podemos. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good evenings. In today's initiative, we will defend the necessity of protecting the Cape of Ulia-Jawracle, and we will defend the existence of existing habitats and decosystems, in order to survive and provide for the improved species that live there. And to protect the natural center of the Ulia-Jazbel is not only for the environment, but for the benefit of the economy, and above all for the eternal fishing. We've been up and down on this law and this town for a long time. In 2010, for the first time, the Oceana corporations and the Biologists, and the following year, in February 2011, it was demanded and admitted here in the legislature. But from there, and though they have been almost eight years, there has been no progress, though hitherto there has been agreement between them all, between the scientists and the technicians and the institutions and even in political matters. That's why this initiative is so important and now. I could draw attention to why an initiative is being taken to protect – let me say – a piece of sea, a marine space. The two questions that would arise are why we should protect it and why those who have to protect it, or take the first step, are the Basque Government, when it is the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. In my brief speech, I will try to answer these two questions. Why protect him? Well, obviously, the answer is because it has value. It's of great value. It has great ecological value, but it also has economic value. And we don't have to mix them, but the reality is this, that normally the environment has value for itself, but it also has value for the society in which it is inserted. Because here we find a stretch of coast, that of Ulia-Jaizkibel, which is a semi-virgin stretch, where hundreds of important species live, including dolphins and whales that come to this place, and because, next to this stretch of sea, there is a piece of land, which is the area of special conservation Ulia-Jaizkibel, which is already protected. And because nature does not understand boundaries and does not understand spatial boundaries, and what is protected on earth makes no sense that it is not protected at sea, because it is a single continuity. And I said that it has an ecological value, but that this ecological value, in turn, is an economic value, because in the area of Ulia-Jaizkibel, in the marine space, it has been fished for a long time and has been fished well. Sargos, gilded, lubines, soles, salmonets, verdel, chicharro, chipirones, necoras and bogavantes have been caught. And because, moreover, it is the area of the Basque coast with the highest productivity of the agar-agar algae, which, although it does not sound to some, is an algae that is used profusely in food, in the pharmaceutical industry and in laboratories. But I am not talking about exploiting this area economically, but about protecting it. Then they will say where economic value comes from; therefore, that when we protect a marine space, when we protect a space like this, there are multiple international studies that show that the unprotected areas of the environment enrich their ecological and economic value, and that there is a direct benefit in the areas surrounding the protected space. And here I have to refer to the question of the reality and the future of bass fishing in Euskadi, which is in an unstoppable decline, due to overfishing, both of its own and of others and, therefore, to protect the species of the space Ulia-Jaizkibel and to protect this area is to sow today to collect in the future. Because around Ulia-Jaizkibel we have three ports – Getaria, Hondarribia and Pasaia – which, by themselves, account for 57% of all Euskadi catches and 75% of the revenue received from fishing in our country. And yet, in these three ports, in the last 35 years, the decline has been of a fall of almost half of the fleet that has registered and registered. Hence the importance of the Basque Government, instead of shielding itself from the competence of the Ministry of the Environment to declare the marine reserves, adopting, at once, a leadership attitude in this area and, on the basis of the consensus that already exists in our country, putting itself to work, once and for all. Why have I mentioned earlier the non-legislative proposal that was passed in this Parliament in February 2011? But I now mention the statement made by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council in 2012, the agreement at the 2013 Basque Governing Council. And yet none of that has been put into practice. We can shield ourselves, and it is true, that in 2013 the Ministry of the Environment decided not to comply with the first request made at the time by Oceana and the Euskadi College of Biologists. But we must also say that the Basque Government has not acted with all the diligence it should in asking the ministry to act. Recently, the Secretary of State for the Environment in office, Mr Hugo Morán, has declared that nine additional marine areas will be protected throughout the Spanish coast by 2024. Well, once again, the space of Ulia-Jaizkibel is not going to appear among those spaces and yet it should be there. In 2013, the Ministry of the Environment argued that the study carried out by Oceana and the College of Biologists was not the best scientific evidence in the field and therefore denied the protection. That is why, in our non-law proposal today, which has been offered to all political groups and which any group could have submitted, what is required is that the Basque Government undertake a study of continuity, a study that ensures, that demonstrates, that there is a continuity between the protected space on earth and the space that is intended to be protected at sea, because such a study, without a doubt, would make things much more difficult for the ministry to deny this request. And therefore, our proposal is as clear as it is simple, that the Basque Government should get to work, that it should carry out a study that would not be difficult for it to do anything and that would, however, unblock this situation, which has been blocked for almost 10 years. And so, little more I have to say, except to ask the groups to support this proposal, which comes from the College of Biologists, which has been presented to all the groups and which any of the groups could have presented on their behalf; we have done so EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, but we encourage the rest of the groups to assume it as their own. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u108	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u109	Yes, hello, good noon to all. I'm grateful for the co-opership and commitment shown to the Basque Biscologist, Ulia and Jachine to protect the sea zone, and for coming here today with some kind of Niologist group. I'll try to make it short. There seems to be a great hurry, so that some things will not be properly explained. And, indeed, it has given me a good deal of time to understand all this, this long problem in the defence of the Ulias and the Japanese field; but when I have had all the documentation on the table, I think it is very clear, beyond some discourses, only by the ency of governments, but by the nature of the last two governments, there has been at least a platitude of will, a terrible platitude. And the subject is long and has long since come, as I say. In 2010, the Official College of Biologists and the international scientific organization for the protection of ocean seas presented a scientific study explaining why the maritime zone of Ulia-Jaizkibel should have a figure of protection. No one questions the need, even a non-law proposal is approved in this Parliament in 2012; the following year, in 2013, Lakua adopts several decrees on the Natura 2000 Network and, in the decree approving the creation of special conservation areas in the land areas of Ulia and Jaizkibel, it is said that in one year its maritime extension must be approved, and it is also assumed that, once approved, the request will be transferred to Madrid. This is from 2013. Have there been before? No, it's been six years. Did we have the skills to have done this? Yeah, we had skills. The law on natural heritage and state biodiversity, relating to 37.2, makes it very clear: it is possible. He says: "The State General Administration is responsible for the declaration and management of protected natural spaces in the marine environment, except in cases where there is ecological continuity of the marine ecosystem with the protected natural-terrestrial space – the case of Ulia and Jaizkibel – supported by the best scientific evidence; in which case, these functions will belong to the autonomous communities". In other words, the declaration and management of a marine space, if it has ecological continuity with other protected areas, such as Ulia and Jaizkibel, will be competent and will be the responsibility of the autonomous communities. So it's the case. Was it technically justified that this should be done this way? Yes, it was justified. The same answers given by the Directorate of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity to the Official College of Biologists say: "It was precisely in the work for the designation of these areas of special conservation that the desirability and necessity of extending the scope of these spaces to the marine environment was demonstrated. This stretch of the Basque coast forms a continuous of ecological, geological and landscape importance that extends to the marine environment, with a clear relationship and interdependencies between the two cliffs and the sea. "On the other hand, in the pelagic area of this coast is where the highest levels of marine biodiversity occur in Euskal Herria and even in the Eastern Cantabrian." In other words, there was a need to protect the area and there was continuity. El caso es y sigue en los años: En 2014. The Spanish Government accepts by decree several areas in the sea-land, and introduces within Red Nature 2000 several spaces, 39 spaces. And there's no Ulia-Jaelebel seafield. And in 2017, when we talk about all this again, and two weeks ago we heard about it again, we talk about the allocation of new areas, and neither does the area of Ulia and Jaizkibel appear as an area to be protected. In view of this, a number of organizations, including the Official College of Biologists, and many other entities, are once again interested in the subject and here they begin to ask questions; in the answers to these questions – which we also put in Parliament – we discovered something very curious, and it is that, in clear contradiction with the political consensus and with the technical and scientific consensus that existed here, the Basque Government had not asked for the protection of this space before Madrid. I didn't ask for it in 2013. From here, the Official College of Biologists begins to ask questions, and the Directorate of Natural Heritage and Climate Change, after much waiting and after many long ones, and after not responding to many requests for meetings and collaboration, responds that studies are being done. 13 November 2017, various works have been commissioned; 10 January 2019, we are currently continuing to analyze the matter, not referring to what type of studies, who does them, what deadlines it has, etc. The Government is working, as has often been said here. To try to unravel this whole matter, we ask the Director of Natural Heritage and Climate Change to appear, and, far from being clear, he tells us that in Madrid they have been told, in informal meetings, that the study of Oceana, which was supposed to be the scientific basis on which all the above had been approved, is not useful. But they have told you in word; there is no written documentation. They also tell them that, apparently, this is protected through our competences according to 37.2 of the law of natural heritage, because that has little travel, but on this we do not have any written record either. We are told that the requests that had been made since the Basque Government in 2013 had not even been answered – I am talking about the April 2019 appearance, uh – six years later had not even been answered. And it is also clear that the necessary studies are not being carried out, which would answer Madrid to say that we do not have the best scientific evidence available, which is nowhere to be explained in writing why not and what should be. And in fact, and I quote from the session log, in the words of Aitor Zulueta, Director of Heritage Natural and Climate Change "A new land-sea continuity study of the marine space off the coasts of the Ulia-Jaizkibel ZEC would be needed, which we would probably extend to the Txingudi ZEPA." That is to say, in 2019, after all these years, the director of Natural Heritage tells us that a new study is needed, that it should be the scientific basis on which to go and fight, whether the Ministry in Madrid declared this area as a ZEPA nut, or whether it extended protection to the existing ZEPA in Ulia and Jaizkibel. Faced with this, as it could not be otherwise and in collaboration with the Official College of Biologists, we propose in our proposal today that such studies be carried out, that six months be given to the Government, so that such studies that are not being carried out be carried out. And here is the surprise that, when this seemed to be the most logical thing in the world, we find ourselves with an amendment from the parties that support the government, which are simply and simply a mockery. A mockery, I understand, that the Official College of Biologists, the opposition, and all the trajectory that has taken so far on this issue. Because, what does the amendment you have brought say? He says that "the Basque Government is urged to take the necessary actions before the General Administration of the State for the protection of the area", without specifying what these actions are, when the director of Natural Heritage has already said that what needs to be done is a new study, and yet it is not proposed that a study be carried out; what is proposed is, in point two, that the corresponding study be done by the Ministry of Ecological Transition. And I say: this, in addition to being almost Martian, this proposal, is a demise of functions in every rule. It is a matter on which we have exclusive competence, Article 10, Statute of Autonomy, point 16: "scientific and technical research in coordination with the State". But not only that, but it is a competition that, in the marine sphere, has been transferred since 1981, which is in the hands of AZTI marine scientific research. How is it possible that this Government is saying that it is the Ministry of Ecological Transition that does the work? How is it possible that this Government does not respond to the need we have to implement, the possibility that we have, by competence and by legislation, both our own and our State, to extend the area of protection to the marine sphere of the special conservation areas of Ulia and Jaizkibel? It's not understood anywhere. I believe that you, rather, should do what you should do is to come down and say that, beyond all the good words and no good action that there is in this whole matter of the protection of the maritime zone of Ulia and Jaizkibel, what really drives you not to have done any effective work to protect all this space, when there is a scientific and political consensus since the year 2010 minimum, and 2012 confirmed, and let us continue in the same situation, and now the Government of Spain tells us that, in this period until 2024, you will proceed to declare another number of new zones, in which neither will this zone be collected. You must come down and respond to see why you really don't want the maritime space of Ulia and Jaizkibel to be protected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u110	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u111	Thank you, President, and good afternoon. My commitment was to try to be brief; but, really, it's going to be a little complicated, because there's a lot to say. To start with the end. Down, down to the rostrum; but, Mr. Otero, I will say what you think, and it seems to me that reality here can be one or many, depending on the eyes with which we look. Because you are concealing information, which you know, to interpret what interests you according to the vote you seek, which is what we are recently beginning to get used to in this rostrum. No mockery, no surprise either, because you knew perfectly well what we were going to say in this rostrum. And mock, forgive, for disagreeing with what you propose, it is not a mockery to which the initiative brings today. So, that's for starters. And second. You bring here, one day yes and another, respect for the competences of the Basque people against that Spanish state that does not allow us to develop as a people, when you are interested. When you're interested, you grab the skills and you're from the Basques and the Basques and, when you're not interested, you accuse who truly... You know perfectly well that this is a competence problem and who can develop it. And by the way, you've been very worried about Ulia-Jaizkibel since 2012, but we're in 2019. Worried, I don't know, but a little late seems the initiative is coming. And having said this, as I have come down, I will explain to you, because it seems that in that appearance I do not know whether you did not hear everything or did not want to understand what the rapporteur at that time wanted to explain. As the proposal you have brought about on this matter, which was already discussed that day, April 1, in which the dean of the Euskadi Official College of Biologists also appeared, as you have said. There, all the actions that had been carried out before the ministry, which is now the Ecological Transition, competent in the matter, were described in detail in order to obtain that better protection, which not only concerns you but concerns us all. In the justification of the initiative itself, the channel provided for in the declaration of the ZECs of Ulia and Jaizkibel is set out, proposing the extension of the zones, of the current zones, of special conservation, including the marine sphere. And it points out this fact, as stated in that article that you named (37.2 of Law 42/2007, of Natural Heritage and of Biodiversity), that it is for the General Administration of the State to declare and manage the protected natural spaces in the marine environment, as you have well said, except in those in which there is continuity, such... It already seems that we all agree, because it is knowledge of the law; it is not necessary to interpret it, but to see what it says and it is clear when it is the competence of an autonomous community and when it is the competence of the State. Faced with this approach, we understand that if they review the decrees of designation of the ZECs, the key elements of both spaces have no continuity in the marine space, and here is the explanation of the vote against the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group. In addition, in discussions as you have said with the Ministry, it is transferred to the Basque Government that the report submitted by Oceana does not meet the conditions they expect, and that a new report would be formally and in writing requested. And, in this case, it is pointed out that it will be the Spanish Institute of Oceanography itself that prepares the report. And that is not to make a mockery of the above, but to understand that it does not meet the conditions that were intended and that is why another report is requested. The Directorate of Natural Heritage and Climate Change carries out a new formal procedure in May to request the General Directorate of Sustainability of the Coast and the Sea to rule on the requests made in 2013, a procedure that is necessary in order to be able to continue; because, if there is no such pronouncement, we cannot continue. This time, through the office of the Director of Natural Heritage and the Director General of Ecological Sustainability of the Coast and Sea of the Ministry itself, what is to be done and requested is done, and is waiting. That happened in May, that didn't happen in 2013, those years that you've told us about. May 2019. Five months have passed. The response has been received by maintaining the criteria set out by the ministry so far, so it has been contacted with the Spanish Institute of Oceanography to launch the continuity study. And, right now, you're waiting for the answer. It cannot therefore be said that no progress has been made and nothing has been done, but that we are still in the process and we are in the process today. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the declaration of new marine spaces in Natura 2000 by the General Administration of the State is attached to the development of the Life Intermares programme, which coordinates – I have lost myself; wait a moment –... coordinating the Biodiversity Foundation and in which AZTI has entered, as representative of the Basque Autonomous Community. The Basque Government is therefore concerned and busy on this issue and AZTI is a party. In the forecasts of this project is the declaration of a new area called Capbreton, located opposite the coast of Biscay and the Gipuzcoana, but that would not give continuity to Ulia and Jaizkibel. So, we're coming around and around. But you, Mr. Otero – before Mrs. Urrea said that Mr. Díez laughed a lot, and you too are laughing a lot – can turn around and turn around on this subject. And it is clear that in Euskadi we may be concerned about the protection of the area; but, if there is no continuity, the ministry has competence, and then that is where we are, and a new study has already been commissioned. With regard to the aforementioned document, Protection of the marine space of Ulia and Jaizkibel. A scientific, social and institutional bet With regard to the statement – which I believe is subjective – that no impetus or firm commitment is appreciated to carry out a study of the continuity of the marine environment of Ulia and Jaizkibel by the Government, or the planned deadline, in the light of all that we have said, it is clear that we want to bring this issue to a successful conclusion, always within the framework of the law and respect for the competences established, as it cannot be otherwise. If our objective is the protection of the marine area, demonstrating the continuity of terrestrial-sea ecosystems has an unlikely course, so the declaration of a marine space in Natura 2000 by the Basque Government, in the Jaizkibel and Ulia area, results – we believe – in an ineffective effort. And by explaining to you your amendment quickly, because you understood that ours did not come to account and that it did not meet the main objective of the initiative, I will tell you that your point one, yours and that of Mr Becerra, raised the elaboration of a study, such... The study must be prepared by the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, as I have told you and as it has been established by the ministry in reply, and the institute has already been urged to carry it out. The study carried out by the Basque Government, presumably, would not be taken into account by the ministry, because it understands that it is itself competent. So, you've already asked the national institute, as I told you, to do it. That is the reality and the proposed path, the one you do, leads nowhere. The second point they raised was a study within six months; obviously, yes, responding to the previous... You will understand that this point we do not see. And on the third point, you were talking about decisively pushing this path, making use of a study before the State Administration, which is the third one you raised. And we understand that the way of conducting the study has already been closed to us, and that this way is also endorsed by the studies submitted earlier. We therefore share the need for protection of the area, and we are concerned about all the species that Mr Becerra has told us about. We can agree that it is necessary to do so, but what is clear is that the law is to comply with it in this matter and in everyone. And the skills are to bring them to this rostrum on this issue and everyone. And in this case, it is clear when it is the competence of the Autonomous Community and when it is the competence of the State. And we can go on and on, but the ministry has responded to what the Basque Government has said, and has already commissioned a study that understands that responds to the needs you pose, that you believe that the Basque Government has to do it and that the ministry understands that they are the competent ones. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u112	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman and ladies, welcome and good noon. For saying hard words here, one reading will not be more truthful than the other. They're reading. And in the sum of what Miss Rojo did, the jurisdiction is clear. And if the reading was sufficiently objective, we'd all understand it's a matter of jurisdiction. And here he has been mockingly speaking about respect, I think it's too harsh, and the government is like... I'm not going to go through the trajectory again, but obviously it's done, things are done, but it's a matter of right. This summarizes all the course of this matter or demand. And between the explanations given by the Director of Nature Ondarie and the climate of the committee with the deputy chief, he used the "baile de compencias," and so we dance, but not in the rhythm we wish, but in the rhythm that we are engaged in from Madrid, which still brings the effect. And the procedures which ought to be made for the support of the sea-land are about to be completed, but they are about to do, not because they are here in ours, but because, as I must say, we have no jurisdiction here, but we want them to have it, and that is reality. And we can work with the rhythm of the rhythm, or, as happens to us, we have a long career of risks ahead of us. Long as well? Okay. With the substance of the request? Okay. But even where our jurisdiction is, at least we have it. The demand, it is true, has been going round through 2010, and during that long period there have been several governments in Madrid, and neither of them have ever carried on that demand or measure. And today there was a band of legal protection in Madrid, knowing that the jurisdiction was there, why shouldn't it be measured? They come, knowing that we have no jurisdiction, to ask for it. It's all very logical. But, well, we don't wonder too much, and we are used to such things, and, as we call them, 'Poes una más para colción'. And this competition does not advance to such a complexity; there are others which are more complicated than we agree in halberds, but it is not in our hands. And when the work is mentioned, the work is necessary, especially among different administrations, but the rhythm, the will, and the priority are different, then these results come. Where's Kulpa? Some say it there, others here; but at last we know where it is, and even Mrs. Rojo has made it clear. The Cantabrian Sea is one of the marine areas that has the least protection and it seems logical to protect it, as these measures are never too much and are not confronted with economic activity. On the contrary, by protecting the area, marine life is being protected, making it possible for greater natural resources to exist. The creation of a marine ecological corridor and the inclusion of the Jaizkibel-Ulia marine area, as experts have said, would provide a very important connection between protected areas, which would add continuity, together with existing land protection. However, demonstrating this continuity of land-sea ecosystems, as has already been said, has difficulties, and the routes that have been taken have a limited route, open routes with the General Administration of the State, and, from the Department of Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, it is considered that an effective measure can be the designation by the General Administration of the State of the Jaizkibel-Ulia area as marine ZEPA. It would depend on the General Administration of the State itself, but with protection, what we consider a great step forward. I won't delay because I said we agree with the fund of action and I think that's clear. But the correction of the whole of us is directed to the place where the right is, and you, once in a while, ask for measures, accounts, and initiatives, which, in this case, is not the way. We can talk, we can discuss, and we can appreciate it; but please ask me, and ask me, if you have the right to it, and you know where it is. I'm afraid we're still going to be around, and I think we all want to protect Jaequibel-Ulia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. It's the team turn that hasn't run any corrections. The popular group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u115	Thank you, Madam President. The story has been made of what was the beginning and how we arrived until 2013; until then, everything was agreement and agreement, and 2013 is the year in which things begin to take different paths, and it is when the Gipuzkoa Diputation sends a report to the ministry, saying that they recognize or place this enclave in its order or in its decree of qualification as special protection zones, but that the Basque Government does not demand it. And that's when you start separating reality; or what was an agreement begins to take different paths. All recognize that there is an interest and need for protection in this area, and in the 2013 document of Objectives and Measures for the Designation of Special Conservation Areas "The Basque Government and the General Administration of the State, each in its marine sphere [...], shall promote the necessary procedures for Ulia-Jaizkibel, on the basis of the important values of biodiversity it possesses, with an appropriate figure of protection approved and declared within a period of not more than one year". 2013. It is this measure that is set out in this document. Well, in spite of all these movements and agreements that seemed to indicate, as I was telling them, that everything was going on and everything was coordinated, there's a stop. In 2016, the Operational Strategic Plan of the Basque Eurocity Bayona-San Sebastián. Already in its proposals, the shared view of the coast is also reflected and taken up. Therefore, this document also supports the interest. The Gipuzkoa Diputation, as they were told by that allegation at the time. And it is the Basque Government that takes a step or puts the brake on the initiative. The truth is that many things are surprising, and one wonders what difficulties there are for the department to communicate or for the department not to contact the College of Biologists of Euskadi, who does not tell them what has happened from 2013 to 2018. He has not told them, he has not contacted them at all; they have approached the department, and the department has closed the door to them. Six years with a break to those who started this procedure and did the study with Oceana; requests for pending meetings, which have no written response, with the ministry; who have conversations, says the Government and that's what the Heritage Director told us; who have been talking for five years or six, but there are no documents. There are no documents that this report is not considered optimal; there are no documents why that, this protection space has not been included; there is a meeting in 2018 with the Sub-Directorate for the Protection of the Sea, which addresses the possible research areas of the new Indemares project, which can be included Ulia-Jaizkibel within the entire corridor; it seems that Oceana's report, as I told you, in unofficial conversations, will not be considered as better scientific evidence. The director told us – all said unofficially, but what the director of Heritage did tell us is what he puts at the first point of the initiative – that the resolution of the file can come by the designation, by the General Administration of the State, of the Jaizkibel-Ulia area as marine ZEPA, circumstance – this was a proposal – that would leave its administration in the hands of the General Administration of the State, but that it established a protection regime for the area; that is, they were going to protect it well, but we were not going to be managers, right?, it was not going to be the Autonomous Community. And then another question was that you can do by joining the ZEC Ulia-Jaizkibel by land and sea, and then we could be the managers, and that's where we are. Then, here, the initiative that has been taken, which has been presented, the College of Biologists, is exactly what it says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to address the elaboration of a study of the land-sea continuity of the marine space located off the coast of Ulia and Jaizkibel, according to the best scientific evidence that supports the extension of such special areas protection towards the marine space, as provided for in article 37.2 of Law 42/ 2007 on Natural Heritage of Biodiversity". This point coincides exactly with what the Heritage Director said in April this year, and you are going to vote against it. And I'd like to know why, because I don't understand anything at all. And secondly, if we have full competence in marine research, which is the competence of this Autonomous Community, why is it that we do not have the Official College of Biologists in Euskadi, who are people who have been working very hard on this and who should be part of this research? And I wonder why the Basque Government excludes them from participating in this investigation, in the elaboration of the next study, because it had to be a demand of the Basque Government with the ministry to incorporate the Basque part into the investigation, and I wonder what the problem is for the Official College of Biologists to be in that study, because, and our competence, where is it left? Does the ministry tell us who has to do the study? What about our competition? How does the government defend our competence? Have we made an assignment to the Ministry of Marine Research Competition? Why, then, do we only take the criterion that the ministry tells us and do not have our own criterion in this matter? That's just the thing. I therefore believe that our group is going to vote for the proposed law presented by the College of Biologists, and that it is Bildu and Elkarrekin We can take it into consideration to bring it to this House; but, of course, there are many issues that we do not understand and there is a rather dark part that I believe are not being clear or transparent. And I'm concerned that you don't get to Euskadi's Official College of Biologists, and you explain and give them the data, because they're the drivers that we're here today and that 2010 was the agreement of this House. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Government has a lot to do here and a lot to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u117	Well... I will only take a minute to say that, well, I do understand that the Basque Nationalist Party does not support this non-legislative proposal and that it remains consistent in its view of the environment as an accessory and even despicable one. I understand that you do not want to protect the marine space of Ulia-Jaizkibel, because, when you support the destruction of the land area of Jaizkibel through a shopping center like Zaldunborda, then it would not be very consistent to want to protect the sea piece. But I do not understand, I do not understand, the position of the Socialist Party on this issue. Because in 2011, in February 2011, a transaction was signed by all groups: Basque People, Socialists, Aralar, Ezker Batua, where it was said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the Ministry of the Environment to work together – together; the ministry was not said to work together, but to work together – in order to determine the most appropriate measures and protective figures for this area." The Socialist Party was then in the Basque Government and in the Ministry of the Environment, and today the Socialist Party is again in the Basque Government and in the Ministry of the Environment, and we find that the Secretary of State for the Environment in office declares nine marine reserves, ranging from the Alboran Sea, the Strait of Gibraltar, the Chafarinas, the Mallorca Canal, and even Cape Tinoso, and we do not find, on any account, Ulia-Jaizkibel. We still can't find him! So, what I would like to do is if in 2011 a consensus agreement was signed by all the groups, at least the groups would somehow maintain the coherence with which they signed then and defend, before the Ministry of Environment, that Euskadi has the competence to do this study, that Euskadi can do this study and that this study has to be the basis on which the ministry declares, once and for all, the protection of the Ulia-Jaizkibel marine reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u118	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u119	Thanks again. Madam Red, Judge, not the words, the action of the Government completely discredits all the speech you have just made. And we're going, again, to 2013. In 2013, the department of Ana Oregi, when the ministry in Madrid tells them to give a series of..., well, to give their opinion about the areas to be protected, because they were going to take out, as they later took out in 2014, the new maritime ZECs, what the department of Oregi says is: one, asks to expand, by the Basque Government, the ZEPA from the Urdaibai ria, extending it to the marine sphere that appears in the draft ministerial order. That is, the Basque Government does assume its responsibilities in 2013, which are to extend to the marine sphere the protection zones that are terrestrial and have a continuity. Yes, he does. So you can. You said: it's that the competitions are where they are... No, no, Yes, it can and the government, the Basque government, the previous one, in 2013 does, but it doesn't just do that. He does two more things. It asks to study and evaluate the proposal of Oceana and COBE to expand the ZEC-X Ulia and the ZEC-X Jaizkibel, extending them to the adjacent marine environment. That is to say, it calls on the Basque Government to extend the land-based protection zones, which have continuity and which go to sea. But it is curious; because, while you do this, that you completely invalidate the speech you have made, that you completely invalidate it, because you say that you have no competences – and, here in the previous legislature, the Basque Government talks about expanding, and not the Ministry, which does invalidate what you have said – makes a distinction, which in some cases – it proposes – to create new ICLs, such as the Txingudi-Bidasoa or the head of the Capbreton Canyon, and the head of the Capbreton Canyon is now being considered to be approved in 2024, and yet it says that the proposal must be studied and valued. That is, a lower hierarchy. This is, of course, in response to the Basque Government's request to extend the area of Capbreton, for example, and to study or value other proposals which, of course, the Government of Spain, which is not foolish in this case, because it takes what it is interested in and what it is not interested in leaves it. And it leaves it aside, and there is continuity. And I don't want you to tell me, Mrs. Red, that there's a solution to... that means the area to protect is interrupted. Because the area of the Capbreton cannons that will be protected is far from the coast. In practice, what you are saying, with the speech you have made, is that you do not intend to protect the marine environment of the Ulia and Jaizkibel EEZs. That's what they're actually telling us. And you'll have to explain why. Because here there are two ways to protect this area, two and only two: one corresponds, by competence, to the ministry, to Madrid, and it is the creation of a new maritime ZEPA, in which creation, designation and management would be in their hands. And the other would be the continuity of the conservation of terrestrial areas, which for that we do have competences, as – I think I don't have to read it again – says section 37.2 of the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. With this, I understand that, if there is political momentum here, because no one has said otherwise, it is more, in that we seem to agree, that this area needs protection, what I understand and what we are asking the Basque Government to do is to assume its own competences and explore that path. In order to explore this route of extending the protection of the land area to the maritime area, it obviously has to do a study, which is what is being asked here. It has to do this study, because for a new ZEPA or to study the Capbreton cannons, the National Institute of Oceanography will do the studies it deems appropriate. But, if we want this enlargement, which is possible by competences – I insist once again – we will have to do the studies, which moreover we have the competence attributed to us and AZTI should do that job, and not leave it in the hands of third parties. I'm going to leave it here, beyond the discussion about the probability of these actions: taking one way or another or both. That the two could be taken, as when the area was enlarged – or as when it was attempted to expand – the maritime area of the Urdaibai space, which, in the end, the ministry turned it into a new ZEPA, from Cape Ogoño, that whole area of Urdaibai... All right, there's nothing wrong with us trying to do it because of our powers and then the Madrid government comes and puts a ZEPA on us. The case is that in both ways the protected environment would remain. And you're giving up the first one, and you haven't explained why yet. Because, for the sake of competence, it is not. And anyway and since it hasn't come out, I think that's what's behind it all. Once Mr Telleria said it in a committee: it is wrong to try to use the protection spaces or the protection network to go against a certain infrastructure. Well, I say to you: the same is the opposite; bad thing is to try to play with the protective figures to go in favour of an infrastructure. And we all know, and even though it hasn't come out so far in the debate, here are four magic words, four magic words that are behind all this hunchback, and it's called the outer port of Passages. Exterior Port of Passages... I'd like you to talk a little bit about this, because it seems to me that, in the end, it's what's behind all this refusal to do things the way we have to do them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u120	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u121	Yes, thank you, President, and very briefly. If you want to talk about the Port of Passages, bring in an initiative from the Port of Passages, of which, by the way, this spokesman has spoken, once no, twice no, three times no, and ten... Let's go over the hemerotheque of how speeches start and how speeches end, because in the end... You devote yourselves here to doing lessons of everything, and then you have to be a little careful when you say "let's not use the skills for or against infrastructure, it won't be that...". We have all, at some point, tried to use the skills we have in the Basque Country to protect certain things, Mr Otero. That we all have history, and we've talked about some infrastructure other times, other times quarries, other times other kind of things that, finally. That you have to be very careful when we talk about things and see if, really, we have everything so clean in our house to start splashing into the house of others. So here, all I've come to say is: protection of the area? Yeah. Do I respect skills? Also. And there is one thing that was said the other day in the debate – said my colleague Susana Corcuera – and it is that, when certain groups come to Parliament, often some political groups echo certain initiatives or not. And the collectives have to be told the truth, the truth, and not to create frustration. And don't tell them you can do what you can't do. Because you, others don't, but you know the environmental laws and what happens in the ministry better than I do, even if you rule the PSOE. You know him, because on more than one occasion he has sent me "look, this document" and, thanks to you, I have known him, everything is said in passing. Therefore, you know him perfectly well. So let's tell people the truth. Let us tell him that this report they made is not worth the ministry, and that, oh, surprise! it is the competence of the ministry. So we don't create frustrations; we don't always tell the collectives what they want to hear; we tell them the truth. And you know perfectly well that that's a competitive issue. And Mrs López de Ocariz, to see if you are so demanding or so undemanding always with the ministry, regardless of who rules. Because, of course, sometimes you look more at Madrid or less at Madrid, depending on who rules, and some motion of censure marked this very much in this Parliament. And finally, Mr. Becerra, Mr. Hugo Morán has told the truth. He has appointed a number of areas to protect, and of course he has not put Jaizkibel-Ulia, but I have already explained why not. It has already requested a new report to continue addressing the issue of the protection of the area. It is not that he wanted to say one to the detriment of another; it is that he has said things as they are, with the law and the powers in his hand. And the 2011 initiative said to work together. Of course I do; I still agree to work together. It is that Mr Arriola's department has met not once, two or three; it is working together with the Government of Spain, but always taking into account who the competencies are. Because there are times when you have to go to Madrid to claim this I have to decide, but there are times when things aren't like that. Because if we could always decide here, a lot of things would be different. And, in this case, we've done one more ball of all this, when only the issue is that we want to protect but the skills are where they have to be. Let us wait for the following answers from the ministry; let us wait for what the new report requested from the ministry says, and we will see how, among all, we can protect the area. But respect for competences does, but always.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u122	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u123	I don't know, do you hear me? Well, I wasn't going to intervene, but the truth is that since it's clear that the best defense is a good attack, telling half truths, even – I would say – half lies, manipulating, twisting, accusing things that aren't... And oh, surprise! Now it turns out that the People's Party has a much greater trajectory than ours, than that of the Basque Nationalist Party, on environmental issues; it has greater credibility... When you were in Madrid, what happened to this topic? I have said it and I repeat it: competence issue. And we can give it a thousand laps; we can keep it at the roundabout, but where's the competition? And as much as you manipulate and say you can, you can't. And the Basque Government has come as far as it can, and it will continue on that path. But the competition isn't here. And, well, that's the truth, that's the interpretation, the only interpretation that can be, and, of course, with the budgets and with the budget debate, we will see to what extent we attach importance to the environment, to its defence and to its respect, yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Basque Popular, doesn't he have to talk? After discussion, we'll vote with EH and together the original text of the proposition as the Podemos did. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at the meeting, 74; supporters, 37; opponents 37; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u125	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at the meeting, 74; supporters, 37; opponents 37; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-31.u126	It's a draw, so we'll leave a draw for the next integer meeting. I'll read you an institutional statement next. Institutional expression on the present state of Chile: "To the thread of the political and social instability that lives in Chile these weeks, it is necessary to take an attitude on the Basque Legal. Many Basques live in Chile from decades ago, and their contribution and influence are important. "At present, it is with anxiety that many of the people have no attachment to their institutions and authorities. The latest news shows that the situation is very serious, because many people have been killed, wounded, or arrested. It has been declared that by defending their financial and lawful social purposes those who are revealed in the street have been raped and persecuted. "Citizen discontent is expressed in different demands of an economic and social nature. The Basque Parliament, in view of this situation, wants to show its rejection of violence, its demand for monitoring and enforcement authorities with guarantees of all human rights, its solidarity with those who are committed to public policies of equality that correct the abysmal differences and improve the quality of life of the majority of the population. "The Basque Parliament is committed to peaceful and serene dialogue, to the negotiation and broad agreement between the parties to resolve this worrying situation and to solidarity with those who suffer the most, sending a special greeting to the important and numerous community of Basques and Basques who reside there." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and forty-seven.
