ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u0	Let's start the entire meeting. Before we begin, I must say that the fifth point has been retired, and in the fifth place the fourteenth point will be discussed. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, a distant confession made by the U.S. E.A. P.S.A. P.I.S.A.E. 2019." Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u1	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Zupiria, today I'm here to ask you about Scotland 2019. Euskadi, go out into the world, go out into the open! And to go out into the Place of the World, it's a strategy: Basque Country Strategy. Yes, it's true that when we talk about the Basque Country strategy we're talking about an economic, industrial, tourist approach, but our people have something more to offer, what else they have to bring into the world, publish, publish, and internationalize. For example, our culture, our language and our sport. And, by the simple opinion of our team, it was fully invented in the last strategic thought when it was decided to give its place to culture in the international circle. And we have an effective tool for this: Couple of Houses of Basque Institute. And her To the point of 2017-2020 plan, Scotland has been targeted for this year. Scotland has certain features beyond culture, which make it interesting and strategic for a strategy such as Basque Country, but especially for us as it belongs to culture and culture, a country where festivals and performances, which are so large in the world. And offering a stage like this to our artists and our creators, to the professional arts, to music or to the cinema, while the others seem to us very suitable, interesting, and unique. It's an excellent opportunity for intercrossing meditations and interviews to promote unions. And as it is an excellent opportunity, so it is a challenge. And that challenge came to him with the "Schoice 2019" program, through a word in the wide programming that will take place until October after January. On account of all this context, we would like to make use of today, Mr. Chief, if it is possible to ask, if it is possible, and if it pleases you, a brief estimate of the present, but above all, of which, as a question, we shall know or see the following steps in the near future. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u2	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u3	Mr. President, members of the legislature, president, chief officers. Ours is a small country, but we have always had opportunity and ambition to open to the world and to live outside. Even today our society lives looking into the world, and the international eucalyptus is a popular challenge that has been accepted as the purpose of the Eukozoa. To get rid of that initiative in the country, the Red Muncho chose two furrows. On the one hand, a shared strategy, Euskazaz Basque Country 2020 international strategy, and on the other, the neighborhood, encouraging a collaboration between the public and private agents of different districts. It's the global strategy that's been exploited by EukMUY looking out, and it's her goal to appear as a village in front of the world. And in that full view, together with international relations, with culture, industry, and economy, or with tourism, it's important for you and your languages to come to pass. In thisong international strategy, Europe is the main goal, and in Europe, between the lands of Europe, Scotland is chosen and haunted by the eye. The axis of culture has also provided us with a special opportunity to approach Scotland. And we've worked out the area of culture as the important basis of relationships in another way that we can have with this country. In this sense, they paid a visit to Scotland, the principal secretary of the Foreign Relations of the President of the Presidents, and the director of the Homes of the Homes, in order to develop relations between the two countries, as formerly the head physician of Economic Development did in his field. From the point of view of culture, it is of special importance that in Europe Scots are referred to its culture periods of culture throughout Europe, and by which they offer the opportunity of reaching the rangers and contractors of all Europe. The taking of Scotland's goal made it possible as the first step, the representative and programmen of the Scotland festivals are coming to make the choice of our artists. Now the Scotland Goes Basque program has started from the beginning of the year. The first window was opened last January by the Celtic Connections of Glasgow, where the makers and interpreters of euscal were programmed under Basque Music. The next section is about the movie. The third act will be in August, the Edinburgh Festival, the dance, the Fringe and Dance Base program. And fourthly, in August itself, Edinburgh International Book will be in the French literature, Iban Zakala, the Rock Cano, Mi's Good-bye Meabe, Uxue Alba, and Bernard Haugacal, by the performances and initiatives which the author of Scotland will have with so many creative authors. The programmes we'll work together with Scotland University will remain for autumn. We've done this team of homes through high school. I mentioned before that the second axis of the outer strategy is the district. This activity of Scotland has been developed in the neighbourhood by the several Houses of Houses to converse with the founders of Basque culture, known by their wants, and intended to bring their creation into the world. This neighbourhood has given the greatest strength to the initiative, and the founders of euscals have seen their work as a unique opportunity to appear before the world. Thank you for letting us know this project for showing it in front of this meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the political state of the elections which are made by the Congress of the World of Maddalens, the United States of the Union." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u5	Mrs. President, thank you. Mr. Zupiria has treated of Scotland and Scotland has left us any other lesson in the last few days. Good morning, Mr. President, and good morning to all the rest. In the light of the results of Sunday elections, I am sometimes trying to reflect and share in them in the dark. "Una part de la respuesta a la pregunta de hoy la rectibimos el martes a traves del señor Erkoeka, que nos dijo que ciudad de Araba, Biscaia ypue eliciones harendo subierno su ya alza." We have seen in the last few days a certain number of things which appear outside the crowd of independence, and some have considered it as a constitutionalist party, and we shall not deny that it gives room for reflection. I would not like to believe that for you "it is not no", knowing that the immobilism of the Spanish system is irresponsible and undemocratic. These days I remembered a micro tale of Augustus Monterrus Gatemala, a famous micro tale. Said: "Cando despertó, el dinosauro todavía statusa allí." And it seems to me that he agrees well in this state of life which has not changed the commercial business of Spain. In a well-developed ultra-organized white-and-white arrangement, which still appears to be completely included, some who wish to sell to us that we are obliged to thank the victory of the Socialist Party, but the trading problem is there, and there are also the ultra-feeding parts on the right side. So the dinosaur's in there, obviously. And it continues to be held by a September macro trial, several European candidates have been introduced, including President Puigdemont's, and in the Spanish courts, well, well, well, well, well, if the suffrages are suspended by the Independency of Catalonia. To tell you the truth, yo, la verdad, no salgo de mi asombro con Spalia. Siempre me asombran. We believe that in these elections the Basque people and the Basque Society have insisted that they resist involutation. That's our reading. And he's asked for more country. If it hadn't been for the Basque Country and Catalonia, self-criticism would have triumphed in Spain, so that we, at the Basque Country, are glad to have done what we've done. El PSOE no man was proud, never was. It wasn't about transfers, it wasn't about federalism, you know, even look at multinationality. By the way, if it has not the right of self-determination, which is of no value, we think is pure literature. And in this state, we believe that he lives very much, and that he lives very much, the document of principles and principles, which you have left half in the drawer of this election, received by the majority of the legislature, seems to us the only means of looking at this dinosaur in front of him and from equal to equal. How do you see the situation, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Irriart, as you say, you did the question before the elections. To tell you the truth, we don't know what kind of composition of Spanish government is to be, at least, from I don't know, in Aranka, Biska, and from Gipuzia. NORMALEuskadin. We don't know what the new political scene will be, or at least I don't know. That's an important attitude in front of the stage. And it seems strange to me that what you said here was heard on the campaign. I must confess, Madam Irart, that your attitude is new. Here, many times as I've said, word for word, word for dialogue, negotiation and agreement, you've proposed the formula in the state. And I agree, Mrs. Iriart. Yes, it seems to me that applying the same formula here to Madrid would be good too. Even the flexibility you propose to Spain. By this way, we shall find better answers here and there to answer the demands of the citizens. After all, that's the goal that brings us together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u9	Well, Mr. Urkullu, "dialog, negotiation and agreement," adhesium adhesium adhesium. And you don't know what stage you can see in Spain? Well, look, he reminds me a little about President Sanz's soots. I think that in any case, you have to keep looking at the dinosaur.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart, no Adhesion And if we combine these two conclusions, we will find the way to a new political culture. This road, we propose to make Euskadin play too, I assure you. I don't know what the stage will be, I insist. We have municipal, outlying and European, autonomous elections ahead in some communities. The representation map is the one that has changed. The election result could make a government in the state possible, but it remains to be seen how. The outcome of Sunday should make it possible for a time of dialogue, negotiation and agreement to face political solutions in the State, and that is what you propose. The only thing I can suggest to you is that you do not make your political attitude here conditional on the response you get in Madrid, that Madrid is not an excuse not to reach agreements here in Euskadi. Here the door "dialogue, negotiation and agreement" has it open in pairs, let us no longer waste time and take a step forward, Mrs Iriarte. It is not necessary to wait to see whether or not the door opens in Madrid, the option is "dialogue, negotiation and agreement", starting with Euskadi and with the look placed in relation to the State. Look, Mrs. Irriart, this law's been in 130 weeks. You've voted 130 times together with the Popular Party. You've done it every week, even yesterday, and you can change that attitude, if it's always been the cause of that attitude. You have a choice if you really have any will to go on the way of the agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u13	And as you know, in this legislature, you've had a lot more chance than in Spain. So, go ahead, the door's open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, members of the Podemos team together to the president, to the political, economic, and social position of the Basque State." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u15	Mr. President, good morning. A lot has happened since the last check session, which do you appreciate about the political, economic, social situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u16	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Martínez, it's only four weeks since the last meeting and in answer to your question in a sentence: He's still on his way through the Euskata. We are still confronting difficulties, difficulties, necessity, and obstacles, and, as has been said, we are advancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u19	As a matter of fact, Mr. Urkullu, I did not expect any other answer from you: "Everything is all right; we go on in the same line... "I don't know. But I think we have to bring some things into memory that have been passed this last month, without a check, and which give us a lot of information about the situation of the Basques. At the beginning of April, Elkargi states that Basque companies are reluctant to new investments, mainly because of the uncertainties of the international economy, the same for which we show our concern in our last question, and which you sent out, above. More or less at the same time, we also knew that a British investment fund had become Euskaltel's majority shareholder, with doubts and uncertainties about the future of a company whose business model was based on the construction of its own line with public money. In the course of these weeks we've learned about the EPA's data and also about the Basques who leave negative data: The people who are unemployed are raised, and the employments they create are founded in the sector of services, the employment of women, the service of service. That is to say, the perfect formula of the legislator: The host goes up, the industry goes down, and the employment does not reach the young people. But another data too: 50% in unemployment are searching for jobs for more than one year, and the Basque economy does not give an answer, does not provide jobs. Your government still don't plan to protect these people? I think you could answer this question with all the macroeconomic data, with the indicators that you have probably prepared, but the reality is that I don't think you have any plans, either to strengthen or to make our productive fabric evolve, or to generate jobs of quality and added value; or you have a plan to consolidate the protection that institutions should give to people in times of crisis. And believe me, Mr Urkullu, that in the face of the obvious risks of deceleration – and here I quote the words of Aitor Esteban on April 16, in the middle of the campaign – what your government should be doing is preparing Basque society for what can come. It's obvious that the protection of your industrial policies and your corporations is a failure and that there's a low-down leader, and that you're condemning yourself to living from the Turkish Escal economics, and that you're doomed to live from service. And therefore, you are condemning the Basque social majority to live in precariousness. And against this backdrop, as an opposition, we cannot be silent; we are obliged to point out that we are facing a country challenge: how to boost and protect our productive fabric and strengthen it and how to design a better social protection system in which no one stays behind if they are wrong. And that is why I also want to remind you, Mr Lehendakari, that on 28 April one thing has become clear: Basque society has voted mostly progressive choices and any agreement you have with the opposition must start from there, from a shift in its policies to the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u20	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez, would my answer be known? Of course I do. the question is eternal, and the discourse is eternal. No doubt economic and social is better, Mr Martínnez. I think it's all right for you to read a few headlines and reflect here, but go to the point, as well as you have the facts. As you confessed here yesterday, yesterday you confessed that the situation which you made yesterday was better, and you yourself confessed it to you yesterday. I think the political situation is even better than last month. After Sunday elections, new positive options have been made to promote the new agreement, and I have the will to do so, Mr Martínnez. I don't know whether you have it or not, but I have the will to do it. See, in these four weeks the evolution of the economy and employment has been positive: growth of 2.2% and recovery, recovery, industry; employment is created and unemployment is approaching the 10% target. And I hope that, despite the ups and downs, we will continue the trend, Mr Martínez. The Joint Commission has met and the transfer of AP-68 has materialized; we have a timetable and a transfer plan. After the elections, this institutional commitment of the Spanish Government to recognized self-government is more valuable. On the other hand, the study that places Euskadi at the head of the state in the ranking of educational excellence developed by the Association of Professionals for Ethics has been published. I will add another among the things that have happened this month: the election result – which I do not know if you have done the full reading, Mr Martínez, or whether you apply the reading to what is your opposition attitude here, together with the People's Party. In any case, the election result, Mr Martínez, in Euskadi has been clear. And some predictions projected shadows of concern about our self-government and built it in the last decades, but this society wants to keep moving forward and is not willing to back down. The issue is no longer the evolution of these last four weeks, but what we can do in the coming months and years. And the question is what learning we draw for the next future from what just happened this Sunday, Mr Martínez. I have taken note of what you have declared in campaign for a possible joint action between Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu and the Basque Socialist Party for the future. You also take note of our present and repeated readiness to reach agreements on issues which I have tabled in this very rostrum, agreements which, on the other hand, we have also reached, and I do not insist, on accession, but on negotiations with the will of all parties. Look, the agenda of agreements for growth, employment and well-being is open: budget guidelines; employment and reactivation plan; support for entrepreneurs; Lanbide; dual training; Basque Industry 4.0; Internationalization Agency; digital agenda, technology parks strategy; Science, Technology and Innovation plan; Environment 2020 programme; Fiscal fraud plan; socio-health strategy; Basque Pact for the Family and Children; income guarantee income; wage gap strategy; analysis of tax reform... If you want to join and join, you have the opportunity to do so; if, according to you, we can be able to understand ourselves in Madrid, I don't know why here, in Euskadi – the most cohesive, more balanced and supportive community – no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Time is up. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Einduces of the Euscal Socialists, made to the Chief of Environments, Land Planets, and Ho housing departments are in a bad condition about the predictions of the rent to the collective. " Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u23	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Today, which seems to be so rabidly topical the issue of the pacts, we have a question concerning an issue that I believe highlights three issues that go very close to this issue. First, that when there is real will to agree, there is the ability to agree between different, because the Housing Act was passed between three very different political groups of traditions, as were the Basque Socialist Party, EH Bildu and UPyD. Second, that's more important to what than who. And thirdly, there are even governments that in a minority are capable of implementing progressive policies in this country, and I believe that this government is. In this sense, the Housing Act is a perfect basis for implementing progressive policies and, paraphrasing a national media, since it can be said that there is an ordago in Euskadi in reference to social rental, because the Basque Government is going to allocate – it is allocating – 1,119 million euros in the period 2018 to 2020 to promote social rental housing, which is also an evolution in terms of the social trend of the increase in rental housing applications, because of 64,000 housing applicants in Euskadi, 52,000 make a demand for rent. Therefore, following this trend, we are evolving, policies are evolving and, moreover, from Euskadi we are being an example. Why? Because even the Ministry of Development has taken this as an example and has reversed the traditional tendency in recent years to spend more money on the promotion of social housing for sale, to allocate more resources to rental housing. They are therefore policies that allow the emancipation of young people, that allow social cohesion, that allow social progress and, above all, that allow those who have less resources to have opportunities to initiate and consolidate their life plan. And in this sense today I am asking you the question because we are interested in knowing the plans your counselor has on the promotion of housing for the people who have less resources. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, from dinosaur to dinosaur, from the planet of dinosaurs that will preside over Pedro Sánchez, I would like to know what his plans are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Andueza, the forecast and will of our department is to comply with the provisions of the Housing Act. This is what we are doing from the minute one of this legislature, both in other aspects, such as housing for rent, and in all housing policies. When planning protected housing promotions, we have taken into account the mandate to guide them preferably towards renting, first of all, because this is established by the legal framework defined by the 2015 law, with very precise percentages and time horizons, and, moreover, because this is determined by the demand for citizenship. As you mentioned here, of the 67,083 family housing applicants in the Etxebide register, 53,601, 80%, requests a rental housing, and more specifically social rental, because 82.6% of these family units have an income of between 3,000 and 20,000 euros per year, an amount that, as you may suppose, does not give to opt for a purchase housing. Therefore, since the beginning of the current legislature, the department's promotional activity has focused on rented housing. A direction that is clearly reflected in the actions and objectives set out in this area by the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan, as well as in the annual budgets. Of the resources that we are going to have this year, 72 % is spent directly due to rental policies and 22 % corresponds to urban rehabilitation activities. In net terms, apart from rehabilitation, we will devote 92 % of the direct expenditure of the housing programme to rental policies. In this line, of the 1,075 protected dwellings and accommodation facilities subject to the public initiative that is planned to start this year, 950 will be rented. For years now, the houses for sale have completely disappeared from the direct actions of the department, and, in the case of Visesa, since 2016 we have been reorienting its activity, in a decisive way, to the rented house, giving a radical turn to its previous trajectory, so that 55.6% of the houses qualified since then by this public society have been under protected rental regime. It will understand that it is not an easy task to change the direction in an area where projects are extended for a minimum of four years from the availability of the soil until the floors are delivered and, above all, when there are commitments made with municipalities and other entities to be fulfilled. Besides, we don't want to ruin Visesa and cause a serious breach in public accounts. However, I can announce to you that, on your last board of directors, held on 3 April, it was reported that, from June 2020 onwards, Visesa will no longer qualify for new housing promotions for sale; it will be limited to finishing those scheduled for such a rating at this date. In other words, when the Housing Act is five years old, 100% of the floors qualified for promotion from the public initiative will be for rent protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, M. del Carmen López de Ocariz lópez de Muntaine de Muninka, a member of the Popula team, made of Turism, commerce, and the chief physician of the Contsumos, to execute the calculated budget for the performance of 2019." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, Mr. Councillors, Mrs. Counselor, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen. Law 2/2019 of 14 February on urgent budgetary measures for the financial year 2019 provides that "authorisations for expenditure on grants which appear in the general budget of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for 2018 shall be deemed to be extended". This, which is clear, concise and which has no reason to create any doubt, is entailing real torture for the recipients of the departures of their department, especially for traders. Some are told that they will not receive the game, that there is no money, "go looking for calls that fit you in your activity." With others it's a pure bargain, and if you endure the invitation, you still get something more than they initially offered you. However, some of those who have no extendable departure are already being told that they can get something and they sell it on their boards. Summarizing, ladies and gentlemen, "Lakua's souk." On the other hand, they are offering aid for the structure of trade associations from the board of directors. We did not locate such an item in the Budgets, it did not exist in 2018 and we wonder what item will support such contributions and what criteria will govern these contributions. Madam Counsellor, in the written reply he gave us on games that are tested – and which are not – there are three games that are neither one thing nor the other. They're missing; they're not. But that's 2.146,000 euros, 14% of the trade budget. Counselor, they're not ballads. What is this? The Governing Council has also approved an extra income in its department of €3,070,000 for actions without sufficient resources in the extended budget. And counselor, we wonder, what criteria does your department use to execute the extended items for the 2019 financial year? What criteria follow the enlargements of sufficient appropriations and what items are to be allocated?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u29	Gracias, president. Good morning, everyone. In the text of the question that you have registered with my department, Mrs López de Ocariz, you ask us about the criteria for executing the items extended in the 2019 financial year. Well, in this case, we started from a draft budget for the 2019 financial year which had to be withdrawn and extended due to the lack of support from the opposition groups, a project which also had a high level of satisfaction on the part of the sector. What we do from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs is to adapt the budget content, within the framework of the extension, to the programs that the department understands that they must prioritize following the master plans of trade and tourism and the Strategic Plan of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. Therefore, we use the budgetary mechanisms that the extension establishes for us to adapt to the programs and contents of the department. And we do it according to our priority axes. That's our criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u31	Counselor, is it so difficult for you to comply with the law? I'm sure you're willing to comply with the law, aren't you? Is it so difficult to implement the spending updates for grants that are nominally allocated in the 2018 budgets? Is that so hard for them? So impossible? They are perfectly identified, and the dossier must remain in the same systematic as in 2018. There are no criteria. It's the take and if, the deal, trick, trick, deal. Is that your management? Why wasn't what it was worth today worth? Why couldn't what yesterday be offered, today? Why didn't what was offered yesterday, today? Counselor, there is no criterion; there is a deal and trick. This looks, as I told you, like a souk. It is quite humiliating, for traders especially, their attitude in this management. It's pretty humiliating. They've been told, they've been told. We are told to all groups in this House. Can't you correct that attitude, which does come from behind? Can't it be corrected? I think you can correct it. And, counselor, what do you want to say, that you have an alternative B budget to that of the extension? Hey, where's the transparency? Can we get that B budget? How are you going to execute him? To his will. How are you going to execute him? Look, counselor, what we ask of you is a dignified and respectful treatment for merchants, who make an effort every morning against wind and tide to lift the blind of their business, that the games are destined as approved, which were the fruit of an agreement with the merchants themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u32	Thank you. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u33	Thank you, President. As I explained earlier, Mrs López de Ocariz, the department had a draft budget for 2019 on which the sector showed a high degree of satisfaction, but they had to be withdrawn when the amendment was tabled in its entirety. In this situation, the department has no choice but to adapt budget allocations to the guidelines of the master plans and to the sector-wide strategic plan for trade promotion as far as possible. We therefore continue to work, with the resources at our disposal, on our priority axes: to maintain and improve the level of employment in Basque trade; to seek collaboration between businesses and municipalities; to promote digitisation and access to the online sales platforms of small trade; to boost entrepreneurship in our sectors; to strengthen the strategy of deseasonalisation and decentralization of tourist flows, as well as to promote consumer training among others. You have made mention of the nominatives and amendments that your parliamentary group raised in the 2018 budget, you should also know that what you cannot claim is a 2018 budget, an extension of 2019. But also, yes, I would also like to inform you that the amount of these amendments will be implemented in 2019 as a whole. With this, I do not understand the reasons for this intervention or for being concerned. However, you have put us through a series of written questions asking for details of different specific aspects of the budget and of our policies, which will be answered in due course, so you can have all the information in this regard. However, I must also say that I am surprised by the tone of your speech and the substance of the questions you raise, as there are no reasons for this, as I have explained to you before. The department, and I myself, have since the first day expressed our total willingness to dialogue and to clarify how many doubts and issues may arise, such as the one we are dealing with here today, a provision that I reiterate to you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectation, Eva Lopez de Arriyabe, Saez de Maturuna EHGGGregated to the president, in regard to the extent of disorganisation." Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u35	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, everyone. "EHG" brings dispopulation into this Chamber today. For the past few weeks we have heard clearly what is going on in many parts of the Spanish interior. They've published the problem through the past week's mutations, and they've made it clear how far the prevention of the people in those areas is going. This is the only question which seems to affect the empty Spain, which does not exist, but is not the case. Of course that Spain exists, but it has no vote. We are not here today to talk about Spain, but to talk about the problem we have here. Our responsibility is to seek a horizontal and commercial solution, i.e. to find an integral and transbertal strategy. That's why we're here today. Today, our business in our country is serious, even more serious, Araban, and we cannot forget, because of the most beautiful country development that has been pushed on for the last 40 years. The situation is unsustainable and, I would dare to say, without turning back to many Arab peoples, without forgetting, of course, the more than worrying situation of the peoples of Treviño, who not only face their own decline, but who face the inaction of the Basque administration or administrations and, I would even say, of the Castile and León administration. Treviño is more a burden today than an opportunity for different administrations, and its decline is also our responsibility. Rural areas throughout the autonomous community are rather a burden, but well, they are also the recreation area of those living and working in cities. It has not yet come up with the magic formula, there may not be a magic formula, therefore our question today, to pose a common struggle against depopulation, which is already a reality in many of our peoples. We've got a problem of structure, and it's gradually spreading the country, and the situation gets darker and darker. The population of the country which we suffer, places men in the first and second rank, according to the place where they live, work, or enjoy. We can say that there are first-class people, that there are second-class people, depending on where they live or where they work, and Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to allow even forgetfulness, but much less immobilization. The social gap, but also the economic gap between the rural and urban environment, is more than obvious, so action is becoming more urgent than ever, and measures, I would say, urgent as well. The rural environment today does not offer employment opportunities; there is no work, there is little industry, and we cannot forget the first sector, which is each time having an absolutely less tractor capacity and with great difficulty in maintaining itself. Let us not forget, a first sector that, in fact, is the main manager of the territory, producer of food, also, but, well, which is aimed at a more pressing intensification, with which it increasingly needs fewer people to work in it. We see a terrible future in many farms. Although the traditional and terrible architecture has been preserved, yet they have lost people, animals, and souls within, and in short we are losing character. The same solution for all, indeed, does not serve; every territory, every people, every council, every part of this territory is a world. It is their duty to know each reality and to intervene in concrete actions. The rural development policies we have led, which have led over the past 40 years, have not been effective. It is shown once again that they have not been enough for the first sector, on the one hand, because it would not be as it is, nor for the rural environment in its full dimension, on the other. Rural development policies often directed and evaluated quantitatively, effectively, both in money, in budget, and in returns – which of course have not been expected – but we forget, on the other hand, their qualitative objective, which we would of course have had other consequences. Local development has to be endogenous, it has to come from the peoples, it has to come from the people who live and work there, because otherwise there is nothing to do. Many of the villages of the Arabs and the fields of Gizilla and Gipulia are becoming more and more beautiful, provided by the postal garden, but they are not yet alive; they are empty for a week, and no one is there, besides, Hadad animals, have disappeared forever. Space must be changed, leisure alone is not enough. It's hard to live for a year, but not because it's cold, no, it's hard for people to live because they're country militants. Today I am addressing you, Mr Urkullu, directly, because it seems to us that this is a matter of country and that coordination of all government departments is necessary, but, above all, it is urgent to curb this situation. I would dare say that we have to ruralize ruralize The "euskal hiria" of the future will not make sense without the "euskal herria" – or "euskal lurraldea", as they wish. We think that's the way and, of course, that's where we're going to meet. If all policies leave the city, they leave the streets of the center, from the urban, we can hardly say that they are effective, because the territorial imbalance is evident. Here in Araba is where it is most evident. For giving three specific data: agricultural space is 32%; natural space is 63%, yes, but urban space is only 5%. This is called "territorial imbalance", an imbalance that we have no choice but to deal with. It is essential to compensate for the population imbalances, yes, socio-economic, of course, but, of course, those of services, proposing flexible ratios – I would dare say that rural ratios, if you can say so –, adapted, in subjects such as education, basic services, leisure, but also transport and housing, because without that let's think about looking for work. And I will dare to give an example, because those of us who live every day in rural areas know that living there is very difficult, forming a family is very difficult, working in rural areas is very difficult. But I don't want to be pessimistic. If there is no root in a village, in an area, there is nothing to do; but there is, hardly also. I do not want my speech to be negative today. This is a positive question; it is also proactive, I believe, and, of course, we have brought it with us with the intention of sharing it. Because we understand that the situation at that decline in the Basque countryside must come out of a country pact, it cannot be otherwise, it must go beyond partisans, because if we do not understand that we are not going anywhere. The threats are more than the chances, and the weaknesses more than the strength. There are many and many problems. I want to be positive, but I encounter problems, problems of transportation, problems of access to housing, rent there is practically no; finding or finding affordable housing is very difficult, empty and accessible almost impossible; problems of access to land, one after another, the land is the same, but access is absolutely impossible; problems, too, to go to the doctor, as simple as having doctors around. Yes, we know that there are few inhabitants, that there are few votes in rural areas, but that does not mean that we have to understand that deficit as an investment. Problems also with social services, which will have to be diversified and which will definitely have to be promoted for rural areas to maintain the population. In short, problems generated by the centrality of capitals. They have sold us the rural exodus as something inevitable in this civilization. That has to happen, because many, I understand that those above, prefer stable people, like cattle, in cities, that are well guarded, that are well controlled, better than people moving and working in the rural environment, because, well, it is easier to manage, because giving coordinated and concentrated responses is always easier in stable population groups than in diverse and, above all, dispersed people or villages. Because in the rural environment, in our environment, in nature, everything is, is our past, is our present, but there is also our future and the territory to meet and live, and understand things in another way. Dena dago land-eremuan, gure inguruan, gure sustraitetan heifer, gure iragana, gure oraina eta gure etorkizuna; land-eremua behar dugu, nor ber buruarekin aurkitzeko, heifer, hobeto ezagutzeko eta egindako gauzen konfiantzarekin bizitzeko. I'm finishing up. Let us not put more grey in the green, I think we have enough; let us not fill it with asphalt and concrete, because that is not development. Let us let the grass grow, let us manage the territory as it is, as an opportunity, as a resource to care for and to live in. We understand that we must put in place means, they will not be easy, but we must make it attractive to live in rural areas and that is not easy. I would ask Mr Lehendakari which country he sees in 20 or 30 years' time – I would like to know this – and, of course, what measures, not so much have been taken, but what will be taken to deal with this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u36	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Lopez de La Rochelle, we've probably agreed to keep the agricultural fields and the lyrical zone active. The connection between the first sector and the country and the fishing environment is fundamental. We will agree that in our countries we must continue to improve the understructions of communications, the public service of the housing, the conditions of life in useful health and education, and even in the economic establishment, as the structureist element which ensures those areas to the environmental conditions of life. You will admit, however, that the connection between the country and the fishing environment is long and that the conditions of life in our countries have improved during the last decades. Support for the rural environment in Euskadi is evidence for decades and it is obvious that living conditions have improved. You have referred to the demonstrations to demand urgent actions in which you have called "Empty Spain", and you give the impression that you have awakened a need for emulation with Euskadi, in some way. I say this to you routinely, I say it to you clearly: you can't equate situations that have nothing to do with it. We have a country with a density rate in the European average. Euskadi is a community listed as "conurbation" or "urbanized area" as a whole. That is why, perhaps, as you mentioned, it is the concept of "euskal hiria". This is the reality, although, in fact, the rural environment has problems – we do not hide it – problems of economic development and birth. – also present in urban areas. We are aware of the needs in the fields of education, health, housing, infrastructure, economic promotion and rural development. We have to keep getting better. But you will accept that our problems are not similar to those of the rural environment and areas depopulated in the state that have somehow motivated the justification, also in the interpellation, in the previous intervention, with this striking mimeticism that I have denounced. So, in my opinion, this is really striking: In Spain, expressions and demonstrations have been arranged to demand that Spain should be treated with necessity, and that has made it necessary in you to equalize the situation of the Basques, and you wanted to bring it to our own country. I'll make it clear to you, anyway: that these two states have nothing to do with it. We don't agree with you in this Chamber or with the catastrophic view you wanted or theormist, although you want to be effective, and I'm finally taking part in your involvement. We do not agree with you, however, or I do not agree with you with that volcanic image of dispersal and emptying our countries. I believe that Euskadin is not a country and a suburban confession. In the first place, the density of the Basque population exceeds the Spanish State, triples. We have 300 inhabitants for every square Eukadin mile, and in Spain only 92. It is because of the density of the population that we can compare with the countries which occupy most of the inhabitants of Europe. We are speaking in general of the region which is quite equal to a submarine zone, and which, as I have said, we are speaking of the city of Euskal. "Euskal hiria" is not, in fact, understood without its connection with the rural environment and the fishing world; it is not understood without the improvement of the living conditions of our peoples in infrastructures of communication, housing, health or education. And I will therefore refer to the actions and responses that we are giving, starting with the field of economic development. Improvement of telecommunications infrastructure in rural and coastal areas. In collaboration with the outlaws, high-speed broadband reaches all the small villages of the three territories. The investment is 6.6 million euros and Euskadi is at the head of the state in broadband deployment. In Araba, by citing the territory you set as an example, broadband is being deployed in 445 population cores, of which 280 are fiber optics. We have integrated rural and coastal areas into sectoral development plans: rural trade plan, social services, cultural promotion, rural transport, housing plan or education in rural areas... The rural entrepreneurship plan, the impetus for mountain areas from the European Euromontan network, is being developed. The collaboration with the World Rural Forum, which is internationally projecting the rural environment and Basque family farming, is noteworthy. We have expanded the development instruments of enterprises in the primary sector, enhancing financial instruments – vouchers, loans and equity. This project is linked to the European ERDF funds. We have expanded the financial tool Sendotu, with the aim of facilitating investment projects in agricultural, forestry, fisheries and food activities. We are committed to rejuvenation of the primary sector with the GazteNEK programme, which covers all activities: training for young people to improve professionalisation or programmes to promote the integration of women at the head of farms. We develop actions for the promotion of local agri-food products; we have adapted the Eusko Label brand and the designations of origin; we promote agriculture and professional ecological livestock; we invest in innovation, through agri-food research institutes; we encourage the development of complementary activities through the Rural Tourism Network, which attracts thousands of visitors and generates an added economic activity... This is a strategy shared with the outlaws. The shared objective is to revitalize the sector, rejuvenate farms and contribute to economic improvement and employment in rural areas. Today the economic situation is better than a few years ago. We are in the right direction, but we have to keep moving forward, and I assume so too. The government's strong commitment, together with the deputies, has been embodied, for example, in the Osoa programme for rural development 2015-2020, co-financed by the European Feder funds. Our goal is to keep a rural environment alive, diverse and active and open to any opportunity. We call on Leader aid each year for the promotion and economic diversification of rural municipalities. This aid is co-managed by the Basque Government and the Mendinet Action Group, which includes the 18 rural development associations in Euskadi and the Hazi Foundation. Every year we call for Erein aid for the development and economic diversification of rural areas and the improvement of their quality of life. The total amount of aid for rural and coastal areas is EUR 60 million and, since the end of last year, we have been working on the creation of the rural entrepreneurship and social innovation ecosystem, Labean. On the other hand, Nirea is a public-private partnership programme aimed at contributing to the revitalization of the primary sector and the revitalization of the rural and coastal environment. Keeping the rural environment alive also means strengthening the role of women. In October 2015, this Parliament unanimously adopted the Statute for Women Farmers. Euskadi became the first community to regulate the female employment situation in the primary sector and in the rural environment. Our aim is to make the work of women farmers more visible and to promote their access to ownership of farms. Therefore, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, the involvement of the Government and public institutions in rural development is evident. In July 2018, last year, the Arab Foreign Ministry constituted the inter-institutional table to promote territorial balance, and since you also mentioned the coordination of the various departments of the Government, five departments of the Basque Government take part in that inter-institutional table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u39	Well, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria, again, and thank you, Mr. Urkullu. After all the battery of measures you have told me that you have taken – I have asked you "well, okay, and now, that we are going to take" – I wonder: has all that stopped the decline of the rural environment? The answer I think is taken for granted: no. I would even say that there are so many measures that have not been effective, because we have put so much... But I think there was a previous strategy missing. Of course, what are we still improving? Sure. That things have improved? Sure. I just didn't have to. I just didn't have to. But he tells me I have a tremendous image. No, no, I assure you that it is not a tremendous image; it is an absolutely real image. If we do not ask them, for example, someone who lives in Contrasta, someone who lives in the Alavesa mountain, in Añana, in Treviño, what to say. It's not a tremendous image. Living in rural areas today, is military in rural areas. And I promise you there are so many difficulties that not even with all this that you have sold us, have been faced. You tell me, broadband, for example. I don't live in a town because I have broadband. I don't stay, and like me so many people are leaving because they have older ones to take care of, children to give education, lack transportation, lack social services, lack day to day, lack work. Because the zero kilometer is also when we can work in some areas, when we don't have to go back and forth. You tell me about family farming. I think that's not today's debate, but, well, family farming is slowly disappearing, slowly disappearing. We're disappearing. You tell me about tourism. Indeed, for people living in cities. I have also said this, it is of no use to us, it is of no use to us; it is a tourism that comes and goes. We're not creating wealth, we're not creating wealth at the moment. We need people to stay. You also mentioned all the structures we have. Indeed, I have already told you, we have to ruralise. Since EH Bildu, I have already told you, we believe it is a success to bring this debate here today, to put it into reflection, to open up from June. And we need a calm but strategic reflection at the same time. What is the territory we want? What do we want it for? Or what do we need it for? As simple as that. But territory as a fundamental concept. We have to see and recognize the territory's value, its intrinsic value, its idiosyncrasy, its natural spaces, which also exist, and of course the first sector that knows best how to manage it. But I would ask for a step beyond concrete measures. We think we have to dignify the rural, the rural, the rural people, empower them, yes. Those who live, work, suffer, but also enjoy the territory. For that, I have told you in the first part and I repeat it now, we believe that the first of all, the first part, is that we must be aware that there is a problem. "We'll keep getting better." That means the problem exists. He must be given financial means. I think that is being done, although, well, we could stretch it a little further, actually, technical as well. And a strategic, viable, active and participatory plan. You have to get out of the people living there, we can't do it from these big houses. We must count on those people, who are the protagonists, who are those who live in the regions, who participate in the councils, who participate in the peoples, are the ones who will best tell us what to do, what they need or what they have left. Finally, I think we need to seek a consensus, a country agreement. I think it's equal to being successful, to being successful, isn't it? A country agreement against depopulation would be a guarantee that we will do something. And I'm going to allow these microphones and this table today to say that I'm going to put on the table a dream. I told you in the first question: do you see from here to 20 years? What territory do we want? Well, I'm going to pretend to have a dream, because I think when we dream, we believe them, we believe the dreams and we go and we create them. So, I dream of a Basque republic, yes, but that it takes care of the land, that it respects it, that it gives opportunities to the people who are there, that are here, that it takes care of and protects the people who are there, that prioritizes public policies – it is that otherwise you cannot understand – and I hope to share the dream with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u40	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. I did not say that you have a catastrophic image, but that you project that catastrophic image. In any case, with regard to the issues that you have raised, the decline in the rural environment, I do not know whether it is already depopulation or whether it is about economic development, the integral development of what the rural environment as a whole is. Look, over 30 years ago, the first Basque Rural Development Act was passed, and we are currently working on the new law, as established by our government program. And this law will be adapted to the socio-economic transformations within the European Union. It is true, in my first speech, that I mentioned the economic sphere. I believe that the measures are realistic and are being effective, even though, as in everything, we are prepared to assess them and to continue to contrast them in order to improve all the measures that have been put in place so far, in relation to what is my image for 20 years, 30 years, and to make Euskadi a territory of excellence also in rural areas. And now I am also referring to land and housing planning. The land-use guidelines are being updated and reflect the recommendation to preserve rural centres, promoting rehabilitation and better use of existing building. Our aim is to help ensure that depopulation processes do not occur, and, where appropriate, favour concentration in the most populated urban areas in each rural area, but also in rural areas. We have a programme of rehabilitation and renting of public housing in rural areas, and it is a policy that has important assistance from the department, up to 40,000 euros per housing. And this program is developed in collaboration with local authorities. In addition, the challenge of climate change is an opportunity and a need that ensures the survival of the rural world, and a more balanced management of the territory. I am referring, for example, also to the educational field, which you mentioned. One thing: in this school year there are a total of 214 centres, spread over all rural areas of Euskadi, which respond to the needs of children and primary education of 5,430 pupils. We are talking about rural centres, 95% of which have public ownership. The evolution of students does not speak of depopulation, but of stability. In the last three courses, in the last three courses, the studentship has remained between 5,400 and 5,500. In the area of health, for example, health management includes 135 primary care units. In each one there is a health centre, and in areas of geographical dispersion, offices in different municipalities, up to a total of 331 health centres and peripheral clinics. So, yes, the country environment is in trouble, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, and I confess that I do not conceal it. The problem of economic development, and of the rate of birth, is, as has been said, general in our community, not only in the country. Of course we must continue to improve. But you'll admit, our problems and the people who are in the country are not the same. They're not the same. We know what it needs. That's why we're giving answers to education, health, housing, subjugation, economic economy and country development area. I've mentioned the performances and answers we're giving. Not only economic development, in the area of economic development, the territory of land and housing, education or health. From now on, we are going to act this way, and we must act on it. Always, I think, as you mention, by understanding a popular tradition, not just fun, not just with almonds and councils, and together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Ask me, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH, a member of the Combats, made for the President, concerning the summons of the police station." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this question I addressed to you under certain circumstances, I think that the late Beltrán de Heedia will answer me because it is a technical matter. In Beltran de Heedia, you know, we see with a very bad eye the combined public offer of the corporations and the bag of work together. These models seem to us to be a serious error, badly designed, and moreover ill managed. It's badly designed, if the City Hall is a police force, they can't be organized at the expense of the characters and circumstances of each country, and, badly organized, managed, irregularly managed, because when the bag has been exhausted, the Security Department has wanted to complete it with candidates who didn't survive the OPE. The department sent an e-mail to candidates who had not passed the OPE of the second consolidated selection process, proposing to enter the unified work bag. Specifically, they had suspended physical training tests and the interview test, I think, and these candidates have been offered a kind of research, they have organized a recovery course, lowering the level, lowering the quality, to avoid a test that they had not passed at the time. I want to ask you to see if this considers it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u44	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u45	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun on. Knowing the situation, I think that's a logical and effective way. What's the situation? The Spanish Government received a decree on December 14, in order to anticipate the trial of the police. Two, on account of this decision, the 36 councils offered us a petition, in order that 270 police officers might be able to provide a new formation from the November to the Arcautemae. Three, more than five years ago, we made an agreement with each other, and we've always made an answer. Since 2013 we have heard that we have encouraged the Security Department, the Eudel, and the City Hall, to manage the formation of professional constables, and the bag-bags together. Today, for instance, 232 people are preparing to work at the Town Hall of 26 different townships at Arkautin. Now we're answering some other serious needs. On the one hand, the wants that have been produced from retirement, and on the other, the summer substitutions. We've received more than 300 requests from the 40 townhouses. So I repeat, we have answered the request of the townhouses, and have agreed to this answer with the municipal councils. The decision taken seems logical and effective to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u46	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u47	Yes, the Security Chief, driven by necessity and need, but not logically. This system is not logical at all. I understand that there's a great motion, that the trial is coming, that there's need for the season, but this system isn't logical. This is the case with the department's forecasts and the forecasts of many municipals. And it's not logical because there are alternatives, but you're obviating them and you're boycotting them. They are obviating them, because many municipalities prefer to make their own OPEs rather than go to the OPE unified by two issues, because Arkaute's OPE unified produces municipalities with the same troquel that produces ertzainas, cut by the same pattern. They only have one production formula, even if the badge is one or another. And because the municipalities, at least those of EH Bildu, in attachment to municipal autonomy, prefer to have municipal workers according to the circumstances, the needs, the identity, the idiosyncrasy of the people themselves. And it is their right, moreover, because they want to make processes of choice with attachment to the needs of the people themselves, of their own environment. And my question is, is a Santurtzi seeker where he best serves, in his area, in the area he knows, in the area he controls or will you send to Oñati, Orereta or Laguardia? Is it logical that an aspirant from Laudio ended up working, performing municipal service, in Irun? Well, I don't think so, because Udaltzaingoa's police, by definition, consider her a local police officer. The question is, perhaps, how we interpret this principle, with a centralised offer managed so that you are turning Arkaute, into a contracting agency, which awards remedies made with the same field or with the same troquel, as I say, for different circumstances, or if, precisely, those different circumstances have to be addressed. And, in addition, with a process to readmit candidates who have already suspended these tests. And we consider that this is not the way. And we say they're boycotting these processes, too, because the municipalities want to do them, but you have to send Arkaute representatives to these selection processes and they're not boycotting these own OPEs, they're failing. And we have to tell you that this is not the model, that it is over, that we are not going to resort to these job bags again and that unfortunately we will open another line of confrontation with your department, because we have our own model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. Azuga, your time is up. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u49	Eskerrik asko. Mr Arzuaga, production versus training. Training is what we do at Arkaute Academy, not production of people or production of professionals. From that point of view, also a little respect. I consider it a good thing to maintain the commitment of collaboration between the department and the Basque municipalities in the field of public security. I consider it important and essential. A commitment that, since it was launched more than five years ago, has enabled us, on the one hand, to make it easier for the municipalities to have people, many times in the temporary work bag, in order to be able to meet the needs that arise from them in a specific way; on the other hand, to facilitate training for those and professions at the Arkaute Academy. Look, just in this work bag we're talking about, there are agents coming from EH Bildu municipalities. There are agents coming from these municipalities. So boycott, for nothing. Now, you will be with me in which planning training and also the training schedule at the academy also requires you to know what the needs are. We don't have an academy and resources that can respond to demand. Therefore, we have considered – and so it has also been considered with the municipalities – that the most adjusted, most appropriate way of meeting these needs is through OPE training also unified, so that, in addition, the candidates conform to the profiles required for each and each of the municipalities, respecting, in any case, that municipal autonomy. I want to tell you that, in any case, this agreement to create this work bag with people from the second unified local police call and, also, with people who are in the selective process of the 28th promotion of Ertzaintza, said, this decision was taken by the local police selection and training group, where the department is, but also Eudel, Ajeple, are unionised, as for example ELA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u50	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpologies, written by Detective Casanova Alonso EH Collectors to the head of economics and subordinates, to guarantee the use of public funds as to the establishment of Basques and other strategic companies." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u51	Hello, good morning, everyone. I'm going to start by quoting a song from La Polla Records, it's not the first time I've done it, but it's just that british chickens London And look, I was saying that they are clairvoyant, because they put some of the central elements of the problem into one stanza, of the Euskaltel scandal that today we have on the table: Ardanza, who was president of the company; the telephones, because it is a telephone company, and London, which is precisely the one that has ended up being the center of decision of the company Euskaltel. Because yes, Mr Lehendakari, Madam Counsellor, the Euskaltel decision centre is now in London. It is not irreversible and it is not definitive, but the center of Euskaltel is already in London. I would say, using a rhetoric to use but a bit sluggish, that decisions about Euskaltel's future are going to be made in some dark London office, but no. Seeing that Zegona, the owner fund is an investment company for use, as I imagine it will not be a dark office, but a luxurious office, with design furniture and with large windows and views of the City I suppose diaphanous. As diaphanous as the intentions of this company, they are to make the maximum amount of money in the shortest possible time with absolute indifference from the future of the social commitment of the company Euskaltel. It is not a question of chauvinism, it is not a question of whether we prefer it to be Basque or we prefer it to be British. I'm going to explain it in a way that you're all going to understand perfectly. Zegona, the company that runs Euskaltel, where Euskaltel is in 10 years, gives it absolutely the same. I imagine that everyone here, or a good majority, at least, wants Euskaltel to be a company based in the country, rooted in the country, generating employment here and contributing to the Basque telecommunications sector within 10 years. That Zegona is absolutely indifferent. Moreover, Zegona doesn't care whether Euskaltel exists within 10 years or not. The only moment in history that interests Zegona de Euskaltel is the moment when he is going to sell his shares, and the moment is uniquely and exclusively in reference to the price at which he is going to sell his shares, and if for that he has to break with all the philosophy of the company, if for that he has to apply the most ultra-liberal policies possible, even if for that he has to put in place measures that compromise the future and the very existence of Euskaltel, he will do so without a doubt, because if they have any good these companies are not fooling anyone, they are absolutely clear: buy, fix, sell; that is their currency; they say so and they are going to do so. And the concerned Government, the concerned Government and the confident Government. I would sometimes really prefer you to say that you are absolutely in agreement with everything that is happening in Euskaltel. You know why? Because so I would have the feeling that there's someone in charge, that there's someone directing it, and even with a wrong idea, but at least he has a vision of where things have to go and he agrees with it. I'm much more concerned about the feeling that they're transmitting that there's no one behind the wheel, that there's no one behind the wheel, and that's what I'm worried about. I prefer someone wrong to the wheel than looking forward to the bus and seeing that there is no one there. You, as I said, are worried, you give bandages, you wait, you trust. I have already told Mr Erkoreka that I am going to prepare a form for his press conferences, in which the formula always appears, "I am concerned and trust". In fact, I have translated it into Latin, so that it can be included as currency: requestus et esperans requestus et esperans The Basque Government is concerned and trusting, but it is time for them to stop worrying and trust and start doing things. It's very clear why Zegota Eustera is coming from the beginning because it's written on the road page, and from 2012 you've got a bag of Euscaleli because you've got it out of the stock you protected and you protected them before you got out of the stockhouse all the steps you needed. Here, in this Chamber, you used to say the Social Party and the Jelt Party, and you tested it for words: The U.S.A. seems to think it's right for us to get out of the Basque S.A.'s stock. I think it's a coincidence. Orin, hemen daukaguna da hau: "Euskaltel's partners will listen to Zegona and will prioritize profitability over the root." When a company goes out on a stock exchange, what do we expect? May they be be benefactors? That philanthropists come? That people come to bet on the country? Or that investors come who give priority to profitability over rooting? Then why are we applauding him for getting out of the bag? There has been no room for doubt. I have been reviewing previous interventions, because throughout this whole process, from Euskal Herria Bildu has manifested opposition to the steps being taken. No place about the doubt. There has been absolute clarity in the opposition of Euskal Herria Bildu and there has been absolute collaboration by the parties supporting the Government throughout this process. And he reviewed previous interventions and saw that when he blamed the funds that entered and gave the previous ball, the pre-stocking, Trilantic and Investustrial were the vulture funds, that is, they do not hide their identity of vulture funds, as Zegona does not. They don't hide it. It's just that if someone invites Jack the Ripper to dinner, you can expect him to end up being dinner. And he literally said, "It's just that Jack the Ripper has a business card that says, "Hey, I'm Jack the Ripper," and you go and put him in Euskaltel. They go out in the bag, they do the ball, and now the complaints come. And what we have is, and I can't help playing a pun, but what was there. You can tell me that the decision center, formally, and the tax office are still here. Evidently, there is a building in Derio where Euskaltel is upstairs, but decisions are no longer made there, and the kind of decisions that can be made here, in Euskal Herria, looking at Euskal Herria, and those that are going to be made in London City are diametrically opposed. I repeat, it is not a question of chauvinism; it is a question of linking with the country, it is a question of compromise, it is a question of model labour relations, it is a question of relations with producers, it is a relation of priorities when making investments. We can face the situation. The situation is already serious, but it is possible to return to the situation, but it is necessary that it should do so. Hemen eztabaidatu dugu lehendik Jaurlaritzak iragari zuen were published in Inguruan. Euskal Herria Bildu has been asking for a Basque fund for years, an investment fund to prevent Basque companies from going the way Euskaltel is now going. Because it's not the first; we have precedents like ITP, Gamesa, Sidenor... When ACB was in crisis, the Basque steel table – Mrs Tapia, you will remember – was convened, a Basque steel table at which there was no company owned by Basque capital. They were Brazilians, they were Indians, they were Italians, they were Luxemburgers... At the Basque steel table there was no Basque capital company. And this is going to remain so if you don't stop and if you don't fix it. And there is a remedy and there is also a remedy that is agreed in this Parliament. They say we're tweezers, we're destructive, we don't propose anything... Hemen akordio bat genuine egg inbertsio-funts horren inguruan yaz. When his Government decided that it was necessary to put some millions into the CAF, which was a company whose roots were in no danger, and now it seems that it has doubts when it comes to entering Euskaltel, whose roots are already more than at stake. It's inprobation horren aurrean and serious a lack horren aurrean, guk eztabaida ekarri genuine Ganbera honorara eta akordio will beat heldu ginen Gobernuarekin eta Gobernua sustangatzen duten alderdiekin. That our will is not to oppress the Government with these matters, but to make the Government move, let it do what it ought to do for the benefit of all. It's for everyone's benefit to remain Basque company, and that's why our intention in this matter is not to destabilize the government in the bandies. And here, in this Chamber, we agreed to the Social Party and the Jestricist Party's boots: "When the American parliament asks everybody to present the announcement in the parliament, that the private investment-funts, when it's over, should be in the field of the first semester. "I don't know. Well, he didn't do anything. He hasn't even presented the fund. It has been, not six months, but 14 months, and Mr Urkullu was still the other saying in a business forum, in an investor forum, that please put money into that fund. If you have not been able to articulate the fund, why do you not act transparently and tell us? Why do we have to be looking at the newspapers to know what happens to the fund, when there is an agreement and there is a time frame for the establishment of that fund? Please, ladies and gentlemen of the government, put on the batteries, because your reputation or good name is not at stake, it is at stake a fundamental undertaking for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u52	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Congress and chief officers, good morning to all. Well, Mr. Casanova, the interpellation you brought to our meeting today has a lot of issues around it, a lot of spikes, but you've brought in some kind of confusion. For we may agree with several views, but at other times we may say enough, or rather, we have conflicting views and attitudes. We must first begin with the 21st. A century corporation, any company, is not 19. or 20. It's a century company. If that's how it's been, it's always been with only one plug. On the one hand, that we must be competitive as a people, that we must be competitive in order to create corporations here, to develop and to develop employment here, and, on the other hand, to develop and develop them here; and that, on the other hand, they must be competitive, so as to place competitive companies in the world, and place our people in the best possible position, because our economic area will be developed if our companies are competitive. And with these two conditions all our politics are somehow started. I know that you don't like them, that you would have done others, but these policies somehow indicate that our people have gone on for several years, and that in many places the right policy has been made. And I want to mention that rhinth to be competitive by a people, she has to put so many themes on the table that we've been talking about, and they're exactly mentioned in our industry Plan. On the one hand, we need land to place those companies, whether they come from home or from without, because those who create jobs for us are still the euscal companies for us. They must have the right rangers. We need a suitable tax system to develop the different financial tools. We need people, people formats. We need proper substructures from the point of view both the roads, the railways, the airports, the harbours, the Istanbuls of optical fibres, not only in the great cities, but in all the country. So our policy was to put all these tools in support of our companies, our hundred industrial and financial fabric, to be developed and competitive as a nation, and as a corporation to be competitive. For this purpose, in several areas and many times different things have been done, and different sectors have been developed by being pushed from the public sector. In one sense, companies like Euskaltel started at their own time, but firms like ITP, like Games, have started in different sectors. And now we're considering what companies we're going to have in this fourth industrial revolution. There is, therefore, a public impulsion, but as impulsive and as support, from that point forward, the enpresities themselves ought to be competitive in our country. And we really believe in it. So let's say the important thing is to be a competitive people and have competitive businesses. From there, let's focus on the Euskaltel case. Well, at the moment it is clear that Euskaltel has an agreement which you have despised, but which, of course, is an agreement reached among shareholders that precisely guarantees the firm's roots, and I would like many of the companies in this country to have those guarantees of roots, even being a listed company. You were questioning the outing of a company. Well, the outflow of companies in this country has ensured that they have sufficient resources to grow and be more competitive and that, in general, has been demonstrated in all companies that are listed in Euskadi. Therefore, I would say that it is not bad, in itself, for a company to go out on a stock market, and I believe that this issue has already been discussed. Specific considerations regarding the root of Euskaltel. Over time there have been different circumstances from its constitution in 98 to the departure of the part, let's say, more public in 2012, of the entry of investment funds, and even of the exit to the stock exchange. But on that outflow, it was precisely that outflow that was used to modify the company's statutes in order to guarantee a number of fundamental elements of rooting, both defining how to do so and requiring an exceptionally high percentage, exceptionally high, of approval of agreements that are linked to rooting. These statutes, which were considered and approved by all shareholders who were shareholders at the time of the stock exchange, said that the definitions of the root were the registered office, yes, the social object, but also the change of the possible Euskaltel brand in Euskadi, the effective administration and management of the company in Euskadi, a concept that, in addition to the registered office, includes the obligation to hold the general meetings here. In addition, the maintenance of personal resources, the maintenance of work centres, the maintenance of material means and, ultimately, the development of the activity of the telecommunications operator in Euskadi, as well as the ownership of the telecommunications network. So, I think that rooting is more than guaranteed. And it says expressly: "Most are exceptional because the minimum necessary to change any of these root elements is a 75% capital percentage." In other words, shareholders who as a whole have 25% can, acting together, veto any change in the root elements. This is exceptional, I don't think there is any other company in Euskadi that has it. And from 2005 until now, Kutxabank has been changing its stake to 19.88% today, but if we join the shares of Kutxabank other participating shares or other Basque shareholders, taking into account pension funds, private shareholders and others, we reach 25%. Therefore, today that root is not in doubt, those conditions are not in doubt. Moreover, of the shareholders present when Euskaltel went out on the market, 50% of those shareholders signed that agreement. Then, I believe that the root element, also perfectly defined, is guaranteed. And let's go to the investment fund, which currently has a majority of that 20%, 20%. Not anymore. It is public how an investment fund works either this or another. And, of course, having an investment fund is a good thing, because it helps to have additional resources to generate growth. And I'd tell you two more things. In addition to an investment fund, it is true, and it is true, that I have told you, on more than one occasion, that it would be important for the future development of this company, that there should be an industrial investor, at least, to ensure long-term development. I also have to say, because you were saying another element, which is that investment funds always tell the truth, they don't usually hide their future actions or intentions. I have to tell you that Zegona, as such, as an investment fund, has maintained various contacts with this government, various contacts, both face-to-face and telephone, in which she has been transmitting directly to us what steps they were going to take. They have been clear and transparent in their way of acting and, moreover, they have shown their willingness to maintain the root, to never question the subject of root, to want to grow on all the actions that have taken place in Euskadi, to grow the company, to diversify business and to diversify actions and to give importance to innovation. And above all, a very relevant element, not to perform, not to exercise any kind of imposition, neither on the board, nor on the Board of Directors, but to perform it through elements according to other majority shareholders that lead the company in the right direction. So far, right now, it's the way you're working. Now, did we say what Euskaltel we want in the future? For when it has been developed and when that investment fund, which has entered at a certain time, will come out, it is desirable that there is an industrial activity. And of course, if at some point, at some point in this whole transition we are at risk of the possibility that 25% is not in the right hands, obviously the government has the necessary instruments to be able to act and to intervene. There's no such risk today. So I think there's a future between that company and the stockholders there's a private company, even though it started with public investors, and today it's a private company that has the future and there's a way. And today, really, we're calling it Euscalel's "Escaltel" "Esté, Euscaltel Company" Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u55	Well, Mrs Tapia, I would almost have been convinced if I had not known and studied the precedents, because, look, in 2012 when they sell the fiber optic network and part of the actions, the Socialist Party at the time says – I have reviewed the hemerotheque and says – "This money will serve to finance social policies." What is the political version was the year 2012, of the people who went to the "Selling Gold. I buy gold," to sell Grandma's jewelry to face a short-term expense. A book error from a strategic perspective. But the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party said that the root was guaranteed because Kutxabank and the Basque Government were still "majority shareholders". What a time those, "majority shareholders." Now you're telling me that 25% is going to be guaranteed. Look, being a majority shareholder Kutxabank and the Basque Government, but then Kutxabank and the funds, but being Kutxabank and having control, jobs were amortized, essential services of the company were outsourced, suppliers were tightened up, subcontracts were abused, cycling equipment was liquidated, a ball – the bonus – of which it makes history... That's mostly Kutxabank. You want to tell me now that with 20%, Kutxabank... In addition, Kutxabank is poking in our face, because when we're asking you to increase your percentage, it's sold. That is, in these months of controversy, Kutxabank is still disinvesting in Euskaltel. And what Kutxabank has not done with 49% plus 2% that gave it control, does it tell me that we are going to do it now with 25%? No, man, no. This is like the frog that cooks in the pot over low heat, and you want us not to react. But we have denounced every step and this is the time to say enough. This is the time to demand that this Government take the wheel with determination and do its part. He said that he has many edges my intervention, but basically he has two, two to which he has not answered: What are you going to do to recover the root of Euskaltel? And how and when will the investment fund be set up to ensure the roots of strategic enterprises? And sometimes you tell me, "it's that we're doing this," "I know it's not your taste," "it's that we have different models"... It is true that we have different models, but sometimes we come to agreements and those agreements are supposed to be a synthesis or a meeting point. But if these agreements are not to be implemented, explain to me why I come here to agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. If I come to agreements to ask that labour reform be repealed and when it is not repealed I ask for more things to be done, it says to me, "no, no, it's that there is an agreement." I come to an agreement to raise salaries, and when you don't raise salaries, it says to me, "we've already made an agreement." I come to an agreement that a road map be drawn up to set up a strategic investment fund in this country, and it is not put in place... So, of course, it's no longer that when we have different models, because we have different models, and when we come to agreements, because then you're going to do what you want... So, what are we doing here? Then understand that I'm pissed off. And I have put on the table, beyond rhetoric, beyond saying that the agreements say I don't know what, because I already say that with mostly Basque capital there have been trophies in Euskaltel, and from now on they are going to make trophies. And to you Zegona can tell Mass in Latin – as she spoke before, in Latin – that Zegona is going to make the most of your investment. And everything else doesn't matter. And if Zegona's ugly doesn't meet, they're gonna kick him out. Well, it's a small, very peculiar company, but that's how they work. If they don't... The shareholders are asking for a revaluation of the investment. And if that's what they have to get Virgin in here for, they're gonna get Virgin in here. And if they have to denaturalize even more Euskaltel, they will, they will. Because that's the way we're going. And you say you have to invest in companies and then go out? Man, sometimes you have to make investments at an initial stage and then retire, and sometimes you have to make investments with a permanence vocation and with a vocation to articulate also a structural fund of investment. You have said more than once, "I would love to have a sovereign fund, as has Norway." Of course, and so do I. Is that a problem for you? Is it an expense? No, no, Do you have a problem with the billion that Norwegians have invested in the investment fund? No, right? And they don't say that it's not about social policies. That is a guarantee of the future for the country. And on a much more modest scale, of course, what I am asking is that we start investing in strategic companies, because even if in the short term we have to put money there, apart from ensuring the root, it is something that is going to be profitable. And it's not a matter of growing up and applauding every outlet, because it's not the only way to get funding. It's not the only way. Ask Eroski, see what you think of growing up for growing up, or ask Fagor. It's not just about growing up to be competitive. It can be competitive with good management and with good roots in the territory, and with a good market share. Because here Euskaltel has not managed to be what it is for Zegonas, for CEO, for Ardanzas, or for García-Erauzkin..., it has managed to be what it is because the people of this country perceived it as a company of this country, and it gave priority to being a consumer of that product because it was a product of this country and because it was for the benefit of this country. And if you lose that, you've started to lose everything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u56	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u57	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I used to say, Mr. Casanova, that there are a lot of spikes here you've mentioned, because, in a way, the word "Rargo" is over and over again, and in states, 2015, when it comes out to the stock, it's not enough to mention that it's recorded in states. That's a matter of fact. Not when a company has it in the state, that's what it's for. And in the Administration Council, and above all in the general assembly of the stockholders, this is fulfilled, as you know. So let's not confuse things. But I would like to comment again that the main attraction of a country like Euskadi – a small country, of course – for a company to be rooted, to remain rooted and, of course, for us to be able to attract other companies – because we have to do it; we cannot live alone from those we are here, from what we generate here; we have to attract companies that are also innovative – happens because we have a competitive ecosystem, a competitive territory. And I was talking to him about elements of all kinds that we have to continue to put into operation and that are reflected in the Industrialization Plan of this legislature, approved by this House. Of course what we do not have to do, what we cannot and must not do is to retain companies when they are not competitive, because the only thing we are doing is to establish public measures to create companies that are hostages. That does not interest us as a country, because these companies are neither competitive nor job-generating, nor are they actually generating economics. And we have to be aware that we have to have another kind of business. We all have to get a company like Euskaltel to really continue here. We have talked about the subject of rooting, and of continuing to work so that, in addition to being rooted, of generating employment, that this job is of quality, that it can continue to grow, because at this moment Euskaltel if something is still lacking, is a development at the service of the business fabric. Euskaltel was born serving each and every one of us as citizens, but he still has a lack in the business sphere, which I believe he has to face, and which is currently in his management plan and his strategic plan. Then, it still has a great deal to do and, of course, the work of this Government will continue to support that as a reality. You casually tell me about the Norwegian sovereign fund, and I told you last time, where did the Norwegian sovereign fund come from? Of your resources, casually, fossils, as you well know. Well, that's another debate, in which we don't agree very much either, but maybe if we were able to get some fossil resources out of our basement that we have, because maybe we could have that sovereign fund, but if not, it's going to be impossible, it's going to be impossible. And this House has also decided not, in one way or another, but in another. No, no, no, I answer to what you tell me: Norwegian sovereign background, the only way to do it is as they do, but it's not the model, is it? Well, then let's leave it. And you tell me they're worried because there's no one behind the wheel. Well, barkatuko didazu, Eta Urruzuno jaunari ez zaio gustazen ongi etorria ematea industria-politikara eta abar, Eta ez dizuet ongi etorria emango, baina baia bai aipatuko dut, nolabait industriari egokituta, Manuel de Irujok aspaldi esan zua, Eta erespepu guztiz esango diut beak esan zuen bezala eta erabili egingo dut: it is good to evolve, very good to evolve, to recognize errors and work for the industry, but to those who have worked for the development of the industry, for its transformation and for today to be competitive for more than 40 years, since democracy arrived in this country, lessons the just, and, you know, converts, to the tail! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpoment, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team to the head of Economic Economical Economical Economics of Economics and Sub-Series, the Visfer of the Urals on the socimal development of the Reservation." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. This subject, Mrs. Tapia, will be easier than the other, but it's important too. We'll talk about the Biosfer of U-Baid. As you know, it is the only garrison of nature which has been protected by a Eucharistic law in the Usai. This law was adopted in this legislature in 89, and being admitted to this legislature, we wish to express our concern, in what manner of development or development it is developing in the biosferra reservatory. You know, as you know, the biosfera-reservative means that they must be protected in the same place, on the one hand by nature and system, and on the other by man and his activities-that is to say, human systems and even the culture and history and traditions of society. Nature, man, and tradition must at the same time be protected. Our team believes that Umibai is alive, but we're looking for the future and we're looking forward to living Urdaba. A number of birds now find shelter in the Ural Mountains, but in the same place, for generations, the inhabitants have done their jobs, and we wish to continue this work because of this work we have managed to achieve the balanced and beautiful landscape we now see. As I have said, it is necessary, in order to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, and to develop, the eternal activity of nature, and to preserve the being. To protect nature belongs to Mr. Arriola, who belongs to the Department of Environment, which is the instrument, PRUG, and I have spoken of it, and I shall continue to speak to Mr. Arrian. But we have only one instrument of the eternal activities of man: PADAS. The plan is quite retarded now to develop social activity, and this plan is all fun-making, but your department has the main paper because there's farming, fishing, wooding and industry, especially the rails. That's why, and as we want permanent development, I'll make you an interpenetration, to see what kind of paper your department will take on the way this PADAS is going to develop, because this year the way of structure will begin, and it will end shortly at the end of the year. And for this purpose it was my intention to make a slight examination through this interpelation, of the development of the social condition or the social condition of the region: Farming, ranching, fishing, foresting and industry. For instance, in agriculture, according to data, in 89, for ten years, half of the cultivated lands disappeared, and what remains now is much less. About ranching, 40% of the cattle disappeared during the 10 years. For the fish, like Bermeon, for the last 30 years, there were 140 ships at first, and there are only 20, 20, 20, and most of them fish green and anchovy, which are the cheapest fish, and, besides, their quotas are, in addition, of green Gibraltar. Then the view isn't very hopeful either in agriculture or ranching or fishing. In the woods, he was in the inventory two years ago, half the forests of Pinus ratata. Industrial affairs, what can I say? It's a long list of lost corporations and I won't mention them all, but Inama, Ildurgo, Jipsa, Rinder, Wärtsilä... all these have disappeared... Wärtsilä is not completely missing, but the production is gone, and that's just the maintenance, which isn't a company, it's a workshop, but, well, I admit, it hasn't gone completely, but most of it is gone. And compared to that, it's a short list of new companies. I don't know any list of the new firms that I've been in the U-boat. I don't know any company. That's why I want to discuss with you what developments you anticipate and what perspectives there are in this sector and what measures you're going to propose to that PADAS, to structure and make. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u61	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, Mr. Becerra, I'm going to tell you that I'm quite willing to respond to this interference. Why? Well, as a matter of fact, when we're always around the Urals, we're in the middle of an obvious point of view. You've argued a lot, you've said it yourself, and the group you're with gives a special significance to this view, almost, I dare say, from the point of view of conservativeism, you've given a great deal of importance to the GRU, and not so much to the development. But let's get to business! In a certain sense, what these people seek and demand has always been the increase of economic development with an environmental view. Gure salta ez dago patronatuan bertan, governanza arloan ez dago, bai bai ditu hainbat eskumen sektorial PADAS hori aurrera eraman ahal iziziko. Eta nik you had to ustartu behar ditugula bi ikuspegi horiek. In some ways, what is the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, in our opinion, of course, has to take the two areas: care and protection, but also economic development, well adjusted, of course, but it has to take the two areas. And it has to fulfil three functions that we consider complementary: to preserve what resources, species, both ecosystems and landscapes are; a development function, in order to promote the economic and social development of all areas, of all the municipalities that are in the environment, and a certain logistical support to implement research, training and education actions that will permanently lead us to have this vision jointly. What happened? It has been developed within this programme of action that has the patronage, which is the Program of Harmonization and Development of Socio-economic Activities, which is the PADAS, through different sectoral plans, and that is where the department has its capacity to act, in these sectoral plans. I will refer to the actions that are already being carried out, not those that we intend to carry out, but to how we are carrying out and trying to develop all the actions that are contained in that development plan, which refer, as I think you mentioned, to having a developed rural area, a competitive and environmentally friendly industrial sector, a tourism sector that is also moving forward in external management, structuring and promotion, a well-connected territory, that is, with adequate transport infrastructures, and a space in which the greatest possible share of the resources that we have at that time, working in a coordinated way with the various levels, both from the point of view of the Basque Government and of the outlaws and of the municipalities involved. All this has been reflected in the PADAS, in the various sectoral programmes and plans, and I will refer to what we have developed over these years, up to this very year. From the point of view of rural development, we have managed resources in various projects, using the Erein and Leader programmes. Most of them involve investments in equipment, infrastructure and public services, and also support for entrepreneurship in different initiatives. Overall, 177 public and private projects have been supported, which have involved an investment in the entire region of more than 16 million euros between 2007 and 2018, of which, yes, more than 7 million euros –7.300.000 approximately – have been those contributed by the Basque Government. Projects have been developed from the remodeling of the Gernika market to a new ecological sanitation-purification network in Merrua auzoa, in Ibarrangelu; the sanitation of the Zabala district; the incorporation of landfills in the Arratzu district. Well, a series of relevant public actions, but also private projects associated with both the tourism sector and, of course, the wood processing sector throughout the environment. In the area of fishing – you also referred to how the fleet is located in the area of Urdaibai – and the bassura fleet, because of its condition that it is one of the most profitable and environmentally friendly activities, because of the way in which fishing is generally carried out throughout our bassura fleet, has two areas of interest, or two important airlines, which are that stake in that bassura network, working in a sustainable way and also trying to support new projects related to investments in improving the safety and health conditions of all people working in that bassura fleet. A further EUR 211,000 have been devoted to this. Dynamization of commercial activity in the port, increasing revenues of the fleet through different types of implementations of normalization in production, four different types of measures have been taken. Firstly, to attract fleets so that they can download in Bermeo, which is the main port; to increase revenues by valuing the product that is also discharged in the port; the third of the lines is the promotion of quality in fish, how that fish is treated and put on the market, and to enhance distribution through retail trades, as well as new ways of selling, giving greater added value to that product. Overall in the four measures, the first, attraction, does not involve economic resources; the second measure has been allocated 234,000 euros; the third of the measures, in the promotion of quality, almost 11,000 euros, has also not been an excessive resource, and in the whole of the empowerment of distribution, it has been 57,000 euros. We have also tried to modernize that fleet that we have at the moment, that fleet of bassura, applying resources to improve the situation of all the ships that are working with Bermeo as its main port, and a new initiative has been launched, which was announced last year, called Bermeo Tuna World Capital. In addition to that name, which may sound a bit bumpy, what is intended is to work in a public-private way with the whole freezer tuna sector, which in Bermeo is very relevant, it is one of the most economically relevant sectors, together with the Bizkaia Foral Diputation, the Bermeo City Council and the Basque Government, in such a way that everything that is being done is valued, that sustainable fishing is generated, more sustainable if it is what we have at the moment, and that this product is to be valued through actions of science, technology and innovation, and that it will also enable us to improve the situation of the seas through a concrete initiative, for example, for which we bet this year on the collection of plastics in the oceans as well. Therefore, initiatives are already in place. In forestry policy, we have focused mainly on wood processing, and Ebaki, Egoin and Olatek companies have been supported. That is to say, all those forest resources we have in this area have their transformation sector also located in the same area. Tourism does not belong to this department; there is a Department of Tourism. However, we work from the vice-advisors of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Policy, together with the Government's Department of Tourism, trying to optimize resources and make the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve a sustainable tourism space and adhere to the European Charter of Sustainable Tourism. In the energy sector, from the point of view of the commitments contained in the PADAs, improvements have been made to electricity supply, energy efficiency and alternative energy sources. The lighting of many of the municipalities has been improved, new renewable energy projects have been launched in a multitude of municipalities in the environment. As for industry, it is true that for industry to develop, one of the elements is the need for soil and the need for areas to develop it. The Elkartegi, located in Gernika, has been set up jointly with the Bizkaia Provincial Council, and we continue with the intention of developing the Muxika area. As for infrastructure, I'll tell you in the second because I'm getting longer. We are focusing on it from two points of view, from the railway visa point of view and from the port point of view, in the port of Bermeo, improving all those facilities, so that we are developing actions, now, in the current PADAS and, of course, our involvement will be maximal, as so far, when the new programme is renewed and revised, which is currently being reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u63	Well, you've referred, Madam Counsellor, to "conservatism", I imagine it will be "conservatism", but well, nothing happens. I agree with you that when a natural space is protected, and more in a biosphere reserve, especially in a biosphere reserve, precisely because what has made that valuable space has been the union of natural values with human activity, what needs to be done is to protect and develop, as I said. But it's also true that in a biosphere reserve you can't even do all the activities and you can't do it everywhere, and that's sometimes what you don't understand – your party was going to say – the vizcaine part of your party, let's say. You can't do everything in Urdaibai, and you can't do it everywhere. But I agree with you that economic development is necessary, because otherwise it becomes a theme park. I mean, right now the only thing that works well in Urdaibai is tourism. Tourism works phenomenal, but the rest of the economic activities do not work. You mentioned the renewal of the Gernika market, but it is that in the Gernika market right now products are being sold from Mercabilbao, because there are 600 farmers and farmers in Urdaibai, but it is only 3% of employment, it is only 3% of employment. And there I am including fishing as well. So, I'm going to mention certain issues that appeared in the last assessment that was made of the previous PADAS, which was made 12 years ago already (2007), but which I believe, although you've made me a relationship of the things that you've been doing, almost none of which at the time the PADAS assessment put that they were not doing. And of course, most of them corresponded to his department. Moreover, in this evaluation of PADAS they put green, yellow and red faces – the red was a slightly angry face – and almost all the angry and red faces corresponded to matters of their department. For example, in agriculture, there was a commitment, which I thought was important, and which is to incorporate Urdaibai's distinctive provenance into quality agri-food products. And in that, removing Gernika's pepper, little has been done. In fishing, there was talk of a bet for the bass fleet, but it is true that in his department the bet has been for the fence, not the artisanal. The artisanal quotas are getting smaller, we have talked about the green, and the fishing quotas for the artisanal are getting smaller. It is true that you were already answering me in writing that they are going to attract or are trying to attract fleets to land in Bermeo, but it is that the ones that have landed in the last summers are the pelagics, which end up with all the fishing of the Cantabrian, apart from the two that you have achieved, but it is that what we are getting right now is that fishing is all less sustainable. And what we have to look for is precisely that sustainability. And since we are talking about fishing and you are going to answer me now to the question of railways and ports, in the ports you were asked to keep the tug and build the house of the sea. And he was also asked to have spaces for the service of tuna and cabotage. He'll tell me if they've done anything. In industry, they were asked to boost eco-industry. Obviously, I don't think anything has been done about that. And also, and also, and this is important, to develop a specific plan for soil and industrial pavilions. Because in fact, as a result of the companies that have closed down with the crisis, Urdaibai has industrial soil right now, you were referring to Muxika, I don't know if you meant to reuse Inama's soils, but really what you have to look for in Urdaibai is not to occupy new soils, but to reuse existing soils and that Sprilur can be involved in that task. And on the railway he was asked for the unfolding of the Amorebieta-Bermeo road and the impulse of the traffic of goods by rail, basically, that I understand that in this matter too much has been done. As I say to you, beyond the actions you have not done on the previous PADAS, what worries me is those that are going to push ahead with the next PADAS, because, as I say, not all activities are compatible with a biosphere reserve. If agriculture is to be developed, it is better to be ecological; if fisheries are to be developed, it is better to be artisanal; if the forestry sector is to be developed, it is better to be a sustainable and non-eucalyptus forest sector and, if possible, not a pine sector. If industry needs to be developed, it needs to be a processing industry for agricultural, livestock, fisheries and forestry products produced in Urdaibai; and if transport and infrastructure need to be developed, whether they are sustainable infrastructure such as railways, or energy such as self-consumption of renewable energy. What we have to look for, counselor, is that Urdaibai does not become a theme park, that it does not become the garden we have around the villa, because that poor favor does Urdaibai and his population.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u65	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Becerra, we agree that the PADAS has to work, of course, from the point of view – of course, the word is gone – "conservationist", not "conservationist", but not only to make conservation strategy, but also social development and economic development. We agree that "not anything, anywhere", but I believe that the work that has been carried out since the patronage of the biosphere reserve, as well as all the actions of setting up certain elements, certain projects, both at the level of fisheries and agriculture, and of transformation, of course, according to the municipalities and according to the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, have carried out it. So, I think that, well, that allusion to my party in Bizkaia I think is a little out of place, because I don't think any nonsense has been done or intended to be done any nonsense. In order to clarify some concept, encirclement fishing is also artisanal. At this time in Basque there is no fishing that is not artisanal. There are different fishing gears, but all of them artisanal. And they all qualify by the European Union, and so always considered, as sustainable, both in terms of bass fishing, both on our bass boats, whether using some arts or others, but also in heights and freezer tuna. They are described as really sustainable – and do not put strange faces because they are – are the fishermen, the ships, the most sustainable that exist at this time from the point of view of the fleet of freezer tuna. So we're going to say things as they are and we're not going to invent strange concepts. You were talking about the pelagic discharges. – which were in Ondarroa, by the way – and, well, I believe what we have to work on is to continue to give way to the processing industry, it is true, both to the forest, which is our competence, not so much what is planted and how, but how it is transformed. That is the competence of the Basque Government with regard to forest development, and we have done so. And that's how those industries that I've been talking about are working, and you have to consider that if we're going to change the kind of forest we're going to have, the type of forest, we're going to have to adapt the industry, and we're going to have to work with them to make it happen. And that's what we're immersed in right now, in an adaptation development of that kind of industry. Secondly, precisely in Urdaibai, and specifically in Bermeo, it is where the most canning industry we have, a quality canning industry. I also confirm to you another action that we are carrying out with the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, so that at this time what is beautiful from the north is qualified as such within our canneries and no other kind of varieties that are not beautiful from the north and yet are labeled as such, for example. They are then complex actions that must also be addressed from the point of view of the European Union, how they are carried out, and it is our highest priority to guarantee quality, to ensure that processing companies, in this case you will retain, at the very first level, but not only that, there are also chacolí producers in that environment, for example. Then, with all of them we have to work to have some really productive businesses. And that's gonna be our line of action once it's recovered or reviewed, sorry, the new PADAS. We will recover some actions that are also important from the point of view of railway infrastructure. There is one element that Bermeo has also been requesting for a long time and it is a road trip out of its port infrastructure that really meets the needs of a twenty-first century industry. It is an element that we also have pending and that, well, we must continue to work. Road and rail infrastructure that responds to an infrastructure that we are modernising and that we are going to have modernised in the port of Bermeo. With a new length, too, and with actions on different docks that allow us to give the best service to our fishing sector. So I think that's the will, that we've demonstrated it to actions. I will not look back, I have only spoken of our management, and we intend to continue it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask you, M. del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muntaine, the lawmakers of the Populative Groups of Economics and the Chief of the Sub-Square Districts, the Society of the Educts of the Barrex of ABRA, in order to deny the prestige of the Errix of the Barraba, and to use "Euskadi" instead. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, the Association of Wineries of Rioja Alavesa, ABRA, decided in an assembly, very controversial, by the way, last April 15, to amend its statutes to be called from now on Association of Wineries of Euskadi. This decision, from our point of view as a People's Group, has been taken with affluence and nocturnality, having not been informed of the 109 associated wineries of the changes that were intended in the assembly: change of statutes, but not change of name and scope of action; remove "Rioja Alavesa" from the name of the association and change it to "Euskadi", as well as incorporate in the association of wineries of other designations of origin of Euskadi, txakolis or cider. Only 10% of the associated wineries supported these changes. The manager of this association insists that the Basque Government was informed of these changes. Counselor, was your department aware of these changes? Were your department informed of ABRA's conversations with Txakoli and cider designations of origin? Have you maintained, Madam Counsellor, your department discussions on this matter with ABRA and with the Txakoli and cider designations of origin? ABRA complains about the economic support or lack of economic support from the institutions. In the budgets of this Autonomous Community we see year after year an input for ABRA that has not been reduced, except in some year of crisis very exceptionally, but I would also like to know if your department makes any other contributions throughout the year to ABRA, apart from the one specifically appearing in the item.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u69	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, first of all I have to tell you that the name change to which you referred, of course, is due to an absolutely private decision. It is therefore a respectable private association. However, I do want to make it clear and I want to make it clear that this Basque Government had no news about it until it heard from the press, probably just like you. Moreover, just a month ago we held the last meeting with the new direction of ABRA, with the presidency and with the leadership, where another topic related to the wines of Rioja Alavesa was addressed, and at no time did this constitution or modification be put on the table. Therefore, not only are we not informed, but we are informed by the press. However, in a globalized world, we are aware that standardization makes us lose value and that a special wine zone, specific, typical and with a quality of its wines like that of Rioja Alavesa must be cared for and must be worked from that specificity, without losing the characteristics of Rioja Alavesa. A private decision, therefore, which the Government had no record of, and which we consider that Rioja Alavesa, because of the quality of its wines, must continue to refer to that specificity and quality of those wines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u71	Madam Counselor. From the People's Group, in fact, we want to highlight the value represented by the Denomination of Origin Rioja, which in 2025 will turn 100 years, a unique brand, recognized worldwide, that has begun an important way to take a claim from Rioja Alavesa, to open labelling to other specificities, as has been said here. Therefore, we understand that we have an almost exclusive value and potential. From the People's Group we appreciate positively the work that Txakoli designations of origin do, and we also ask that they be treated in their greatest demand, if they require such support, also to the Association of Wineries of Rioja Alavesa. But we insist, once again, that the umbrella of the Rioja Regulatory Council is the best companion for the sale of our wines, and that the representation of the Álava Diputación in the council is necessary to defend the interests of the Rioja winegrowers when it comes to matters of their competence, whether it is the Basque Government who gives up the chair with these cases, and I refer to what the Basque Nationalist group proposed and approved in this House in 2010. He said his initiative: "... in application of the principle of subsidiarity and within the framework of competition, transfers or shares the representation of the Basque Autonomous Community in the Regulatory Council Denomination of Origin Rioja to the Foral Diputación de Álava." Something very sensible, which was supported and which we fully share, because I think that would also help to be more responsive to the reality and competence that each institution has at the moment. We are surprised that, after yesterday's meeting, ABRA's wineries – more than 60 wineries – will force the holding of an extraordinary assembly to address this issue in a monographic manner. However, in view of the press release of the Basque Winery Association itself, ABE is not aware of the discomfort of its partners. And I wonder, Commissioner, and we want to tell you, we believe that from the Basque Government we must put order in these adventures sponsored by a few, which have repercussions on a whole sector and on the name of the brand and, moreover, use names of other designations of origin without authorization of these or manifest interest. So, counselor, here you do have to put order, and that's your job. It turns out that both begging for the name and differentiation of "Rioja Alavesa" and now we cover it with "Euskadi wines". This is surprising, striking and worrying. We are very concerned; a lot of work has been done, and this denomination must be defended.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u73	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. We understand and share your concern, Mrs López de Ocariz, because we believe that excluding the Rioja Alavesa brand from this winery association, of course, is not an appropriate strategy. We don't share it. It is up to us to respect it, but we do not share it. Moreover, we believe that Rioja Alavesa has enough entity for us to work, to be known and recognized. Moreover, associated with all the wine tourism, with an entire sector that is really growing in the field, we have to enhance it rather than hide it; it has its own personality and referentiality in order to continue to be so. And as you said, if there are a number of designations of origin that they consider they have to unite to work within a different association, of course, we will work with them and we will, but it has to be born from the joint will of all of them. That is, if the three DDOOs of txakoli, plus cider, plus ABRA, for example, or the corresponding winery association, want to have a unified association for any kind of action, we will help them to do so, but it has to be born from the joint will of each and every one of them. We understand that it cannot be the result of the will of a party that intends to assume the will of the whole. Of course, we do not understand that one can, for none of them, renounce their own denomination of origin, because it is a value in itself, especially when we are doing a very relevant job in order to be known internationally and to position our wines internationally, which is where there can really be a market to grow. From that point of view, we are going to work with each and every one of them, but trying to reach that agreement that we understand has to be important. And, as you said, yesterday there was an assembly that I think was relevant, that will force the convening of a new assembly, and while the press release is in one way, the fact is that there will be another assembly, that we understand that it can improve the situation and that it can clarify some of the decisions already taken. The government will always be with each and every DDOO, seeking their differentiation, seeking their positioning and working together with the sector. But one of them can neither seek the unique referentiality for all nor take charge of the representation of each and every wine sector in this country. That is our position today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the regional Plant and Housing Department, about the speculation of St. Sebastian City of San Sebastián." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u75	Good morning, counselor. The Territorial Planning Guidelines that approved its department provisionally, in November 2018, set out objectives for urban habitat – I have them here – that are basically improving the quality of life of residents, overcoming social and urban imbalances, taking advantage of urbanized space, ensuring the enjoyment of the historical and cultural heritage for citizens, and ensuring a provision of public services that facilitate socialization. In Donostia, in San Sebastián, these principles are being blatantly violated by the City Council's urban plans, hence the citizens have even decided – and this is surprising – to go to the streets tomorrow to denounce this situation. And I want to ask you, within your competence, the competences of your department, how will you make these objectives be met by using all the legal instruments that you have at your disposal for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u76	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra, you know that my willingness is always to respond promptly and fully to the questions put to me in this Parliament, and that is why I like to get the most information available on what I am asked, but sometimes you do not make it easy for me. I have read several times these days the formulation of your initiative to try to find out what it meant specifically and I have come to suspect only where the shots could go. He asked me whether our department intended to comply with and enforce the Guidelines for the Planning of the Territory approved by the Basque Government with regard to several amendments to the General Plan for Urban Planning, which, in his view, would be contrary to the principles laid down by those guidelines. I do not know what changes to the General Plan for Urban Organization are specifically concerned with, because the Town Hall of Donostia-San Sebastián has dealt with six in the past two years, covering a wide range of areas, and there are two more that are pending the report of the Territorial Planning Commission. And what land management guidelines do you take as a benchmark for alleged non-compliances? Are the existing guidelines or the revision of the guidelines for the management of the territory in process, which you know have been provisionally approved, but which will enter into force when they are finally adopted at the end of the year? According to the Basque Country Land and Urban Planning Act 1990 and the Soil and Urban Planning Act 2008, which it is aware of, all general plans and their amendments must be subject to a mandatory report by the Basque Country Land and Land Planning Commission, which must decide on their adequacy to the Territorial Land and Other Partial and Sectoral Territorial Planning Guidelines. Consequently, the intention of our Department, and what the Territorial Planning Commission does in fact, is to comply with legal obligations with all rigour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u79	Let's see, even without being my very specific question, and that I admit, I think you have seen well where you were going and answered correctly. Indeed, they have processed six urban planning plans, plus two, eight; they should have changed the whole urban planning plan and not. First non-compliance with the Donostia-San Sebastián City Council. But it is that all those urban plans that are promoting what they are doing is driving wild urban speculation, which you, when you have dealt with the previous plans, have not stopped. For example, when talking about improving the quality of life of residents, the City of Donostia does not respect the green areas, even counts the slopes and ravines as green areas to prove that it already has the minimum set by the regulations. When it is said in the new guidelines that the urbanized soil must be used, the City of Donostia gets into the non-urbanizable areas, such as the Basozabal golf project, for which I asked him in writing, to requalify four hectares of land to make some chalets and a golf course. This is also done by the City Council of Donostia-San Sebastián. The Town Hall of Donostia-San Sebastián also fails to comply with the Soil Law on Officially Protected Housing because the General Urban Planning Plan that they approved in 2010 did not meet the requirements of the Soil Law and, therefore, the Housing Authority has been silent during these times, despite the fact that the Municipal Housing Plan of the Town Hall of Donostia-San Sebastián has, contemplates or collects almost 10,000 applications for protected housing and, however, for 2025, as much as you intend to make 1,900 homes, and you keep quiet and grant. The municipality of Donostia-San Sebastián also acts against local trade by approving plans for large commercial areas, such as the Belize-2 plan, more than 200,000 m 2 of industrial land which, however, will be dedicated to commercial land for Mercadona, and where when they have failed to comply with the waste disposal regulations, the Vice-Environmental Councillor of your department has also shut down and granted. I will not mention too much the issue of historical and cultural heritage because that is not their competence, but the City of Donostia-San Sebastián has tried to overthrow the Palace of Fine Arts of 1914; it has tried to load the nurseries of Ulysses; the Oasa pavilion, which is of Bauhaus architecture; the church of San Bartolomé has come to overthrow it, and that involved a fine of 1,500 euros, a neo-Gothic church demolished in exchange for 1,500 euros, have only kept the facades. And so on. Donostia is today a city of facade, beautiful on the outside but hollow and empty on the inside, because it is being sold both by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which are in the Government of Donostia. And so you can't go on, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u81	Mr Becerra, I would be grateful if you would not, as far as possible, subject me to the game of riddles and ask me more or less specific questions, in order to get more or less specific answers as well. What I can tell you is one thing. The Territorial Planning Commission implements the law; it decides in its reports on the adequacy of amendments or general plans, if any, in its joint training with respect to TSOs and also with respect to territorial and sectoral planning. That's so clear and so crude and so concise. The reports of the Territorial Planning Commission do not marry anyone, nor do they marry the Town Hall of Donostia-San Sebastián or any other town hall, because they are based, as I said, on strict compliance with the law. The guidelines that we are applying logically are the current guidelines, Mr Becerra. These are not the guidelines that are not in force today, even if they are provisionally adopted and are intended to enter into force when they are finally adopted at the end of this year. They will then be in force, but even if they are in force, for the planning changes that were initially approved before the final approval of the Territorial Planning Guidelines, the guidelines that will be approved at the end of this year will not apply to them, because we cannot apply them to retroactive troops. In that regard, I insist, I do not believe that there should be any doubt as to what compliance and ensuring the legality of the Territorial Planning Commission, in which not only is my department, but there is a set of government departments that ensure compliance with the law and sectoral regulations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, members of Carmélo Barrio Barkio Barkal, a member of the Pional Society, a member of the Medical Department, who regulates the pharmaceutical pharmaceutical calling on the Decree of the Twenty-2019 Decree Decree over the Euskions of the Euskians, and the differences between the officers of the Basque Pharmaceans." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u83	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. On March 5, the Official Gazette of the Basque Country published Decree 29/2019, which regulates pharmacy services in senior residences. In other words, pharmacy services; warehouses located in these residences of the Basque Autonomous Community; residences of all characteristics, major, small, public, private. In any case, this issue of pharmacy services was addressed. Madam Counsellor, the critical reaction of the official schools of Basque pharmacists, that critical reaction that they have had in relation to the aforementioned decree, and that is why we do want to be explained here how this decree has been drawn up that has aroused that critical reaction, because we saw that on March 12th the leaders of the official schools of pharmacists were working hard to put on the table what they called "many doubts", "ambiguities of the decree", "incognites in the drafting of that decree", and especially the collegial officials said that the decree is not going to be better, that the regulation is maintained, that it could be drafted in other words... I mean, it generates socio-economic and personnel problems... Issues that are very striking in relation to what has to be addressed by that decree that has been published. That's why we want to know your department's opinion on this situation. In other words, it is difficult to think about the effectiveness of a normative instrument like this if it is not done by the hands of the collegial pharmaceutical organizations, which are, as we have seen, very active and, above all, and it is the fundamental element, they are strictly collaborating with the Administration. That is why we do want you to tell us why we are in this situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u85	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief physician, Mr. Barrio. Decree 29/2019 aims to regulate pharmacy services and drug storage in the elderly residences in Euskadi. And I will tell you that it is also a commitment contained in our government program, namely commitment 82: Pharmaceutical care. In its initiative number two, it reflects the need for adequate pharmaceutical care for all persons served in residences of older persons and social and health centres in the Basque Country, both public and private. I will tell you that the decree you are asking me for also implies a normative adequacy and complies with the provision contained in article 27.4 of Act No. 11/1994 of 17 June 1994 on Pharmaceutical Ordination of the Basque Country, and article 6 of Royal Decree No. 16/2012 of 20 April 2012 on Urgent Measures to Ensure the Sustainability of the National Health System, which was approved in Madrid by you. Thus, with this decree, besides the obedience of our engagements, we do as the law says. Our goal is also to give quality service to people in the provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u87	Well, thank you, counselor. It is quite clear that quality service is what we all want, and that is what is called into question by the college pharmaceutical organizations in relation to the drafting of this new decree. That is, that the service of warehouses and pharmacy in the residences will be better, that is what has been questioned, that is, to what extent they do not like it, that is, I say again, the collaboration of the professional schools of pharmacy, fundamentally, has always been very intense in relation to the Administration, and we see that a worrying gap is being opened, from our point of view, which can also affect that work of quality assistance to which you referred. To what extent they do not like the decree, which they are talking about submitting a remedy that they are now studying legally. We have seen it published in specialized information. And we are drawn to the fact that since that 12 March, when they made such mentions or criticism, when the schools made public that discrepancy with the decree, no steps have been taken to clarify that situation and to clear up doubts and incognites. We haven't seen him. That is why we are asking you this question, because we understand that there are issues to be cleared up in relation to those criticisms that the school has made. And I would like you to answer me, to answer through this interpellation to those criticisms. Have you met? have you met with the representatives of the schools, with the school organizations?, what have you moved them? I think that's important, that you speak for yourself. Because, I say again, the situation is there. That is to say, there does not seem to be any stimulus, a constructive debate that you will encourage. Of course, they will be commitments of the Government, but the commitments of the Government must be fulfilled...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u89	Mr Barrio, I insist, this decree aims to improve the safety and efficiency of the pharmaceutical care that people receive in residences. It has no mood to harm pharmacies. He doesn't have it. The only aim is to bring the pharmaceutical service in the residences into line with the regulations in force and to respond to the commitments we have made in the Department of Health, but also the outlaws and the official pharmaceutical colleges themselves, in order to develop the regulations in this area. In addition, I will remind you that this decree has counted with the pharmacy offices as one more agent of our health system, and that, unlike similar norms of other autonomous communities, the Basque decree gives them the opportunity to carry out pharmaceutical care to the residences for elderly people, both public and private, of more than 100 beds. Regarding the doubts about possible savings or how it has been realized, I will tell you that the decree has incorporated a memory that analyzes the economic aspect of the pharmaceutical service in the residences in detail, rigor and prudence, and also the impact that it can have on all those agents who intervene in the care of our patients. And you can consult him. This decree of the Basques will therefore improve security, including quality and equity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Juan Luis Urana Serano, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, is a specific plan in the Medical Department." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u91	Bakartxo Tejeria, counselor, colleagues and companions, egun on guztioi. We have recently had the opportunity to study and learn about two important documents from the Department of Health – the 2018 Health Survey Bilbao's health in figures. A Quantitative Diagnosis Without a doubt, these documents are also read by the leaders of Osakidetza. Therefore, we ask whether this knowledge of the differences in health among our population is implying, by the Department of Health and by the Directorate General of Osakidetza, specific plans for their depreciation, specific plans and specific budgets in each direction of the OSI, in each territorial area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Uria. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u93	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief of the department, Mr. Uria. In order to act on the determinants of health, it is important to promote cross-cutting policies from all departments of the Basque Government, and also from other public institutions –municipalities, outlaws...–, and that's what we're doing. As you already know, the Basque Government, based on the strategy designed in the Health Plan 2013-2020, is committed to integrating health into all its policies and, moreover, it is the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu himself who chairs and leads the steering committee of the Basque Health Plan. The cross-cutting policies we push from the Basque Government to address health inequalities and improve the quality of life of Basques and Basques are a model. I am referring to our education system, to the environmental policies we develop, to programmes for the elderly, such as Euskadi Lagunkoia, to the aid of GIR, to housing policies, to the employment policies we promote, etc. The Basque Government invests three out of four euros of its budgets in social policies aimed at improving the quality of life of all people. Moreover, Mr Uria, you will share with me that inequalities are not reduced by medicalizing the population; we must prevent inequalities in health, we must combat them from prevention and from education, mainly, but not only with health interventions, but, yes, they also intervene in the health outcomes of the population. Therefore, we must work on it from the health field, yes, but also from the government's policies as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u95	Bakartxo Tejeria, compañeros, compañeras. Actually, counselor, coinciding in speeches is a simple topic, but you have not answered the question: Are there specific plans in each direction of each OSI and in the Department of Health? In our society, in the Basque population, there are social inequalities that manifest ostensible health inequalities, unjust and preventable health inequalities. Disease, disability and death are biological facts, but they are also social facts, because not all people are affected in the same way having equal bodies. For example, an immigrant black woman living in the Bilbao neighbourhood of San Francisco, who does not have primary education and who works in the care sector or in commerce, may have a life expectancy of up to seven years less than a white woman living in Indautxu, who has higher education and who works in education. The so-called "social gradient of life expectancy" is also manifested by studying this life expectancy in populations living in different stops on the Bilbao metro, observing gradients of three, four and up to five years of difference between different localities in the same trajectory. Disease and death are facts that are conditioned by social determinants. As the counsellor has said, employment, housing, quality of work, transport, food, access to quality health services, education, culture, urban environment... They're part of those components. These social components affect quality and way of life and we study, therefore, an indicator that we call "deprivation index". The deprivation rate is a synthetic value that is close to living conditions; we know the deprivation rate by postal districts, we know the death rates by postal districts, we know the diseases by postal districts. Why does the Department of Health not assume greater leadership in the Basque Government, as the adviser has said, and why do not the Directorates-General and the Directorates-General of the integrated health organizations have specific plans and budgets to address, on the one hand, the quality of health services and investments in unequal resources, because what is equally at the starting point is to promote inequality? The only question we want to ask is whether the leadership of the Department of Health in Osakidetza and the Osakidetza OSI as a whole has to do with specific plans to correct inequalities we already know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u96	Thank you, Mr. Uria. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u97	Mr. Uria, we work every day for the health of all of us, and especially for those who are most in need of help. Don't hesitate. We've worked for many years and the medical results of the eupscal society are good. I can put to you endless examples of concrete action plans that we have been developing from the Department of Health and Osakidetza to avoid inequalities and to focus, above all, on those most disadvantaged or needing greater attention: the PADI; the SANO Strategy, for the prevention of childhood obesity; the Addiction Plan; the Minors and Alcohol Programme; local health networks; the Osasun Eskola of Osakidetza; the Strategy for Strengthening Primary Care itself, which we have at the moment under way... In addition, new professionals will go to those areas with the greatest health needs. And I could go on and on. But I repeat to you again that in order to address inequalities in health and improve the quality of life of all people, this Government acts in a cross-cutting way and with actions, from very different areas, that directly affect the reduction of inequality and in favour of greater equity. I am referring to the gender actions – which we also have specific actions within the department and Osakidetza –, the aid of the pharmaceutical co-op, the coordination between the Mental Health Network and the protected floors, the important socio-health coordination, social work, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The fifteenth point on the theme list, "Interregation, Myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Basque Group, made to the Chief of Security, from the Police and Emergency Basque Academy, and any mention of the terrorist band." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Counsellor, nearly 900 people killed by ETA; 3,500 attacks –307 of them unresolved – 864 dead and 7,000 victims; almost 5,000 acts of kale borroka... Of the dead, around 500 were members of the armed forces or of the forces and bodies and security of the State, mainly, and by this order, civilian guards, national and military police. The rest of the politicians, journalists, judges, businessmen, people passing by... 15 agents of the Ertzaintza and one more of Miñones's body were killed by ETA. The Basque Police, one of the symbols of our self-government, suffered 27 attacks by ETA between 1990 and 2011, and 1,300 attacks by kale borroka. The average macabre showed how the ertzainas faced an attack by the terrorist gang or its surroundings every week, in the toughest years there were incidents every two days. Among these acts of kale borroka we have, for example, acts like the one that attempted to burn alive several agents of the Ertzaintza in a van in Rentería and some of them suffered the sequels that they suffered and that today continue to suffer. Also the local police in Euskadi suffered in their ranks the vigour of ETA, thus increasing the number of murders between ertzainas and local police to 38. I will quote a phrase that is not mine – I open quotes –: "You cannot forget the harassment of ETA and its entire environment." These words are not mine, but they will sound to you, counselor, because they are yours. But despite this, it seems that it is forgotten or that, if it is not forgotten, it is distorted, because this Government, its Government, has tried to change the history of ETA, to put it in a way that has nothing to do with what happened. Thus, for example, they intended to inculcate the theory of conflict among Basque pupils between the ages of 15 and 18, between the fourth of the ESO and the second of the baccalaureate, in order to study in the last trimester of this course the recent history of Euskadi and the effects of terrorism through a program, Heregun, elaborated by the Basque Government. Apart from what this group has already shown, experts, historians and researchers considered that the final result was not correct. And so, for example, the philosopher and doctor of political science, Martin Alonso Zarza, said: "There is a crucial absence Why did ETA terrorists kill? What took us so long to call them 'killers'?". Others, such as María Jiménez, researcher and professor of Journalism at the University of Navarra, pointed out: "The story of the past consists not only of what is told, but also of what is omitted." And he continued to say that he drew particular attention, in that document, to the absence of references to the threatened and extortioned, to the banished or to the escorts. He pointed out that the victims closest to the position of the Basque Government were taking the floor and the most combative ones were being avoided. Another, like the doctor in History and professor of the UPV Antonio Rivera said that reading the units of Heregun generated two immediate impressions. On the one hand, a blurring of the main, a feeling that what happened is not explained, and, on the other, a coldness and lack of empathy. Well, we already see that this change in the references to ETA is not new in your government, because we have now seen the news that in the studies to the future policemen the reference to ETA is not given – that is, at least, what has been denounced – and it seems that neither on the agenda to access the academy. I'm asking you if that's the case, because I asked your department, of course, they didn't deny it in a sharp way. That is why we want to ask you today through this inquiry. And if so, it is not explicable, neither because of what the Basque country suffered because of ETA, nor because of what the ertzainas suffered because of ETA, nor because as police officers should know what was done to fight against ETA, the measures that were taken, because it can serve as a reference for other terrorisms that are still attacking. If this is the case, if it has disappeared, it is not possible to explain that what they have suffered and the consequences of ETA terrorism in society are not transferred to the academy. Do you know what those who are already ertzainas think? That not teaching this in the academy, is an absolute lack of respect for them, for their fight against terrorism and for those who were killed for this cause. Look, I will be honest with you, with this Parliament. If that were the case, if it had disappeared, I would not be surprised at the decision taken, to draw any reference from ETA and the consequences of those 40 years of terrorism. I would not be surprised, but, of course, it would bring me deep sadness, deep disenchantment to see how those with the responsibility of government in this country act so unjustly and so arbitrarily, with so much contempt for the victims of terrorism and their own obligations. If he has really disappeared, we want to ask him: Where did he disappear from? Of the two, both from the agenda and from what is then taught at the academy? Since when did he disappear? How many promotions are no longer referred to as ETA? What's the reason for the disappearance? And if you're going to tell me you're not missing, in that case, I want to ask you, "How do you show up?" In what context? Is a chapter dedicated specifically to ETA? How are those references made? Because they have local ertzainas and police who do not now have such training, and yet ertzainas and local police of previous promotions point out that they were being instructed about ETA, about the murders that had been committed, about explosive devices, about damage to vehicles and buildings; what measures were being taken to combat terrorism, the measures that the agents themselves had to take to protect themselves, the self-protection measures; the consequences that terrorism had had; they were being told about why the flame retardant suits, why the armoured cars were being used. Now they count, the students, who are told about ETA, but always unofficially, never when teaching, but at most in the cafeteria or in their personal capacity some teacher. Is this right? Because if the decision to remove any reference to ETA from the Arkaute agenda is correct, tell me what responsibility you take with the delegitimization of terrorism, what responsibility you take with that task that we have before us in society as a whole to prevent the repetition of the horrors that we have had to suffer on this earth for so long, what responsibility you take to pass on to the new generations of agents what others have done to deal with ETA terrorism, to combat it. What responsibility do you take? If it is true what has been denounced, of course, none seems to be. It seems that he chooses to look elsewhere, to pass the page, not to call things by their name, and it would produce me, as he said, a great sadness and discomfort to see how they pass over the memory of the ertzainas and the local police who were killed by ETA. What purpose do they have, if it is true that they have decided to remove the trace of terrorism from the history of the Basque Country? Why does it seem, as has been reported, that it contains civil war, Francoist repression, the Statute, but not ETA? If so, how can we ignore ETA's vigour of our democratic coexistence? How can we ignore what we all suffered and what we all suffered? Does it seem to you a minor, somewhat irrelevant issue that we have suffered from the imposition of fear of guns for 40 years? Is it possible to ignore more than 800 people who were killed by the terrorist gang? There are 300 unsolved murders of ETA, including those of Ana Arostegui and Javier Mijangos, the two ertzainas who were killed in Beasain. How are they going to solve and pursue, if they're not even told about ETA? We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u100	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u101	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok. Mrs Llanos, with regard to this question put to me by the Group of the European People's Party, I feel obliged to remind you of three questions, three aspects which, in the light of the arguments you have put forward in the very justification of the question, you are avoiding, want to avoid or want to overlook, before you speak about the subject. First of all, I must remind you that people who opt to be ertzainas and local police are elderly. They are people, many of them and they, diplomats, technicians, many with higher degrees, people, citizens and citizens who have lived together in their childhood, adolescence and youth with ETA terrorism. They have been close witnesses, on many occasions also direct witnesses of the serious consequences and, in addition, in their school curriculum they have received information and training on this issue, on ETA. But today they are also witnesses to other forms of terrorism, criminal activity, and above all, they work for public security needs, which have little to do with that dark concrete time of ETA terrorism. A time when the objectives of preserving public security in Euskadi radically interfered with the objectives of the terrorist gang. Then, you will understand that it was necessary, that training was required in tactics, in techniques to deal with that threat that spread, at all levels of risk, over the whole of Ertzaintza and over society as a whole. Fortunately, the ertzainas and the local police of these last promotions have joined this profession of public servants after ETA declared the cessation of armed activity. Now, in your selection process, in the incorporation process, you have received and are receiving another type of training, and you are integrating yourself into a radically renewed organization in your structures, into an organization that, among many other measures, has modified operational instructions, such as instruction – you will remember because we have repeated it here – number 53. In addition, they are also receiving new training in police tactics and techniques of self-protection, police techniques and tactics to deal with these new forms of crime and terrorism. Therefore, an organisation adapted to the security needs we have today in Euskadi. This brings me to a second question. We are no longer under the specific threat of ETA terrorism, but there are other risks. You should remember well because you were also in that appearance at which I presented the Ertzaintza Strategic Plan against Radical Islam and other forms of international terrorism, a plan that is directly linked to the European Union's counter-terrorism strategy, a strategy that is based on four pillars: preventing, protecting, prosecuting and responding – especially in prevention. A strategy in which Ertzaintza has a lot of accumulated experience and in which it has been a pioneer in certain aspects; for example, in the work it has been doing with vulnerable groups that are likely to be captured by radicalists and encouraged to carry out terrorist actions. This is the situation in which new generations are becoming part of Ertzaintza. This also leads me to stress something that should be taken into account, a third question: today the Ertzaintza does not prepare to deal with ETA. He had to do it for many years and, moreover, in an intense way, with many resources, with a lot of dedication, but that ended. ETA declared the cease-fire on 20 October 2011, and a year ago it was dissolved. What does persist is the police experience gained in the work carried out to make ETA disappear, because, as you say, there are investigations that are pending resolution and will follow their course, and, above all, because we must try to stay firm, try to keep the walls of containment firm so that we can prevent and combat any threat that threatens peace and coexistence in Euskadi, our peace and our coexistence. But along with this accumulated police experience, there also persists experiences of pain, experiences of suffering, and wounds that, as you know, still bleed in the spirit of relatives, companions, companions of the victims that ETA caused in the Ertzaintza, and of those who continue to fight against these physical and psychological consequences of vandalic acts, of acts of terror that have conditioned in the extreme, when they have not mortgaged even their personal and professional life. That is why I encourage you to reread the Report on Injustice suffered by the group of ertzainas and their families as a result of the threat of ETA , a report prepared by a team of the Institute of Human Rights, Pedro Arrupe, of the University of Deusto, in 2016, commissioned by the Secretary General of Peace and Co-existence. From there, Mrs Llanos, honestly, I do not know what you are looking for, or what for, in the selection processes that are now accessing the new places of agents of the basic scale of the Ertzaintza. What is wrong with the fact that from the experience gained in the fight against ETA, valid lessons have been drawn to combat from the Basque police other risks of radicalisation, terrorism or other criminal activities which attempt to break peace, coexistence, which attempt to undermine the well-being and progress of Euskadi? And that, and not another, is the orientation that an important part of the training plans that the academy provides, presents, each year, as I say, in the Governing Council. Council Rector in which they are present, in addition to the department and the academy itself, trade unions... Members of the party you represent also participated in the moment, representing institutions such as the Foral Diputación de Álava or the City Council of Gasteiz. Training plans and programmes for aspiring local police officers and for upgrading and upgrading of the active police force. Therefore, do not accuse the department, the academy or the Government of realities they do not want to recognize. For example, citizens'protection officers, both local police and Ertzaintza, regularly participate in police proceedings in the face of critical incidents of terrorist attacks. To date, more than 1,300 Ertzaintza citizen protection officers and more than 450 local police officers have been through these courses. Also for the courses of immediate response patrols created in the mobile brigade, derived precisely from that strategic plan against international terrorism and operating since 2017. Or recognize, also, that with a certain periodicity there are simulations of action in critical incidents, such as the one that was recently held here in Gasteiz in January, right on the Boulevard, with the cooperation and collaboration of the mall itself. It is clear that there are new threats; it is clear that our security requires new procedures; it is clear that everything learned is there, it is part of police knowledge; it is clear that all experiences lived, that everything learned serves and is serving for this new training, to address these new risks, these new security threats. To confuse that and try to say that you want to hide ETA's past are two very different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u102	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u103	Thank you again, Madam President. Counselor, how circumloqueous it is not to answer what I have asked you, which is very simple, very simple! What is it, does ETA appear or not appear within the agenda? If it appears, how does it appear, how did it appear before or differently? If he doesn't show up, since when does he not show up and what's the reason he doesn't show up anymore? Because the two issues are very different. One thing is that ETA no longer exists, and another thing is that ETA never existed, which are two very different things. And you have come here, not to answer exactly what we were asking you, to tell us about all the training given at the academy, which I imagine will be a lot. And it is true that there are new forms of crime, and new forms of terrorism, but precisely because there are new forms of terrorism, can we not speak clearly of ETA terrorism, of what was at that time suffering from ETA terrorism, of what was being done to combat that terrorism, of the measures that had to be taken at that time, because they can serve, as you said, from experience accumulated so far? But what an accumulated experience if you don't talk, if you don't mention ETA! And you come to say that those who now access the academy are technical graduates, that they have lived with ETA and that they know what ETA was. No, no, and unfortunately, those who had accessed before also knew perfectly well what ETA was and lived with ETA's daily terror. As I say to you, it is true that we are not now under the threat of ETA, but, indeed, ETA has existed and ETA has caused much harm to this country. And what you can't pretend to do is make ETA disappear, not talk to the ertzainas, because, moreover, as you have said, there are still unsolved crimes that have to be prosecuted. Arkaute students, how are they going to conduct an investigation later, when they are agents, against an organization that, as it no longer exists...? Well, now you'll tell me exactly what time, what chapter, and how it's referred to. And I used to talk to them before options. Unfortunately, I have to point out to you, Madam Counsellor, that you are opting for the path that on so many occasions nationalism continued when terrorism tightened more, in which you have weighed more or weigh more political calculations, party interests. And they are once again above what belongs to them as rulers, as leaders of the institutions, which is, above all, the delegitimization of terrorism. Look, ETA was defeated by Basque society, by all the Basque citizens who knew how to plant its face. And by obviating, as you do, the terrorism of ETA, because you have not told us in what or how, if you have a specific chapter, well, because by doing that, you are disregarding the tession and democratic courage of those Basques who fought against ETA. The fat broth is being made for those who are now in charge and who intend to whiten ETA, who are sitting in this Parliament precisely with that mandate, with the mandate to whiten that terrorist trajectory. True, ETA no longer exists as a terrorist organization, but the cost has been very high, very painful, its consequences continue to be there, they continue to be in the Ertzaintza, in the relatives of the murdered, in the relatives, as he said, of Ana Arostegui and Javier Mijangos, whose crimes are still unresolved. And we have an obligation to point out the responsibilities of these sufferings, to transfer to future generations of Basques that ETA was an organization of murderers that took the lives of many people ahead. We are not going to waive that obligation, although it is clear that some do because it is clear that it bothers them. What is clear is that it is not going to help to bear witness to the unjust and unjustifiable nature of ETA terrorism because it is caught in the middle of the street, that obligation is not assumed and they turn their faces elsewhere. I am not surprised by this lack of determination, but I am saddened, because it highlights once again its lack of clarity to face the blackest page of our terrorism. Whether you want to delete it or not, the page exists, and I hope that, if it has been deleted to ETA, you will rectify and include it again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Llanos. Time is up. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u105	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs Llanos, "deception" and "sadness" is what is happening to me here, trying – not trying – to accuse this government of trying to delegitimize ETA's terrorism, accusing it of laundering ETA's terrorist action, when you know all the work that is being done from the Memory Institute, all the commitment that this government has made, precisely because of that right to truth, justice and reparation for the victims. I am truly sad to have to go back to this kind of debate. But in any case, and going back to what he was bringing us, I hope you're not asking us here now to train ETA specialists, because you're looking for and searching through the multiple selection processes of Ertzaintza, local police, National Police, Civil Guard, which will never find a specific subject that tells and narrows the history of ETA as such. I insist, we are in a new time; the incorporation of these new generations of Ertzain responds to this new time, to this time of generational renewal, to a time when structures and training, operational tactics and many other issues affecting Ertzainthza are new, they have to be new, because this is required by the security needs we face and the services we offer today. And because this is also required by certain risks of terrorism and organized crime, present and emerging in a world without borders. I repeat again: the experience gained in trying to eradicate ETA terrorism was, as a whole, that of Ertzaintza. Also the one that remains an important asset, an important and essential value in his intelligence and in his ability to become a police officer. Also because there are investigations, as you said, in which the Ertzaintza is competent and which remain open for the clarification of those crimes that, to date, have not been resolved, investigations that remain open. Work continues, and they continue to train themselves to deepen these investigations. But alongside these issues, which correspond to the police function, it is the memory, I have told you before, of those who were the victims of the ETA attacks that remains alive, with force, in the Ertzaintza, in the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies and also in the Department of Security. To a large extent, and I would like to acknowledge this from this stand, for the commendable work being done by the Association of Ertzaines and Family Victims of Terrorism, Aserfavite. It was with Aserfavite that we agreed in 2013 that the first Sunday of June of each year was the day of remembrance, the day of recognition, the day of homage to the victims of ETA of the Ertzaintza. This year it is our duty to celebrate it in Arkaute and, as every year, will also participate family members, close to the victims, and also, on this occasion, as on other occasions, will preside over the event lehendakari. But on this occasion, the event, moreover, will have a new content, we will celebrate it in a special way: as announced last year the lehendakari, next June 2nd, the first Sunday of June, we will inaugurate a permanent space of remembrance to all the victims of ETA in the Ertzaintza, in the Museum of the Basque Police, in Arkaute, a space of remembrance and permanent homage that tries to revive the spirit of the Hemen Gaude resistance movement Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u106	Eskerrik asko Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpology, the lawyer of the Basque Society, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, made for the head of the Security Department, about the edge vehicles." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. "The fleet of vehicles of the Ertzaintza has been replaced satisfactorily." That was the sentence, the sentence with which you closed the answer to the question I asked you in November, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, about what was going on, what were the complaints, what were the reasons, whether or not there was reason for those complaints to be founded by the new patrollers that the department purchased in a multimillionaire contract. I do not know what brings satisfaction to the Counsellor, nor whether that satisfaction that moved us from the rostrum in November is keeping her today and whether she is still happy with that performance today. We support it in the renewal of the fleet of vehicles of the Ertzaintza. It is a contract of more than 37 million euros, a financial lease at four or five years – it seems to me to be five years –; it is a very important expenditure, you have committed a very important expenditure of this government in a need that our police had. Until then, we all agreed – we even made an amendment to renew the fleet of Minones's body vehicles as well, and you have carried it out correctly. I asked him why we had complaints from agents who, in their own right, had contacted us and told us that, in fact, those vehicles were not the most suitable. And you told me yes, you insisted: "renovation has occurred satisfactorily." He told us that the vehicles had passed the ITV – I'm glad–; he told us that they had the necessary certificates of industry because they had made modifications on the basic or commercial support that is sold to all citizens – we are glad too–; he told us that they met each and every one of the technical requirements of the contract "We're also happy, that's fine," but he didn't tell us that those technical requirements were not the most appropriate. And when I asked her, "it's that there are agents who complain," you said to me, "yes, we have about 20 complaints," and a comment that seemed a little ugly to me, counselor, because you say that those complaints were photocopies of a certain union, and I think it's that confrontation, that little war that you're holding with representatives of the Ertzaintza agents in time already, an ancient confrontation, and I said, "Well, there's been some problem and this is a union toy." Well, that's where I stayed, and you convinced me, counselor, you convinced me. I said, "Well, it will be true." But six months and six months later it turns out that, apparently, you had not given all the information, because I doubt very much, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, that you go up to the rostrum and do not tell us the truth – not to my question, you can deceive me, but when you answer a Member of Parliament in this House you are answering the whole House, not an individual question, you are answering society – and you that day, after telling us that everything was phenomenal, you did not tell us, surely because you had not informed her, that a month earlier you had already hired, to your finger, a minor contract, a report on the ergonomics of the vehicles of the Ertzaintza fleet. He did it in October. And it's curious. He had 20 photocopied complaints from a union – we already know which one – but he didn't tell us that, apart from those complaints, another union, the majority – well, several unions in fact, but specifically the majority – had gone to the Labour Inspectorate, his neighbor's seat, and that the Labour Inspectorate later gave him a good earshake. First it was the report on the ergonomics of the vehicles hired a doctor, an expert in occupational health, an expert in ergonomics, which already said that those vehicles had things that were quite improveable. The department's response has basically been that every fine time – I think it's every hour – exercise 20 minutes of stretching. Take it now! To be so good cars, why do agents need to stretch? If everything is so well done, Mrs. Beltran of Heredia, why do you have to hire a report from an ergonomist? Because you already knew then that Erne had gone to the Labour Inspectorate and that the Labour Inspectorate was going to face you that there were two rather serious violations of workers' rights? The first was because there were no workers' health representatives in the trade unions at the time when the conditions of the job, such as the purchase of vehicles, were changed. They were not consulted. And the Occupational Risk Prevention Act of 95 obliges you to do so. And the department has had to remind him, and he has asked him to do so on successive occasions, to count on those delegates of occupational risks, of occupational health. And the other thing he says to you is that you have to make quite a few changes in the vehicles, in the same way that you have the opinions of the ergonome that you hired: that if you change the seats of the cars – how expensive, if they are so good, why do you have to change the seats to the cars? – that if you have to cut the frames in the vehicles, they have to carry a mammoth to protect the space detainees from the space occupied by the agents – car, because it doesn't make much sense, if they are so good, why do you have to cut that mammoth – that if you have to change the sheet that separates the luggage carriers because it prevents internal visibility, you can't use the rear-view mirrors... If the cars are so good, why do they make those recommendations, the professionals, the ones who know about it? Why didn't you tell us all that, counselor? That's my question. I do not understand why the department commits almost 20 million euros –19 and peak, I think they are – in the purchase of these 300 vehicles and then it turns out that they are dangerous to the health of workers. This is stated by the Labour Inspectorate in the interim report. I'm glad you have it. He could have told us when I asked him in November that they were working on the matter; we would have saved ourselves having to ask him today. I do not know whether the report is definitive or not definitive, whether it has been corrected or not corrected, but in the draft that I have read, of course, it does say that changes must be made. We have to make changes in order to order the work so that the higher or more voluminous agents, let's say it finely, those who have an abdominal perimeter a little wider, change to the larger vehicles. It is curious because there are thousands of agents who pass through these cars over a month: two agents, 300 cars; two agents per day in each turn, plus every turn, plus the supplement in a month, are thousands of agents who ride in these cars. Can only the low Ertzaintza agents be assembled? In the next call, Mrs. Counsellor, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, in the next call you are going to make for the Arkaute Police and Emergency Academy, will you set a maximum height to be able to continue using the cars? Or those who are a little bigger or a little more stuffed, like me, have to use old vehicles? That is the solution they have given since the Ertzaintza organization. It is not up to me, Madam Councillor, that all of these issues should be a source of satisfaction to you. And then, for that reason, I have asked you two very simple, very simple questions, you can answer them or do what you have done with my partner, Mrs Llanos, and talk about another topic when I come up to the rostrum. The first is why the representatives of the workers, delegates of occupational health, were not counted when choosing the vehicles, why not; and what measures the department is taking to ensure that, as long as the financial lease of these 300 cars last, they do not pose a serious risk to the workers' occupational health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u109	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I will answer you with the seriousness that you deserve and that demands this Parliament, despite the mockery, irony, or cynicism that you have used here, underestimating the work of many professionals behind this recruitment and underestimating the work of many professionals, such as those who have been able to produce this ergonomic study. But well, let's make a quick review of what was the renovation of the vehicles that has taken place since I'm a counselor. In 2016, we renewed the 600 vehicles without a badge through the rental system, a renovation that affected the mobile park they use for police activities that do not require vehicles with visible badges. With this we renew almost 50% of this type of vehicle, with brands and standard models on the market. Following that renovation, in 2017 we started three renovation processes. The first was aimed at the renewal of the patrol cars, the most urgent. This contract involved the leasing of 150 units of patrol cars with cabins for the transfer of detained persons, to which we usually refer as "vehicles with mampara", and another 150 units that went without mampara. This recruitment process was approved on May 17. The second leasing process was to acquire 70 vans with corporate police badges adapted to the functions of traffic units and investigative certificates. This second recruitment process was also approved by the Governing Council on 27 July 17. And the third leasing procedure was approved by the Governing Council on 8 August, also on 17 August, and was intended for the purchase of 100 all-terrain vehicles. We are therefore talking about 470 new vehicles. As you know, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, these tenders were published, as is mandatory, immediately after being approved by the Governing Council, they were published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country and in the OJE. No one resorted to these solicitation documents, these contracting documents, and the proceedings went forward. No one put in a remedy, not even those unions that have then complained; nor did they resort to these specifications. And in November, as you recalled, when I introduced the draft budgets, with the lease items included, all these items were included in that project. At that time, in fact, by an amendment of the People's Party, this item was increased by 500,000 euros, to acquire vehicles for the mines of Álava. As a result of this expansion, more vehicles could be purchased, which were destined for the Minones Service. And so the renewal of vehicles, an important renovation, a renovation that was pressing for the Ertzaintza, a renewal that is never simple, that has its complexity because, precisely, as you have recalled, you have to adapt and condition those market-approved vehicles, standard vehicles, the same ones that we can acquire any of the ones we are here today in the full room, but we have to adapt them to the functions and tasks of exclusively police use, and that has its demands and its complexities. And something that seemed so strange to you that I said – "the ITV has passed and the transformations are approved" – for look at it, because it doesn't always happen in all the police forces when the transformations of the vehicles are made. In any case, it is not easy to reconcile police operational requirements with the physical, hygienic and ergonomic safety conditions of users. However, the experience, as I have told you before, of the department's contracting bodies in this area is extensive. In this recruitment, technical agents of economic management and the area of recruitment, commanders and agents of the Ertzaintza, technical services of maintenance and workshops of the Ertzaintza itself participated... That is why we can say that the final result of those 470 vehicles, of those 1,070 vehicles purchased, has been frankly positive and satisfactory, I would like to reiterate to you again. All the transformations that took place obtained the approval of the ITV, all of them were approved. The result is remarkable. Of those 300 renewed cars of the Seat León model, half go without a cabin for transporting detainees; the other half, about 150 go with that cabin with the mammary. In addition, the Ertzaintza, today, has another 144 patrol cars of the ancient Seat Altea with mampara – Seat Altea, which, despite the few differences in capacity, did not generate any problems and therefore can continue to be used in those more extreme or needy cases that they can demand–; has 214 all-terrain vehicles, 100 of them (practically 50%) recently acquired; a total of 435 vans – of them, 70, Mercedes Vito newly acquired –... In short, I would like to say that in the Ertzaintza mobile park there are 2,300 or so vehicles and 46% are vehicles that are less than three years old. Therefore, vehicles in the park of the Ertzaintza – in the mobile park – exist, there are to meet all needs, and even all personal circumstances. And I think that citizenship appreciates it because it sees it on our streets, and is aware of the investment effort that has been made, and also appreciates it by all the Ertzaintza workers. Although we must also recognize that we have room for improvement and that we still have things to do. We still need to renew part of the rest of the fleet of vehicles. And what many of us value as positive, it is true that others did not value it that way, and the unions – a certain union, indeed – resorted to the Bizkaia Labour Inspectorate in connection with the acquisition, in particular, of the Seat Lion with mammary, of the acquisition of those 150 vehicles. And today we have a definitive requirement of the Labour Inspectorate, a requirement that has the date of arrival on April 25 – it is recent – and, on the one hand, that requirement sets us a commitment to take preventive, technical and organisational measures, those that are coming from, and that are viable, to ensure that in the transport of these detained persons there is no risk to health or safety, neither of the drivers nor of the people who move. It sets out six months to adopt those technical measures that – I insist, and the requirement says so – those technical measures that are viable, that are feasible. In any case, this requirement of the Labour Inspectorate in no case says that these vehicles pose a risk to the safety of workers or to the safety of users. And, in any case, logically, it also proposes that organisational measures be adopted, which are the easiest to adopt, and which, of course, respond to what is natural logic. These are organizational measures that are being taken, that are being implemented, that are being taken in each of the police stations, so that those people who, as you have said, may have a higher percentage and, therefore, may be more uncomfortable with the vehicle with purchased mammary, can use any of the other vehicles that exist in the Ertzaintza mobile park. In any case, as I say, it is a requirement of the Labour Inspectorate that technical measures that are feasible be taken. We are analysing it, we will appreciate it in detail, to see what implications it entails, and, within this six-month time frame, we will study, as I say to you, the feasibility of all the measures that are proposed or that can be taken, because our aim is for our workers to do so in the best conditions, too, of comfort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u110	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u111	Madam Counsellor, I am rather socratic, because I take it that the cynical thing you ask me about the Greek philosophical school. Won't you be calling me "disgusted liar", which is the other meaning that prevents the dictionary of the Spanish Royal Academy? I am more socratic, simpler, much simpler, with very clear and very simple arguments, such as the accounts I have made, to which he has forgotten to answer me again. Well, he has one shift left, and I do not lose hope that in the second intervention he will answer me. I haven't told you about safety issues in the Ertzaintza vehicles, no. I told you about occupational health problems. The law is about occupational safety and health, but in this particular case, I'm not talking about accidents, I'm talking about injuries that the agents who use those vehicles may have. When I was listening to him, I remembered a movie called Some Good Men. Why were rights not respected? Why weren't health delegates called? You tell me you brought the game here. Of course, of course he brought us the game. And he told us he was going to buy the cars, but he'll understand that when we see an economic amount, we don't know that he's going to choose small cars. I didn't put that in the game, I put the amount. And he told us it was a financial lease and we thought it was a great idea. If no one disputes that with you. The only thing I ask you is why 300 patrol vehicles were chosen in which the agents put their occupational health and mobility at risk to enter, to exit, speed, etc. That they cannot easily use their weapons, their defenses, because it turns out that in the seat they do not fit with a bulletproof vest, with a strap on, with a belt, with the support of the gun, the defense, the walkie-talkie You go out on the street and ask if they haven't told you in the apartment. Why were the trade union health delegates not counted on to take out this award or to award directly to the company to which it has been made? Why didn't you count on them if the law requires it? Is it a problem with the unions? Because it's the workers who pay it, it's not the unions. And the department pays for it and the citizens pay for it. Are you going to take seriously the recommendations made to you by the Labour Inspectorate? Are you going to take the measures, are you going to get started? Or do we have to ask him in a few months to see if he's done anything and he's going to tell us again that everything is okay, that everything is fantastic, that we have 2,000 cars and that most of them are fine? If I haven't asked you about the other thousand peak vehicles of the Ertzaintza! I already know that they are very good, that they are fantastic – especially those made in Vitoria – but I have asked you for 300 that they do not work, that they have problems. And that's not photocopies made by a union the complaints that have come to you, which is a complaint from the Labour Inspectorate, and you didn't tell us in November. Didn't you know that or didn't you want to tell us, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u113	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you come here and it looks like we've bought small little cars I insist, to make it clear. In 2018 and in the first months of 2019, we renewed more than 54% of the fleet of vehicles. Do you know how many of these inspections have been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate? About 150 wearing mammoths, 150. The experience of the contracting bodies of the department and of Ertzaintza itself, as I have told you before, in this type of acquisitions has been decisive and has made it possible for us to have a solvent mobile park, in order to offer citizens an agile service, a service suitable for security. We will also respond to those requirements of the Labour Inspectorate with regard to the Seat Lion with mampara within that six-month period that has established us. In fact, we are already studying all the measures that, as the Labour Inspectorate says, are viable and feasible. Its feasibility will be studied. And about the requirement in which you insist me to participate and consult the legal representatives of the workers on the Committee on Safety and Health, we will also study and carefully evaluate how to carry out that requirement, the exercise of that right. Because, the truth is, this is a new situation, which we are faced with, which has no precedent. The purchase of vehicles has never been to the Prevention Committee. Yes, those materials that are considered of individual protection, which logically has to go to that committee, but never before, the purchase, the purchase of vehicles has gone to that Committee on Occupational Safety and Health. But I insist that we study carefully all these implications, we will consider how to apply those requirements of the Labour Inspectorate. In any case, it is appropriate to contextualize, because we have to see what the dimension of the problem is. As I said before, we are talking about that in the Seat Lion, the distance (...), the distance between the belt of the driver and the clutch or accelerator is just two centimeters shorter than in the Seat Altea. I mean, this, my finger, that's the difference. Second, that the ergonomic study, which was actually carried out by an expert in occupational medicine, besides cataloguing the cars as "vehicles of excellence", "vehicles of excellence", makes clear that all the problems identified in the Seat Lion are in the range of a "light discomfort" – so defines, discomfort And third, that you better understand that level of discomfort As you will understand, with this situation, Mr Ruiz De Arbulo, a problem which, in accordance with the requirements of the Labour Inspectorate, can be solved in an easy way, as I have said before, by applying and using common sense on a day-to-day basis when distributing and assigning vehicles, an issue which is already being realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u114	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors to the Chief of Security, concerning the damage inflicted by the Foam Rockets." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. On April 13th, Víx was in a protest against the right-wing side of Bilbon, because of the response of the Mobile Brigade of the Border, a young woman, Anichma Peña, was seriously wounded. Anek didn't take any trouble, there wasn't any trouble at the time where Ane was, but a borderin took foamco. You told us the other day, Mrs. Beltrán De Heredia, foamese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u116	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán De Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u117	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. That's right, Mr. Azuga, some of the incidents that occurred on the 13th of April at Bilbon were serious. It wasn't just peaceful protest meetings. The incidents that took place on 13 April in front of the Euskalduna Palace, in the middle of the election campaign, on the occasion of the Vox rally, were, unfortunately, more than peaceful acts of protest, as you mentioned in the question. We know that among the people who concentrated there were many people, many people, who went to protest and who protested peacefully. But it is also true and true that others prevented this from happening, because the truth is that there were people who acted violently, who caused public disorder, people who endangered the safety of people attending the rally and other events that were going to take place in the Euskalduna, people who even came to attack one of the attendees of that election, who assaulted and wounded Ertzaintza agents who at the time were trying to ensure the normal development of the events around the Euskalduna. It is in this context that the performance of the Ertzaintza must be placed, and in that context the fact that a young woman was injured in the jaw, as you have said here, must also be placed. Therefore, I immediately requested that everything that has happened be investigated and that is what is being done now, that is what is being done from the very beginning. The Ertzaintza Internal Affairs Service from the very beginning is carrying out this investigation, a thorough investigation, a detailed investigation into the circumstances in which all these events occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u118	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u119	Well, Ane participated peacefully in that demonstration and if you are not able to discern who is doing it peacefully and who is not, because we have a real problem, because what we are facing is a victim created by Ertzaintza by an action that we consider disproportionate. I would have liked you to give us explanations about the technical specifications of this material that you are using – about the energy, the speed, the ability to cause damage you have, at what distance... – because I also take it asking you since 2014 and you don't want to give me this data, and we have to look for them. In the report on the BT and SIR-X projectiles, which are the ones you are using, we can read that "less than 30 meters, with an energy of 122 July, can cause serious injuries to people, among others, spleen, liver or heart burst, chest trauma, internal tearing, bone rupture, among them, skull fractures." And these are the lethal effects of this material you're using. Now, actually, a jaw has broken, but I wonder if it had hit 10 centimeters above, only 10 centimeters above, if we weren't meeting in a new Cabacas case. That's my concern, to see if with this material, with this material that can break the skull, we could be in cabbas. With this projectile of foam These launchers don't cause intimidating noise. I mean, people don't tend to lean down, just as this explanation has also been given. The young lady didn't crouch. He received a direct shot, a tense shot, directed to the face, as we have seen in these photographs. There is another parallelism that I also want to find in the Cabacas case, Cabacas case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u120	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u121	Esan said, Yellow Arzuaga, hasieratik-hasieratik ari race ikertzen egun hartan Bilbon Euskalduna Jauregiaren aurrean eman ziren gertakariak. But it seems you have already done all the research, all the exhaustive analysis, you have the conclusions and it does no good all the work that is being done, comprehensive work, detailed work to determine what the circumstances are and evaluate what exactly the facts were. You say that this person, this girl, this young girl, suffered these wounds and that she was the cause, the culprit and the responsible Ertzaintza. But there is one thing you deliberately, surely, and that is that there were many disorders, there were acts of violence. Acts of violence, incidents being investigated, both the acts of violence that took place around that Vox rally and also in that concentration that Ernai had made of acts of protest. The investigation is under way. Public disorder and acts of violence were indeed serious. Proportional action was caused by such acts of violence, by such acts of vandalism. Police action was proportional to the attempt to address the violent events that were taking place and was appropriate to the circumstances in which they were taking place. Instruction 74, which regulates the use of lanzabolas, is very explicit about this use. All the regulations it contains are aimed, precisely, at avoiding or minimizing the unwanted consequences for people's lives and integrity. Agents are familiar with the rules and have specific training in the use of these anti-disturbing materials.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u122	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The 18th point in the subject list: "Ask me, Maider Ottamo Tolosa EH Collectors to the Chief of Job and Justice, about the intermediary of Osalan's Portal Authority." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u123	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Before we go into the subject, I'd like to remind you that on April 28, it was the International Day of Work Security and Health, but if we think of nothing to celebrate, at least a little. We wish to express our deepest sorrow to all workers who have suffered some kind of labor or disease, and especially to all the workers who have died. And entering into the subject today, we asked Mrs. Tapia to give her her opinion of what was going on in Pasadena on April 5th. He said that we were in front of a work conflict, and the administrations were, of course, the harbors of the United States, and the President of the Passaian docks, in his own words, "to recover the air and to repair things." He also said that the President of the docks had asked for the intermediary of Osalan and had entered the harbour of Labla. The last words of Mrs. "I think the decision has been taken aback." But you know better than I do that was not a good decision. You know, as President of the Portuguese Council declared that this is not the jurisdiction of Osalan. We are in the presence of a trial of pursuit, not as one wishes to vacate it, in the presence of a battle of work, and in order to find a solution for this serious accusation, Osalan has no right to remedy it. So what do you think of Osalan's work as repairing the harbor authorities in Pasadena?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u124	Thank you, Madam Mount. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Otamendi, first of all, I must make it clear to you that, while the Department of Labour and Justice has competence in mediation in situations of discrepancy that could be given in collective bargaining processes – whenever the parties, trade unions and employers, so request – it is clear that the issue before us today does not fall within that context and, in any case, Osalan would not be the recipient of that demand. It will allow me, Your Honor, in my reply to what I have been asked and what is our intervention in this matter concerning the Port Authority of Pasaia. I will be brief and concise in my answer, for as you rightly say in the justification for your question and as you have said here, on 5 April Councilwoman Tapia gave her her opinion, the Councilwoman clarified the situation perfectly and made a diagnosis of it. He also expressed to him the will of the Basque Government to resolve the issue, and it was in this context that the request to Osalan had been made. Indeed, on 4 April, at the office of the Osalan Territorial Centre in Gipuzkoa, a letter was received which had been sent by e-mail on the 1st day of the same month, which stated: "For the present, as president of the Harbour Authority of Pasaia, I request the technical assistance of Osalan in the protocol, research of psychosocial type in progress. This investigation affects me and six other Port Authority employees. Given the current configuration of the mechanisms we can apply, we need the assistance of your organization, in order to be able to have all the guarantees and your experience in this regard." This is the request made to us, and that is the area to which we are circumscribed; that is, to provide technical advice on the psychosocial protocol of the Harbour Authority of Pasaia. It is therefore clear that Osalan is not exercising any mediation work in any conflict that may be taking place in the Port of Pasaia. Work is currently under way on an exclusively technical response to demand within the framework of the functions assigned to the Osalan autonomous body. A purely technical advisory report to the preventive organization adopted by the Harbour Authority is being prepared in relation to the design of tools in the field of psychosocial risks, specifically in the field of so-called protocols of harassment at work. In conclusion, I am not going to give any opinion, nor am I going to make any assessment of the possible situations that could have arisen in the Port of Pasaia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u126	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u127	Thank you. Mrs. San José, I know Osalan won't work for the intermediary. That's why I asked you a question. This is not Osalan's jurisdiction, and therefore, as I may say, linking the Taps to what I have said, I have given you the question. As you have stated, Osalan's work will be limited to the update of that protocol, to the update of that protocol against the currently active persecutions. Thus the work of Osalan will be limited, but the Portuguese command in Pasadena has a protocol which is accepted in October 2017, and will certainly have an aspect of improvement, because it is always better than that, but in this protocol it is clear what is understood as persecution and how to behave in the presence of these persecutions. Is this the solution to which it is to be given? Protocol update? We are on the verge of a serious charge on workkeeping. We don't think any of us are reasonable that the President of the Portuguese authorities who has been accused of being the president of the charges-the man who is conducting the expedition directly with Osalan designing a new protocol. We're talking about a formal complaint introduced by the four members of the board of the board against the President, and the President can't be until he is a part of it. Does Osalan join with the security of the President of the docking board with the need to change the work management protocol that has been accepted in 2017? Is it possible to change protocol and action rule with reverse effects? We think the President is obstructing the tramitation of the accused with his own conduct, which is very serious. The only thing I expect from the port of Passaia is to return immediately to this cruel situation and find a solution in a dignified manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u128	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u129	Mrs Otamendi, I can only reiterate myself in my initial reply, and that is that Osalan is actively working on what is really his responsibility, which is the advice for the implementation of the measures, the most effective tools for solving the problem. Once that tool is defined, which is supposed to be the most effective tool, it will be the competence of those who are responsible for putting it into operation, and of course for implementing it effectively. And that is what we do, of course: to respond to the demand made to us according to our competences, which are nothing more than to provide the best tool for resolving the conflict that has been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u130	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, the mediator of not fulfilling the rights of the workers of the Judiciary Service." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u131	Señora consej, good morning. We have been asking you in this plenary for more than a year why the award form of the Restorative Justice Service did not include the obligation to subrogate workers. You claimed, on that occasion, that you had no obligation to collect this subrogation because it was a new service, and you did so knowing that it was not true – as we told you on that occasion – because it is the same service, with another name, and therefore the right of subrogation must be respected, and, above all, you should have tried to respect the rights of the workers and prevent some from going to the street. You've done the opposite. We warned you that you were going to leave qualified professionals on the street that you yourself had described as excellent professionals. And indeed, several of them have stayed on the street and, in addition, in the worst ways: without proper notice, sending the Ertzaintza when they were going to the offices to pick up their things and between unsubstantiated accusations of wanting to take information about the work done so far. We have now heard court rulings on the dismissals of these workers and they have been very clear: the Restorative Justice Service is the same service that was previously called "Judicial Mediation". The same. Moreover, the judgements themselves assume that you are currently doing the same service and that you have only changed the name. In three sentences, in three out of three. Just what we said in this Parliament more than a year ago and which you denied. This is the same service and, therefore, the specification had to have collected the right of subrogation. You should have protected the rights of these workers. Instead, he did the opposite and lied, because he knew perfectly well that it was the same service. For this reason, we ask you, why did you fail to subdue the workers? why have you allowed these workers to end up on the street and other workers, even if they are in the new company, to be worse off?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u132	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u133	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernández, you raise two very different questions in your question which require a specific answer. On the one hand, it questions, once again, the consideration of the Restorative Justice Service as a new service of this Administration; and, on the other hand, it addresses the issue of subrogation of the persons performing their professional work in the Intrajudicial Mediation Service. I have repeatedly explained in this and other forums the difference and different objectives of the current Restorative Justice Service and its predecessor, the Intrajudicial Mediation Service. I have argued the importance and opportunity to offer our judicial system the possibility of moving forward and overcoming simple mediation with the inclusion of techniques, such as circles and conferences, which, in line with what is being advocated by various international bodies, involve the incorporation into the process of those affected by a crime or conflict of other persons or groups apart from the victim and the victim. That is why we called for the competition of the new Restorative Justice Service, which was in fact awarded to the company Irse Euskadi. With regard to the subrogation of the persons who carried out the intra-judicial mediation service and who had contractual relations with the company Adosten, in the case to which you refer, under subcontracting, I have also explained the reasons why the Administration was not obliged, in this case, to require the company providing the new service. However, in order to comply with the non-legislative proposal adopted by the Commission on Labour and Justice, we established contact with the contracting company to ensure that, without altering its organizational rights and to acquire the greatest technical capacity, most of the persons who had been hired in the previous service would become part of the new team. You know perfectly well, Mr Hernández, that the objective has been achieved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u134	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Hernandez jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u135	I do not question whether it is a new service, Madam Counselor, is that the courts have said so. It's not just that I question it, but there are three court rulings that say it's exactly the same service with another name. What we told him on that occasion. And I don't think the goals have been met, when there are street workers, professional workers who had been working for 10 years and whom you described as excellent professionals. But I don't think you're going to give me today the real reasons why these workers ended up on the street. I think you are not going to answer me because you will not admit that you have lied to cover up a pile of irregularities in this matter; I think you are not going to answer me so as not to recognise a mismanagement in the process of awarding this service by this department controlled by the Socialist Party; I think you are not going to answer me because it was about directing the award to create a private monopoly for the management of justice-related services in Basquedi, and I think it is not going to answer me because it was about leaving out some annoying workers for you, because of your knowledge of bad practice in time by those responsible for this service. There are other workers who are in the new contract, and we are happy about it, and they are not subrogated. On the other hand, there are certain workers who are not, and we think it is because they were annoying for this little boy. We sincerely think about it after having studied well what has happened and been prudent for more than a year. And we think this is serious, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u136	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u137	Well, Mr Hernandez, no irregularities, no mismanagement, no directing the award, nor of course getting rid of uncomfortable workers. I have to tell you that the court ruling to which you are referring corresponds to a claim that had three pretensions. Two of them have been rejected: the one that tried to prove that the employer was the Government and the one that suggested that there was a succession of companies. The accepted route is that of conventional subrogation. And the judicial ruling is mainly based on the fact that the same protocols are being used as in the previous Intrajudicial Mediation Service. I recognize that this is the case, but it is due not to the continuity of service, but to a transitional and short-term situation which is resolved and which I am pleased to explain to you. At the time of the signing of the new contract, the Department's Directorate of Justice took the decision to present and agree on the new protocols that include new circle and conference techniques to the rest of the operators, such as the Government Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, the Office of the High Prosecutor and the body of lawyers of the Administration of Justice. It was rigorous to do so in this way given the transcendence of the measure. To this end, a joint commission was set up between the four parties involved, which has completed its contribution analysis work at the end of March. On the basis of this work, the Director of Justice signed on 17 April an instruction that sent to the service manager to choose the cases that could be dealt with as circles and conferences. Before selecting the above cases and applying the techniques of the new protocol, it will be sent to this Parliament and published on the website justizia.eus, which will be done immediately. As for the judicial ruling, Irse Euskadi will appeal against it on the basis of the new situation, and, in the way this affects the department, we will join it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-03.u138	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-six.
