ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I warn you that the eighth point is left for another. First point in theme list: "The Bill of Confederation of the Confederation of Unity Committee, Lovene Ipiñazar Miranda, Mien Galástegui Oyarzábal, Andder Rodriguez Lejarz, Diana Gold Herrera and Ibon San Saturino Murua, on the equality of the legislative members. Discipline and final resolution. Do any of the members of the board want to do or do anything about it? Some congressman? We'll simply vote for the Bill of the Union Committee, except for the congresses that relate to the judgment. We can vote for the rest of the congress. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 64; the supporters 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0; 0; Abspentsion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u1	So unanimously the judgment is accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Exquisition of the Inadequacy Committee, made on the state of compatibility of the Euskal Radio National Administration candidate. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and, if it be so, the naming of a member of that council. Any members of the board? Some group? So that's all we're going to vote for. The resolution of the union committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters, 69; the opposites, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u2	So the judgment has been accepted. After we have accepted the nomination, we will either select a member or start the denomination procedure. According to the article of the 204.6 Rule of the Basque Parliament, each member of the legislature is in five minutes' time. Do you think any of the teams would like to take the word? No. According to the article 96.3.b of the ruler, the choice will be made by cards. However, considering other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Do any members of the legislature interfere? No. So, Mr. Oscar Torres Lavid is labeled a member of the Basque Radio Country Administration Council. Third point in theme list: "The change of the gass that cause the effect of the heat. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, you have the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u3	Good morning, everyone. I want to thank you, of course, who made this deal possible. It wasn't easy, but it was possible. Today this legislation will declare a climate emergency situation and consequently a lot of things would have to change. It's good news to our team, progress. But if today doesn't come with a deep transformation, it won't be useful. Although it has been a great deal with difficulty and much later than was necessary, the ecological crisis, and the climateal emergency which is the most violent of all, has reached the centre of the political stage, and has remained. It is not the only height, but the climate alarm has already begun to be felt by the increase of fire, floods, droughts, and hurricanes, or by the increase of the tides of the sea, and has become more general. It's logical, because climate emergency isn't a environmental problem, it's a primary social and economic problem. It's not the one on the planet. For the planet, what's going on is a simple adaptation process until you're looking for a new balance. It's happened a lot in the history of the planet. What has changed is that we have created the current imbalance with our inclinations, especially by the burning of fossil resources. And the balance that will come will be warmer, according to the inclination. It doesn't matter if two, three, four, five, or six degrees get hot, it'll keep turning. Not us, just us degrees and dezima. A world-wide challenge, a challenge shared, but even a popular challenge, and a people who have been enriched by much inclination, have a special responsibilities as do ours. As the climate alarm has been due to all our activities, the political policy surrounding the climate has been an historic mistake in placing them in the forgotten environmental department without power and budget, as the results show. An emergency climate, in short, is not a sectorial system of environments; it is a matter which demands a strong enterprise and a political centrality. The ecological crisis, anyway, has not reached the center of the political platform from day to day. It took decades to get to: As we walked in the wrong direction, our voices were raised, the scientists who published disturbing reports with small speakers who accused local abuses and massacres, and, by the way, many of them have been murdered without mercy in the South of the world. And it has all been necessary to create a consciousness, but tired of having spoken of the summits of the summits, but not being able to solve the problems, as Luther had put his thesis into the church, a generation of very young men has plunged its truth in a rage, but with a simple formula; "You are stealing our future." "You're stealing our future." And with this simple truth of the boatman, they not only catalyze the unrest with political inaction and begin to point out responsible, but they reveal that the king was naked. It turns out that our development, contrary to all official propaganda, was not sustainable. Because sustainable development was based on a single idea: the use of sufficient resources without compromising the resources of subsequent generations. It was an intergenerational pact; a broken pact. And it was obvious: we had been in a state of ecological excess since the 1980s; we were operating above the planet's load capacity; we were consuming resources on credit, outsourcing environmental costs, amassing many of them in the atmosphere and, of course, it's like urinating upwards, and now we've got problems: depletion of key resources, extinctions, climate emergency... We've been caught by young people, and they're demanding that we tell the truth. And we have to explain to them that we have consumed a part of what was on them, we, the oil junkies, which we have been talking about for decades about reducing consumption and consuming more and more. With a system incapable of distributing wealth without restricting itself to the limits of the planet, with our unsustainable sustainable development. And now emergency. We who have been in distress for many years know that there are two things which ought not to be done in the case of emergency. One to get into the panic. That's why I agree with President Urkullu when he said that we have to get out of the statement he read about climate emergency: If the panic takes you in an emergency, you're done for. But there is another way, when there is an emergency as hurtful as panic; To think that you can continue to do what you were doing. And in that case too, you're done for. And I do not agree here, when the President proclaims a precursor in the climate-politics, when he celebrates the plans which we have made, when he boasts of the results which he has made to-day, when he wishes to imagine that we have done domestic work. A precedent must be shown in actions rather than in words, and especially with results. Let's see. Well, first of all, is our situation bearable? Is our development bearable? The number of world-wide inclinations is not bearable, so the spills must be lowered. We all agree to that. How then can we be bearable if we double the flow of one world, and if we are above Europe? And in this case, to be a mouse's head compared to the state, when we have no such consolation. And that's the photo. And about the career, are we done homework? Let's take a look at it. When this government presented its program, it said that it was intended to bring out the law of the Environment Administration, of the Conservation of Nature, and of the climate change. Then it broke into three. The other two have been introduced, and now, with the law of climatical changes, work on propaganda. The rhetoric of the hilarity celebrates euphorion, even in the July declaration. In this case, the plan of being neutral carbons for 2050 a year is represented by the fact that, at the same time, he mentions two planaries, confirming his commitment to them. The first is a climate strategy. But here's a big problem: The climate strategy says that in 2050 each year fossil resources will remain 60 percent of myrgetic consumption. The question is evident: How the hell do we get carbon-neutrality if 60% of the fossils are to be burnt? The second is 2030 Elgetic Strategy. But we have another major problem here. The MARRIBRIL is saying that the fossil gas is going to be used until 2100 years. How the hell do we get carbon-neutality if we continue to burn gas for the year 2050 until the year 2100? That's about to be explained slowly. What I'm trying to say is that there isn't now, on the table, a credible planning. But be careful, I don't say, we don't say anything has been done. Last week Egibar said that climate policies from year 2002 are working, yes. The problem is, whether the policy of climate is active or not, that the climate pays no attention to words, plans, beauty, or laws. The climate answers only to sheds. The climate is a severe judge. Maybe we can sell the TV inspectors, the radio audiences, the voters, the plans, the laws, the strategies, not the climate. Unfortunately, only results can be shown in the climate. And the results are not good. And it's not even a good inclination. To reach the state of neutral carbon, which we mention so much, have we really thought what it means? To get to carousel, we'd have to start today, at least 8% of the year's downfall, without fail in a single year. Well, our results were as follows: For the last 40 years, it's been down by 6%. How the hell do we get down to 95% of the sheds without having a terrible change in the next 30 years? That's the challenge ahead of us. That's our job. And we, as we have hitherto shown in this law, are ready to work both hands. We're in town, and we're gonna do more, but we need resources. We need a ecological pact here, because we have two options: to await miracles, or to direct the whole machine to this end. And this requires modification in all the sectors, many imaginations, the implication of the citizen and a hundred producers, research and money. Last week, Angela Merilla, as they were engaged in nearly 30,000 people in the streets of Berlin, announced a sample of 54.000 billion euros for ecological transitions. And he accepted the situation with a short sentence, adding the epitaph to an era: "We're not bearable nowadays." To adapt the impulse which Germany has given to ours, in proportion to the economy, it requires us to put $1.100 million on the table. Are we ready to talk about it? I want to finish by saying that tomorrow we'll probably be a lot in the streets, and, in the midst of the shouting, "Tell the truth! "He will cry out. And the truth is hard, but we owe them the truth. And, in truth, we know where the goal is: but the road is not yet drawn, and we have great difficulty in drawing it. We know a few directions: what must rise, what must fall. Up, the resilient energy implementation must be done, electronization, public transport use, economic products, circular economy, recycles, self-retainments and nutrients, and, to put everything in motion, all self-maintainments. Down on the gas jets of the effect. And for that, down with the oil, gas and coal consumption. And for that, the consumption of products that are to be moved thousands of miles down, hypermovation today. Plastics, crematories, private car usages, cement consumption and chimney smokes. But yet we must confess that we do not yet know how we shall solve certain accounts without fossil resources: starting, heavy ground transport, cement and concrete product, trade and fishing-flot, mechanised agriculture, or non-regetic use of fossil resources. With that, and if we can't draw the whole solution, we know at least where to begin, where to invest, and we know where to begin the changes. We know where information and development plan should go. The possibilities are there, and somebody will use them, so let's try to be us. Against what is said, hope is not the last thing that is lost, but the first thing that is won. With the youthful impulse hope knocks on the door, let's guess how to feed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President, Chief, Congressman, good morning. On July 30th the lehendakari declared the climate emergency in Euskadi. The declaration stated that a commitment was being made to "take urgent and ambitious action in all policies developed by the Government". Next Monday will be 30 October, it will have been three months, and our group has seen little about climate change measures. The other day, in the Committee on the Environment, we defined this emergency as the calm emergency. The quiet emergency weather emergency quiet Today, to the thread of an EH Collectation, we will call climatical emergency here in the Parliament, but the climate emergency is already called in our country. And our contribution will be in this discussion, please, 'cause we're late.' Last June, I asked the president to challenge the leadership, the initiative and the political will. And you have to reflect on the budgets of initiative, leadership and political will. We need enough budget to push forward specific and effective measures and promote economic resources. The real debate today, as I say, is not so much whether we have to declare the climate emergency or whether, as Mr Otero has already said, we are actually demonstrating with this statement that our economic, social and political system today is unsustainable for the planet. What is under discussion on this agenda item today is the deadlines and times by which we will have to act. Greta Thunberg said that we cannot solve a crisis without treating it as a crisis. And we can't consider a real, quiet emergency. It is true that our group accepts it and will defend it, that comprehensive agreements are needed, that consensus is needed, that action is needed to try to maintain economic activity and employment, and that is what our group shares. What we do not share is the thesis that, for example, Councillor Arriola showed the other day in the Committee on the Environment to say, textually, "that it would be suicidal to put our economic activity at risk". Those messages confuse, those messages paralyze, and those messages lead to inactivity. Because there are two temptations in that regard. One temptation is not to act; I will no longer mention denying climate change, I will mention the temptation not to act. Well, the European Union has said that the cost of not acting is EUR 240 billion in the European Union, 2% of GDP. The cost of not acting in Euskadi we already have every day on the pages of the newspapers. June Newspaper: "Climate change threatens with pests and alterations of grapes in Rioja Alavesa". April Newspaper: "The beautiful North Pole. A study by Azti – the government – reveals that climate change will force several tuna species, including the beautiful, to exile in latitudes closer to the North Pole, forcing the runaways And this cost of not acting is already on the street today. The collective that is protesting outside, that of workers in the lavish wine sector, are ultimately going to pay the consequences of not acting, because at the moment when Rioja Alavesa's grape begins to be less profitable, obviously, those who are going to lose are not going to be the wineries, those who are going to lose are going to be the employees and employees who work in that sector. So, I have some bad news: not acting is not an option. And to wait for others, which is another temptation, to wait to see what the rest is doing, to wait for someone to take the first step and be us or us the second or the third or the tenth, to see if we're not wrong, what I called in a debate the delaying behavior , and allow us to create some of the 65 million jobs that the professor, the economist, Nicholas Stern said, when he came to the Change the Change conference And Nicholas Stern himself said, at that conference, "it is necessary to accelerate the change of change." And he said: "The question is not whether we should do it, because the answer is a yes; the question is also not in what way, because there are resources and technology for it. The question lies in how we can speed it up." How can we speed it up? Our group agrees that agreement and consensus are necessary in this acceleration, but what cannot happen in any way is paralysis. Professor Nicholas Stern talked about good climate policies That's why, really, we must thank the young people who are in the streets because they show us the pattern and path, and because they give the right message to them in this matter. The importance of the right messages, I mentioned earlier. Councilman Arriola said that "it would be suicidal" to change our economic activity, put our economic activity at risk. I would say here today that what is suicidal is to keep burning 60% of our waste; what is suicidal is to keep filling up our piles of eucalyptus; what is suicidal is to spend 200 million euros on four kilometres of motorways, and what is suicidal is that two out of three motorized displacements in Euskadi are done in a private vehicle, occupied by 1.2 people; what is suicidal is to think that our car industry will continue to act, as always, outside of the global trends that exist today. And that's why the young people on the street give us two correct messages. One, which must not be acted on account of economic reasons, but on account of ethical obligation. We have no right, no right to change the climate, no right to change a species. That's why they and they shout "No more degree, no less species!". The future does not belong to us; the future is of the youth who are on the streets, and therefore we are being shouted that we are stealing the future from them. My generation faced other challenges, faced other environmental and other social challenges, both in Euskadi and abroad. Today it is up to us and to us, who are already of age, to fight for our future; today it is up to us, it is up to them, to fight for their future, but it is up to our generation to support them. Because, as Susan George said, "Another world is possible, but we have to fight it." And that is where we are today, here, in Parliament, and tomorrow on the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u7	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Our group will also vote in favour of this initiative. We have made an amendment, a compromise amendment that we share has been drawn from those amendments. We share because this song sounds to us. I want to tell you that since 2015 the Basque Autonomous Community has had an important tool to curb the impacts of climate change. The Basque Country's Climate Change Strategy, Klima 2050 The first, "Integrate mitigation and adaptation to climate change into public planning". Today, in the initiative we say, "promote, promote and agree on necessary initiatives to act with ambition and urgency in the face of the climate emergency", which reflects the climate emergency in a cross-cutting way in the plans and programmes and budgets that will be developed below. Other premises of the Climate Change Strategy are "Promoting exemplary and coordinated action by the Administration to achieve the transformation towards a low-carbon and adapted society"; "Supporting innovation and technological development, which will allow the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors and reduce the vulnerability of the territory to climate change"; "Encouraging the co-responsibility of all actors of Basque society in mitigation and adaptation actions"; and "Adapting local knowledge on climate change to decision-making". But this initiative, this tool, which is the Klima 2050 Strategy, has been put forward with motions for resolutions. I am going to tell you about motions for resolutions that were adopted in September 2015, four years ago. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to provide "resources required, annualised in the planned period". "Principal budgetary programmes which are affected: (...) investment, promotion..., which are currently in force and which have a link with the strategic lines they seek." Mark the "medium- or long-term economic impact expected for the implementation of the strategy". "Disaggregation of economic resources allocated by strategic lines and actions, identifying sections, economic programmes and budgetary services". And so many others, up to 90, have made themselves to improve this strategy. Therefore, what is reflected today in the initiative that we are being asked is reflected in the Climate Change Strategy, what does not coincide is the name, what we call "climate change", now we will call it "climate emergency". I don't care about "Pepe" than "José", "José" or "Pepe", the important thing is how we mark the actions and what we do. Because we have objectives set out in that strategy, which is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Euskadi by at least 40% by 2030, and by 80% by 2050. This is important, reaching also by 2050 a renewable energy consumption of 40% in final consumption. This strategy, as I said, is the reference for the rest of the government's sectoral policies and plans that have an impact on climate change. And if climate change measures and policies are important, the coordination of these actions is all or more important. Due to the horizontal nature of climate change, coordination of strategies and actions requires the participation of a number of actors by effectively developing. Therefore, the strategy itself establishes the management and coordination structure. And as the other day, in fact, in the appearance, the management and coordination structure was questioned, I went to the strategy itself and established the following structure: "The Department of Environment and Territorial Policy of the Basque Government leads the coordination and momentum of this Climate Change Strategy [...] with the support and main thrust of the Departments of Economic Development and Competitiveness (Vice-Councillor of Industry) and Finance (Vice-Councillor of Economy and Budgets)". But say more. He says that the "Directorate of Natural Environment and Environmental Planning (...) is responsible for supporting this Strategy. To this end, it must have the necessary cooperation from all interested parties. In order to develop the assessment and monitoring of climate policy, it will be supported by the Ihobe Public Society and the Basque Water Agency (...). This Directorate is responsible for supporting the coordinating departments in all technical work on climate policy analysis, diagnosis, planning and evaluation designed in this Strategy." It also states that "In addition, an interinstitutional coordination mechanism between the various administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community will be promoted for the implementation and follow-up of the actions of this Strategy". But when we go to the monitoring and evaluation formula, it also marks what are the elements of the monitoring plan: the compliance status sheets, the monitoring indicators, the monitoring reports, the interim evaluation reports... And it also says that "In addition and according to needs, specific sectoral reports and analyses will be carried out to complement" which previous reports are necessary; "... will be coordinated by the Environment Directorate...", etc. I mean, we have a structure. Which worked; probably not. It has to work; yes. But this is very important. And I'm telling you this because the other day there was a question. Mr Otero, in your justification for the motion, you refer to the fact that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change raised the tone in its 2018 report and called for changes in the electricity, agriculture, transport and industry sectors. At least in this autonomous community we are not at the same level in industry, transport, management of the electricity and agriculture sectors. Agriculture emits 3%, is responsible for 3%, and the others are 33, 32... Therefore, we cannot put them on the same plane. Mr Becerra referred to tuna. Casually this summer the tunas – almost have not had to leave the boats – came to the coast and climbed almost alone to the boat. Therefore, the report here has not grasped this fact that marks another trend; it is not that they went away, it is that they came to the coast alone. So... I want to tell you to review the report if necessary. As I said, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. We are aware that the data we have – especially in 2017 – are not good; they are bad: we have risen in emissions when the industrial activity rate has fallen and other consumption has fallen, so something we are not doing well. And that we have to review, and that we have to readjust, but, as I told you, the Climate Change Strategy has tools to modify, it has tools, we know who is responsible and what it does to each department. Therefore, if we have the strategy and we have the clear tools, we know what needs to be done, what we have to do is give it a more important boost, which is why we are going to vote in favour of this compromise amendment because we believe it reflects what has already been put into this strategy in its day and because we are at a time of giving momentum because we believe that our action is not enough. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u9	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Firstly, I would like to conclude this agreement, which will be unanimous. A broad and necessary agreement on an issue that must go beyond the will and the right words to end with concrete and real commitments. The concern for the environment, the mitigation of greenhouse gases, the daily destruction of the planet and the undeniable climate change is a matter that already takes time at the forefront of any political agenda, in the front line of all electoral programmes and the budgetary demands of those who govern and those who are in opposition. But it is true that while all political parties are dealing with the issue and society seems to be becoming increasingly aware, greenhouse emissions, far from being mitigated, have suffered a rebound in Euskadi, as Mrs López de Ocariz acknowledged. After listening to the speeches over the last few months, even today's, many things can be said. On the one hand, I understand that it is fair to recognize some self-criticism and to flee from self-congratulation. The numbers speak for the good, but also for the bad, and time, it is true that it runs against us. But it is also fair to recognise all the actions that have been taken by the Basque Government, because action has been taken against climate change for a long time. It is true that everything has not been done well; some things are probably late, but the data is true that they speak, and the commitment of this Government should not be called into question and less after knowing the Basque Government's Institutional Declaration on Climate Emergency. I cannot share with Mr. Becerra that definition of calm emergency. This statement, which Mr Lehendakari shared with all Basque society before the summer, has been one of the main demands of environmental and climate collectives and organizations, and those who work on this issue agree that a climate change law is more than necessary, a commitment that Mr Arriola leads and that will be the second climate change bill that will come to this House. Three years have passed in this government, it is true, but three years have passed for all, because the government, it is true that it has a responsibility that does not have the opposition, but it is also true that when it seems that the government does not arrive, the opposition can also have political initiative, and a proposal for a Climate Change Act can also come from the hand of the opposition if you consider that some of us are wasting time. There are many areas related to the climate emergency: the production system, demand for consumption, investments in a new energy age, sustainable mobility... Policies that should be raised with a prospect of the future fleeing from the short-term that has recently characterized politics too much. We should face climate change policy as something that goes beyond good words in the forums, the transformation of the development model as an obligation. Because, Mr Becerra, the temptation not to act, I believe that today, in this government, is not even an option. And you know that you can't give a 360 degree turn in an economic activity because economic activity is at risk and behind that there are many families with jobs and there are many things that are at hand. I think it is fair and responsible to seek balance. We need to act on environmental issues and transform our development model, our economic model and multilateralism, in particular from a climate perspective. The issue we are discussing today is no longer questioned by anyone, unlike not too many years ago when some questioned it. Society is already aware that our current development model is not viable, and it is the policy's obligation to be able to respond, without forgetting the ethical dimension of this issue because ethics in this also has its main role. And as Minister Ribera said in the Congress of Deputies – with whom, of course, I share her words – "Governments must exercise their full responsibility. What they do or what they stop doing results in hindering or facilitating, anticipating or delaying responses or the best solutions to problems, to urgency, to the difficulties of addressing climate change." There are no more excuses because we are at a point of no return, and this is known by the young people who are on the streets leading the massive demonstrations; the governments, who are ultimately the ones who manage politics, and, of course, the parties who are in opposition at every moment. The initiative that Mr Otero brings us today comes after an inquiry into a full of control. We are all familiar with the position of the Government, which, moreover, and is not baladí, adopted and presented before the summer an Institutional Declaration of the Basque Government of Climate Emergency. It was presented by the Lehendakari with his entire Government, therefore, this demonstrates the concern for the matter and the commitment to be made to achieve the objectives set. From the Socialist Group we did not want to make an intervention full of data, reproaches, but to seek and underline what we share, rather than what differentiates us, because if we enter there, perhaps, perhaps, the vote would not be unanimous. It is important to recognize the difference between those who govern and manage, and those who from their legitimate right as opposition are not able to recognize what is advanced, what is proposed and what is committed, because it is true that the data of Euskadi speak, but it is also fair to recognize that in Euskadi we are not the same as elsewhere in Spain. We are at the door of the budget debate. The opportunity to negotiate, shape and achieve concrete budget lines to fight for environmental challenges and objectives that we are constantly repeating is there. Therefore, let us seize the opportunity, let us seize the opportunity from the opposition, because the rostrum endures everything, but we should overcome the discourse. Votes for or against climate change budgets can also determine the future of Euskadi. The agreed amendment reflects the demands initially made by those who sign it, commitments and climate emergency declaration. We still have a lot to do, but starting by agreeing can be an important step. Finally, I agree with Mr Becerra that many policies need to be changed. Energy policy, I believe, has adopted in this Parliament an energy pact that is being worked out. The waste policy, in this Parliament, we have had a presentation that we are on the verge of adopting an opinion, so things are being done. Forest policy, which has been discussed many times, and which, sometimes, because of the competences of different institutions, we are not able to reach agreements. And mobility policy, where this Parliament will also have the opportunity to discuss a sustainable mobility law. Therefore, what is demanded is being done. The Basque Government is being able to bring alternatives, although, of course, we must work for consensus. And the times and times, as I say, affect everyone. As I said before, I do not share the issue of the climate emergency, and although it is true, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, that there are many tools, such as the strategy that this Basque Government has on its tables to start working, it is true that talking about climate emergency a strategy I will therefore conclude by saying that the budgets are there. The policy is carried out under budget lines. Let's stop using the rostrum – and when I say I include my party – to always talk about climate change, about that sea environment. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u10	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u11	Yes, thank you, ma'am. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. "Eusctice is a pioneer community in a compromise towards tolerable development, in respect of environment, and in opposition to climate change." "The path which has been carried along has always been a model for the commitment of all public institutions, and for the mutual attachment of all the society of society. "This collective scheme has taken another step, which is decided by Euskion to join the political, social and academic institutions of all the world, and express the state of the climate and environment, in order to announce the commitment to accept ambitious actions committed by the government." On the 30th of July, these are two parts of the cultural expression made by the President on the climate emergency, and we have made it in the correction of the motion which we have made of the EH Collectation. We may, without doubt, say that facing climate change is one of the most important challenges of the world in its entirety, to adapt, or to stop it in some way. From March 6 to 8, it was celebrated in Donost, because we all share the same purpose in the international policy and political, academic, social interest in the climate change. changing climate change. And in that conference, the commitment to climate change from Euka was apparent. Nicholas Stern himself, who has been mentioned by Mr Becerra, said: "I recognize the leadership that the Basque Country has in the issue of climate change." "Esquekadi is a small people, we are small, and have but little influence over the general fluid, but we have long been working up the exact actions of remedying them in front of the general heat. The Basque Climate Change Strategy, which has already been mentioned above, Klima 2050, adopted in 2015, and the Energy Strategy 2030, adopted in 2016, reflect the Basque Government's clear commitment to the objectives of reducing emissions and on energy transition, putting forward structural and also urgent measures of a holistic and cross-cutting nature. Among the 15 country targets prioritized by the Government is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, and the energy transition is also a priority in public policies, with the challenge of moving towards carbon neutrality, reducing emissions to the amount to which they can be reabsorbed and assuming that goal of a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. To face the change of climate is to everyone's care, and the institutions nearest to the community have a great deal to say on this subject. And we also have a town-wide strategy of Euskadin (Udalgagaine 2030), where several municipal councils conceive several actions, beginning from the inventory of the inclinations, or set up so many measures to adapt or diminish climate changes. We've been doing this tour for years, and the Euko Munch, together with other institutions, actions developed have also offered their results, because they have been effective in various areas. To mention some: People's consciousness, for instance, is 14 points higher than 10 years ago. The leaks have been reduced, too, during economic growth, the Euscal economy for 10 years has increased 65% and the fluids have decreased 18%. And the retractable energy is spreading too. As for the consumer, 2007 was 8%, and 2016th, 14%, even though we have to accept the goal of Europe at 30% by 2030 is still quite far away. Like we said, we've been working on this thing for years. What's done may not be enough, it won't be enough for anyone, but I dare say we're on the right track. The Climate Change Strategy, Klima 2050, we consider it to be a valid strategic tool and in line with the objectives set by the European Union in this area. It defines Euskadi's vision by 2050, with clear objectives: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and by 80% by 2050, and to achieve a final consumption of renewable energy by at least 40% by 2050. In the environmental profile of Euskadi 2018, which was published in February, we can also see the results of measures taken to reduce emissions by sectors. In the energy sector, which accounts for 14% of total emissions, we have seen their emissions cut by more than 13% compared to 2005. Energy consumption from renewable sources increased between 2015 and 2016 by 12,5 %. And the share of electricity generated from renewable sources reaches 14.3 in Euskadi of the final consumption. The industrial sector, which generates 31% of total emissions, has also seen these emissions cut by 50% since 1990. It is shown that they are measures that have been taken correctly because they have been proven to be effective: at the same time as the gross domestic product increased by 65 %, emissions have fallen. The transport sector, which has been mentioned above, is perhaps in which we should pay more attention because it is true that it has had worse results because total emissions in this sector have increased over the past five years, and, indeed, perhaps, we should pay particular attention to it. And also in the residential area, the Sustainable Housing Building and Rehabilitation Guide This 2050 strategy, already applied for two years, developed in 45%, and the goal is to develop 100 percent by 2020. The circular economy has also been mentioned and has already started a strategy, Circular Threading. In order to mention what has been done in this parliament, the law was adopted on the Esquirelome of the Esquimic Esquimosa. It's already been over by Christmas and the Bill of Law on Environment Administration, and it's also preparing for the Commercial Change Act, and the intention of fun is to bring you to this law before the end of the year. Thus the eupscal institutions, together with all the other agents and society, are at work. A road is established which agrees with the attainment of goals placed in the national level. We've gone on, but we have to do more, and I think we all agree on that, and we're all necessary. I also wish to congratulate the agreement we have made today, and I think it will be a good foundation for us all to share the end, although I am certain that we shall have differences in order to accomplish the actions which must be started in order to accomplish it, or at what speed we must do it, no? But if we really think and feel that we must face climate change, we must deal with honesty and seriousness, and, as Miss Rojo said, this tribe, in fact, this tribe of ours or our powers. So I think today's a good basis. We shall have an excellent opportunity when the Law of the Climate Change comes to the legislature, where every one, as I have said before, is to discuss what precise or how we ought to do. I also agree with what Mr. Otero has said, "that we do not fall out of crime, but must act with submission and ambition." It is because society requires it, and especially because young men, in fact, in recent times, demand such an institutional and political care. For the end, I think she's in the hands of everybody she's really saying. Indeed, we must ask those who have the institutional and political care or have something to do with them, but I believe that we can do a great deal from this little sphere of things too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u13	Yeah. A note to Madam Rojo: Since the Basque Country collects, no doubt the climate change or climate emergency bill will be very present in the budget and an account that will weigh very heavily. Just like that. I think there's a lot to say with Mrs. Zaleski. First, the goal, I think you're wrong. Target is zero self-critic carbon And here, behind this, is an important matter and it's the general director of the United Nations in Guterres, whether the theory is true or not. He's the one who says ball-ball-bombing. But there is another interpretation, and that is, without so much disorder as the data, that we who say it is a serious situation, and that we have long since emerged from the chalk, and the ballonic. That's why it's very important what we do about this. You've twisted the data a lot, but I told you the climate is a tough judge. And I think you ought at least to answer a single question: How can we explain, if Euchardi is a pioneer, if we have suitable plans, if we are doing well, that this is in the balance data? President Urkullu from all he needs. At the end of the year, we could say the first data, from the 2013th initiative: 2013, 19.349 Tonladas de emissions, 2014, 19287, 2015, 19.665,000, 2016, 19400.000, y 2017, 20.046.000. I mean, the biggest emissions of all time, from all over the Urkullu era Because the only correct interpretation that can be made of this is that for many years the emissions have not fallen, but have increased, because the strategies were not correct, because the money that has been put on is not enough, because we have not been right in how it is done, because we have not given it enough importance, for whatever it is. But it has to start with a self-criticism, not a denial, because if we start with a denial, it is impossible to think that we have to make profound changes. I want to tell you something else. Interpretations are not only valid in order to change the state or to start transforming the state. If we twist the data and we misinterpretate it, perhaps, and you said here that the divisional interests must not succeed, of course they can do well from a divisional interest: "There's a climate change, but let's not worry, we're doing things right." I think he's making a good summary of this operation this week for the Callacall. "The multitude of youth mobilizations and the upcoming global climate strike on Friday are, in this sense, a benchmark of demand for all countries, although some of them come to the UN meeting with the duties better done than others. The Basque Government..." The Basque Government, according to Deia's editorial We are not going to have the Climate Change Act; the plans you have once again praised do not capture the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050, which is what you are signing today... How can we say, with these results in hand, that things are going well and we go with the duties done? I think you didn't answer that, and that's what you'd have to answer, and when you've done a little more honest, things will be much easier to get to the agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u15	Well, believe me, Mrs. López de Ocariz, that I am infinitely happy, for our kupela grudges. I agree with you that priority must be given, and you are absolutely right that not all sectors contribute equally to climate change, and that here in Euskadi we have a special problem with energy and mobility. If I disagree that the Basque strategy Klima 2050 is what we need, because that strategy is the responsibility of the Government alone, it applies only to the Government, we need a law that applies to the whole country, to all sectors and to all institutions, and we are not going to have it. We are not going to have it, and I did not like Mrs Red to appeal to the opposition's lack of political initiative. I would have liked to put forward a proposal for a Climate Change Act, but I would have had an unfavorable report from the government telling me that a law is being made. I waited two years, I waited two years, and in the end we're going to pass a legislature without the Climate Change Act. And it is not because of the opposition, that we would probably have liked both me and Mr Otero, and possibly Mrs López de Ocariz, to support her, but we will not have her. And that can't be blamed on the opposition. I didn't like that. I do not question the Government's commitment. Lehendakari has joined this debate, however, Councillor Arriola has not been at any time. I don't know the reasons, but it hasn't been the day we discussed the climate emergency. There is a report on the 2050 strategy, referred to by Mrs López de Ocariz, made by public society Ihobe, of the barriers and challenges facing the 2050 Climate Change Strategy. First barrier. Financing. "The availability of funds has been the difficulty mentioned a greater number of times in implementing the Strategy's actions." That is why, when I speak of the Government's commitment, I link it to the budgets, I link it to the budgets and I link it to the items. It is not our group's intention to make 360-degree turns, which, on the other hand, are the Government's, because 360-degrees, recognize me as a whole to go in the same direction. And that is what the government has done, for example, with forest policy, where we have assumed that pines have been sick for climate reasons, and the conclusion of the government, of the country, of the deputies has been "but we are going to continue planting pines". We're going to give 360 degrees to continue in the same direction. We have a change of energy policy and mobility, where yesterday when I was going by bus home, we advanced a tanker truck, all white, that put "liquefied natural gas". And in the back he put a polar bear and put under "ecological". The last cars the Basque Government has bought have been liquefied natural gas, they have not been electric, they have been liquefied natural gas. What does this lead me to? In addition to 360-degree laps, what we're throwing at citizens are wrong messages. Because citizenship, if it sees that the government buys liquefied natural gas cars, is not going to buy them electrically, nor is it going to go on public transport, because it is receiving wrong messages. And of course, when we appeal, and Mrs Berasaluze has said, to the "individual actions", to the "awareness of the people", from the government, from the institutions can no longer launch wrong messages. Because the main problem that Euskadi has to deal with individual actions is that when people are asked around the world if they consider climate change to be a global problem, 12% say yes; when they are asked in Euskadi, they only say that it is a global problem 1%. That is to say, Basque citizens have been convinced that we are indeed on the right track and that if we give a whirlwind it will be to put employment and economic activity at risk. And, unfortunately, it's just the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u17	Briefly, to clarify some issues. I do not say that the Climate Change Strategy is the end of any tool. No, no, that's all we have today and that's not bad, that's fine. Another thing is how we acted, how we developed it. Indeed, the whole budget was put on the table and in the motions for resolutions, because we all understood that it needed a budget part. Another thing is how it has evolved, and, in fact, has not evolved, because the data do not work, and we believe that if it had been applied more intensively, more consciously, it would have progressed better. But he does have coordination tools. "I said so," with the different administrations, he has tools. And she says: "... an interinstitutional coordination mechanism between the various administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community shall be promoted for the implementation and monitoring of the actions of this Strategy." But it is that, in addition, in the process of monitoring and evaluation, "they will always have mechanisms of citizen participation and of socio-economic agents...". He talks about dynamism processes, talks about the Klima-Tec forum, talks about Udalsarea 21, talks about tools that have citizen participation. Therefore, it is not exclusively for the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, it is for all administrations. That's what it puts in the strategy. I mean: the structure is perfectly marked, another thing is how it has developed. And, well, we promoted in the ninth legislature the Climate Change Act and Mr Leopoldo Barreda, along with other members of the team, we promoted that bill, which came to the House, even worked on making amendments. The legislature was over and there it was, but of course we were already fully aware that a Climate Change Act had to come to this House. I mean, we haven't had breakfast now about this need and this problem, have we? We come from time ago, with a bag of work and impulse, something else is the circumstances that have occurred. That is therefore the position that the People's Party has taken, and that it wants to maintain, with regard to climate change, and the actions that we are going to develop and that we will push when they come to this House from our point of view and from our point of view. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u19	Thank you, President, and I will be very brief. The truth, Mr Becerra, is that I do not understand why we were able to reach an agreement unanimously on an issue which seems that we all shared, more or less, without going into detail, as I said in my first speech. Well, in the end, it seems to you that everything has gone wrong; that we are sending wrong messages to society; that, when the Basque Government has to make a determination to buy some vehicles, it is wrong; that we use this House not to bring the laws, and then, above, when we come out the spokespersons, you have felt offended by what I have told you about the opposition's initiative. What I wanted to say to you is not that you do little or much or regular; what I wanted to say to you is that just as on other occasions the opposition has understood that it was urgent and decisive the need to bring in a proposal for a law, and you have done so, as for example on the subject of commercial establishments that were debated just before the summer, in this matter they could have done so too. I didn't mean to say anything else. Not that they do it better, not that they do it worse, but that there is a big difference between parties that have government responsibility, and that they manage, and that the difficulty comes when you have to make certain decisions that affect each other, because you said "no, the 360 degrees have been made to do nothing...". You know that's not true. You know that throughout this legislature many decisions have been made regarding policies that end up affecting climate change; you know, as I told you, that there is the Sustainable Mobility Act, which is something that was being demanded, and that even in the bill that brought Mrs Tapia into energy it ended up including a part of transportation that was not initially, because the Government understood that there were areas that did not touch the initial bill that needed to be covered, as it was what affected industry, as it was what affected citizens at a personal level, each at home, and as it was what it had to do with transportation. I think we have to be right at the time of... Probably everything hasn't been done right; I'm the first one I've said that I think we have to be self-critical, I think time goes against us, we have a lot to do. When asked what opinion a Basque citizen has on climate change and only 1% responds that he considers it a problem..., forgive me, Mr Becerra, but that is not the responsibility of the Basque Government, in my opinion. Because in the same way that when you ask the Basque citizen what perception he has of the improvement of the economy in Euskadi and responds that he is much better than seven years ago, I would like to hear in this rostrum that that is also the responsibility of the Basque Government. What cannot be is that when the answer suits us the fault is Lakua's and when the answer we like is the merit of the opposition. In the end, it depends on how the question is asked, it depends on what context, it depends on what moment... Probably if that question of climate change is asked today to Basque citizens, with the street strike, with what is happening in New York, with everything that young people are mobilizing in the street, probably the answer is another. Because you know that the context and the moment you ask yourself and how you ask yourself is decisive. But, frankly, that 1% is not the responsibility of the Basque Government. I think it can also be everyone's responsibility, because all political parties, one because we have more history and one because they have less, have talked a lot about climate change and when the time has come to sit at the negotiating tables we have not been able to agree. You know this as well as I do because we have experienced a very long waste presentation, in which we are all concerned about the waste policy in Euskadi and, when it comes time to "let's sit down and put five scripts, in which we agree that the waste policy of Euskadi is to be determined", because the concern, yes, but the ability to agree is sometimes much more complicated than it seems. But I want to keep in mind that we have been able to sign an amendment among all because we understand that concern is common, and Mr Otero also warns me that they are going to be responsible on the subject of budgets with regard to what has to do with the environment... The only thing I would like to say is that I had no doubt, but, in addition to the budget headings, I would be able to negotiate them in order to vote in favour of them, because you have the nerve to make all the amendments in order to vote against them, because, frankly, Mr Otero, it is worth quite little.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u20	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u21	Well, Mr. Otero, I must confess we've begun the morning well, when I've seen him, we'll admit the middle-class. And when you signed, you said, "But I'm gonna complain," and that's what you complained about, and a lot of it. Then I doubt really what this admission is about. I really hope today is a basis for something. I told you before. You told me that I'd done that, and "no" you wouldn't... Well, I said "neutracade de emissions de carbono." I don't think it's the same thing and that's the point. You're telling us that you respect Mr. Guterres in the last week's commission, even today. He said, "Hello que dar un volantzo. Well, that's what you say, too. But I'd ask you which way. Because you often look like you have no choice, but you don't care to left, right, you're in danger if you fall off the road or don't know, volantazzo volantazo. I have said that I value the running strategy, because I think the road is good, because it is also directed to the ends which mark us both from Europe and from Europe; and I have said that perhaps we shall not share actions or speed, and I think we shall be able to perform this in the tramation of the law of climate change. You compare the data with Spain, for instance, that we make much more fluid here, that we have more media in Spain, but also a hundred producers, what media is and what ours are, we should begin to compare it. And the situation isn't the same. We, I said before, are small. Spain, compared with it, is much bigger. It's not the same as that 100 producers. And then, I think we should be a little serious in making the comparisons. And I also believe that it is clear that industrial emissions production has been shut down, because the data are clear: productivity has increased and emissions have decreased. I believe that the measures that have been taken have given some good results, which means that the measures will not have been bad either. And as for Mr Becerra, it is true that I have mentioned the words of young Jon Kareaga, who spoke of these individual actions in small spaces, small things, and it is true that citizenship has to be involved – we all have to be involved – and for that it is true that it must be informed and it must be told exactly what the situation is and where we want to go, but without alarm – in that I think we all agree – and with truth, and by sharing everyone I believe what that information has to be. Because, too, if we are going to devote ourselves to facing up to the fact that if comparative data is to be taken in relation to what year..., and also if that is used to create this controversy between us, I think we are not going the right way either. I think we all have to be honest. I agree that we must report, that we must tell the truth, but without alarm and without lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. End of discussion, we'll vote. EH Collect, Euskal Popular, Euskal Sozialists, half-conditioned by Podemos and Eukébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u23	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "A proposition of the same law as the parliamentary Podemos together, concerning the right of attending to a public school at Esscha. Discretion and final resolution." Group proposer's turn: Mrs. Macazaga, representing the Podemos group together, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u24	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, a few weeks after the Euskadi educational centres started the course, today we are doing it in this Parliament with the first ordinary plenary session of this session. There are a number of initiatives that we have brought to the debate in which we were clearly betting for quality public education that guarantees educational equity, as the only option that can ensure that the right to education is a reality that generates social cohesion, offering quality education for all students, regardless of their economic conditions. In short: ensuring a quality public school, ensuring educational equity, ensuring equal opportunities. A series of guarantees that from Elkarrekin We can see necessary to get a Euskadi of a speed, a cohesive Euskadi. The enrolment period of students in educational institutions is a key moment for future personal development, not only of that child, but also for the future of society. A society – the Basque one – in which the birth rate is reduced to sharp steps and the lack of social cohesion is palpable in many spaces of our daily life. The school where each family decides to enrol their children directly and indirectly influences personal and social development – type of relationships, habits, etc. – and this is extremely important when we are faced with an educational system based on two virtually balanced networks, with 48% of the private-concerted network and 51% of the public network. From Elkarrekin We can bet on public and inclusive schools for all, without distinction. Because all children have the right to receive quality education, regardless of their socio-economic and cultural index, place of origin or municipality of residence. The school cannot be an element that creates a social gap, nor the origin of the Basque society sailing at two speeds. In this regard, it is very important to know the reasons that lead families to enroll their children in some or other educational centres, how many families do so through the educational project. We should go out on the street to ask parents what the educational project of their children's centre is, and few would know how to explain it. I have tested families who go to private-concerted school, and had no answer, but, nevertheless, they did complain about the ratios of 30 students in their classrooms, compared to 25 in the public, because they do, however, consider this aspect as the element that affects the quality of education and that only the public school offers. So, what is the real reason why families go to private-concerted school? We often listen to the mantra of the "freedom of choice of center" and, of course, this which today is a panacea will only be possible if such freedom is assured to all families. All types of barriers that may make families choose one or the other should be avoided. The contributions that families face each month, the possible language barriers or the lack of resources required for students with special educational support needs, etc., etc. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government to ensure access to schooling for all students on an equal footing: Measures to ensure free compulsory education, both in public and private concerted schools, for pupils from low-income families, so that there is no payment for regulated compulsory education for these families. Measures to ensure the control of voluntary contributions for the development of supplementary and extra-curricular activities, setting maximum amounts for such activities and financial support for low-income families. Establish mechanisms that oblige all educational institutions to make a shared and equitable effort in the care of students with special educational support needs. More resources and support for centres in very unfavourable situations. These are some of the demands that are being demanded, measures aimed at ending school segregation caused by the socio-economic index of families, and this being one of the factors of the Euskadi, as I said, of the two speeds. In this sense, and as I said at the beginning of my speech, from Elkarrekin We have been recording various initiatives that address the complex of segregation. For example, we recently discussed a non-law proposal to ensure free education in all schools in the Basque educational system supported by public funds. And today we have this concerning the guarantee of the right to schooling of the Basque public school. And it is that to Elkarrekin We are concerned that it is perceived with normality that Euskadi is one of the territories of Europe that most subsidizes private education. We believe that it is urgent to adopt measures that contribute to greater cohesion of the Basque education system, that will give effect to the principles of free education, inclusion and equity, and that will compensate for the differences in the social extraction of students that make up some of the other centres in our education system. Because behind the innovations and invocations of the centre's freedom of choice, what is really hidden is the rejection of the social mix. Because more than talking about freedom of choice, we should talk about unlimited options in a system that leads students to the educational stratum that corresponds to them for their social origin. And we cannot allow schools to reflect existing social inequalities. And it's not something we just say. The Euskadi School Council itself in its periodic reports on the situation of education in Euskadi provides interesting data on the unequal distribution by networks of the student intern, the immigrant student, the student with special educational needs, the student repeater, the student who is not at the level that corresponds to him by age and the socioeconomic level by strata. And in the last report, referring to the period 2015-2017, it can be confirmed that all strata of the concerted network have an ISEC, that is, a socio-economic and cultural index, superior to any of the strata of the public network, with the corresponding impact on academic results and, also, on the scores of external evaluations, such as PISA, or diagnostic assessments, since the correlation between socio-economic conditions and academic performance is well known. And this is what is leading families to the concerted network and not the project of each center. On the basis of this data, the School Council in Euskadi itself has been making proposals related to equity. Among them, the need to ensure gratuity, by controlling the collection of quotas or that quotas for complementary activities are approved by the Administration, ultimately requiring what is already enshrined in law and which we ask in point four of the transaction to which we have arrived today. Because today we have managed to sign the following agreement by all the groups in this House, urging the Department of Education to "determine decisively by a public school, inclusive, equitable and innovative of quality in order to achieve greater balance, social cohesion and interculturality (and coexistence) in our educational institutions"; to "make an assessment of the educational project in order to prioritize the philosophy of public neighbourhood and neighbourhood centres"; to "establish mechanisms for all educational centres and environmental entities to make shared and equitable efforts in the attention to the diversity of pupils"; and to "in order to guarantee effectively the so-called freedom and right of families to freely choose the educational centre and project they want for their children, to continue with the inspection activity, both from the territorial commissions and from the Educational Inspectorate, to ensure the exercise of the rights and duties of individuals". Today I must thank you for the effort and willingness to reach an agreement that guides work towards strengthening an educational system where public school is key to a future society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u26	Good morning, everyone. Today's discussion, I want to use some reflection on the table. It's very remarkable at this moment, very remarkable, because of the development of the demography already known a few years ago, when the old age of the population increased, that our model of education has been discovered by an example already exhausted. There was a dispute, but, for all that is supposed and can be brought about by the coming of the controversy, it has been postponed, and has not been intended to dispute, or rather is not interested in the coming to the controversy, because it is intended to establish a certain social constitution, which, of course, has a just effect on our society; In equity, in equity, the Involvence, as we call it, the report of the Council of School, is present in the schools and academic performances, which are becoming worse and worse. But the worst part is that social life is stabilizing. The social panic is growing less and less oppressive by the use of no other incentives. And, actually, the Board of Education hasn't had the courage so far as to show any leadership to the discussion. And the proposal of the new legal frame, which we need, seems to have been directed to perpetuate the exhausted pattern of our education, and to those who have made it a full correction to our hands. It is true that everything that is happening in education is useful to us to lay the challenges and knots upon the table. Yet we often disturb the ends and the means; e, so are we. I mean: we mix them the end and the means. It seems like we need to encourage the birth rate now that we don't close schools and don't go down plate plate plate plate, and we forget about schools and schools. that education is the means of all men to ensure the equality of possibilities, to each person All of them had the means of building their own projects. This I say for all of us, that we often do, or seem to be impressed in disputes. So schools and plates aren't targets, they're people. Moreover, in the course of recent years, when we have no trouble with the birth rate, because we have looked at the wrong policy of education or the other side of education which has been established, several schools have been abandoned, the social bond is encouraged, the confession of schools is encouraged, and the paper, the necessary and important paper, which is the right subordinate of the administration, is weakened. Because he is the basis of the equality of equity in society, and the column of the welfare of a society must be the same. But it is true, and you will forgive me for saying this, but at the present moment, in practice, we have no standard of public net, we have no standard of the established network, we have schools, we have different networks, each of them his father's and his mother's. Some, by the network where they sit, with more rights and more autonomys, and others less rights on the network where they sit, with more duties and less autonomy. Some make it very difficult for us to respond to more complex reality with our poor resources, which renders the everyday difficult; others, even those which are found in the public, the stability of the professors, the clauses, the autonomy need of the autonomy, nothing else but the Economics of this year, which has at first been the case with the Economics; I can continue long to show the photograph of the situation, but both of them have difficulty in carrying out the results which they ought to achieve in DISTINCT, EGIA, equity, which we ought to have as a society, I want ambitions to represent to us that we have ambition as a society to fulfill it. Both of them have difficulty, and there is something to be better. This is the government's responsibility, it's the responsibility of public representatives, and that's where we're supposed to keep our position. It's just that, due to lack of government initiative, it often happens that it's put itself into the schools and teachers, or deprestiated or deprestiated. The situation, therefore, is not the competition between the two networks, or the insistence of the confessional, we must open the eye, and the moment is the way to extend the eye, but the time may be useful for a transition is no longer useful, and when the transition is passed, the situation must be turned round. We have to create conditions to make a detour, especially in order to respond to the equality, to the inclusion, and to the well-being, to improve the education model, and to change the model of organization. We ought to be under conditions for this, but, unfortunately, we are not yet at home, where we have homework for the benefit of the students and for the benefit of this society, especially the weakest by default and by putting multiplicity in value. So we should consider the crisis that is creating the demography as an opportunity, because every crisis and problem always enables us to pursue a new plan, a reasonable one, as a collective one. I know it's complicated. It's not easy. But it is true, if we continue this way, we shall not arrive very far, neither as a people, nor as a society, nor anything at all. I'm sorry, maybe some people are gonna be very far away, but other citizens are down and some people are out of line and out of line. After this reflection, I must say that we have signed the middle course and have our support, but it is true that the paper supports everything, and it is true, seeing what we have seen so far, that we have not much hope. And I don't know if it could be useful, but if I go wrong and start changing things from now on, but we've found ourselves in front of a government that's put aside the public school for years. But, well, maybe this could be a starting point. Why not? It also seems to us that what is received at the third point is said too easily, and that, as always, we wish to leave the blame, the burden, the professors, and the schools, is to say that the education project will flourish in the schools where the plates come down. That's what you say. And I'm going to tell you one thing, in education, unfortunately, that it's a good education project or not that has nothing to do with a good licence, but it has something to do with it in the neighborhood and in the country, because they have a label, or because they're poor and immigrants, and because we're very classists, we don't send our children to these schools because we don't often know what educational projects are, and when we go to license, we don't sell the reality, we don't know the reality, and we don't know the reality, and we don't know the idea of our collective picture, and we't have a job here, from public institutions. And so, to finish, I think it's very careful what we say, and what we don't say, Mrs. Macazaga. People don't go to the concert. And then, what shall I say to you, the right to choose a family school is a tale. ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u27	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u28	...a sly story that we often use to tear our seals, fears, hide and rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to highlight is that we are looking at a GNP which entered by register, almost a year ago. Of course, it's 2018. Then, that urgency that the proposer, Mrs. Macazaga, explained to us, "because we present many"... I don't know, because it's been so long... But it doesn't matter, it's still current. Everything about education remains current. I have to say that, when I first read it, I saw very difficult that we could reach the consensus that we have reached, and the consensus of course is to be thanked, but let us not deceive ourselves. Behind the consensus reached there are quite different positions, and we have now seen it in Mrs Ubera's intervention, especially with the final part, and I identify myself with her: the public school has a great quality, makes great efforts, and it is true that being plural is complex to manage. But I would also run away from giving a catastrophic view of what public school is, because it's not true. Then let's see. I thought it was difficult for us to reach an agreement because you started by saying not to close public classrooms until there were concerted classrooms that had enough students. The truth is, I got pretty tired. And then, they also said things like the origin of the concerted school was the lack of places in the public. Look, that's not true, it's not true. The origin of the concerted school is in traditions of this country that come, I believe, from the end of the 18th century. First, on the one hand, religious choices, usually Catholic, had their own educational institutions. And that's always been the case. And then, for example, we cannot forget, as far as vocational training is concerned, that there were many trade union schools. It is true that during the Republic, and before, they were from unions that had a freedom, and then almost all were from the Vertical Union, but there were, there were. And democracy came, and we saw that there were parents who decided, without any religious confession, to unite to have a certainty about how their children worked in education. And there was another sector that wanted to push the euskera in a very strong way and the ikastolas were created. And even when model D was imposed, those ikastolas wished to continue to exist. And then there were other centers that wanted to continue to train students in Christian humanism. It's just that you chan, chan, erase everything, take it off and say, "No, because there was no room." No, it's just that that's not true, that's not knowing our own story. There is one thing that has attracted much more attention to me: with what contempt you speak of freedom! "Because freedom of choice is an excuse," "because freedom of choice is said to be so I don't know what"... No, look, freedom in education, and in all areas, is one of the most important things that exists and is protected throughout our system. And freedom of education, not only in the Constitution, but in much higher areas, from universal spheres or declarations of human rights, etc., etc. What seems to you a silly and an excuse, is one of the pillars on which a civilized coexistence is sustained. The freedom of parents to choose the education of their children. And then, it's that sometimes you talk about that there has to be a "social cohesion." Of course there has to be, but will it be achieved with an educational uniformity? Because what you want is to standardize everyone for the same pattern. No, no, It's just that I see a series of contradictions... You speak of diversity, of aniztasuna I mean, here are some basics that everyone has to fulfill. You say that here you subsidize more than anywhere else. Look, it's not exactly a grant. I would say, although not literally in the legal sense, that it is a management order, a management order to facilitate freedom. And this management order, logically, involves an economic transfer, but it also involves the imposition of rules, the imposition of criteria, the setting of curricula, that is, that the fact that there is this diversity is always according to the general picture that from this Parliament, which we are responsible for legislating, we indicate that it is the right one. There's no one around here. To conclude, we have to comply with the criteria, we have to comply with the curricula. And that makes the public have, within those channels that allow diversity, but get what you want, that social cohesion and that inclusiveness. And then, here are points that you want to give one meaning and that, truth, for us has another. If you tell us, and the Basque School Council tells us about the difficulties that public institutions have with ISEC, how are we not going to prioritize them? But it is that you pose this as a war – public versus concerted – and we do not. Our concern is both the concerted and the public, and that is why, precisely because of this, we prioritize those centers that have the most needs. And if the Basque School Council tells us that they are the public network, we are going to turn all our efforts, we are going to turn all our efforts, because, as we have said many times, education is the engine of social mobility. It is education that gets – as I have said several times – that the son or daughter of poor parents is not condemned to be poor, and that the daughter or son of wealthy parents is not guaranteed the wealthy future. Social mobility, that's what we're looking for, so that everyone can thrive. And then, if the Basque School Council tells me where there are more difficulties in achieving that, count on our group to turn because for us the perspective is the boys and girls of Euskadi, who are all our future and is the future of Euskadi, and we don't care if they go to the concertate, go to the public – let them choose! – but where there are difficulties, our group, the People's Group, will be prioritizing those centers. And I'm done, because I have very little time left, but I want to remind you that our group asked the councilwoman a long time ago that we can't solve these problems that come on us at a time of PNL or at a time of fantastic decrees. No, no, We need, and I repeat again here, a study of the impact of demographic change on education for the next 10 or 15 years. I'll ask the counselor every time one of these issues comes up, because if we're not like this, "don't shut down a crowd while there's the concert, I don't know what I don't know how many"... No! We need a projection, from which we will certainly deviate, but at least we will have an idea at 10 or 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u31	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u32	Gracias, president. Well, a maximum is met in this Parliament: every time there is a proposal signed unanimously, every political party is more committed to expressing the differences that separate them from that supposed agreement. But, finally, I believe that the agreement must prevail in the end. Well, the Socialists have always defended and we will continue to defend quality public education in Basque and ensure equal opportunities for all. Concerted private centres – here I suppose there will be differences of opinion on this issue – are born with democracy, when the public system expands in such a way that it is insufficient and impossible to register the existing number of students. Private schools have been established in Spain since the mid-19th century, owing to the high demand for schools and the difficulty of the State in setting up public educational centres. It was with a law that we passed with the Government of Zapatero in the year 85, the Organic Law on the Right to Education, which established the criterion that, wherever public institutions did not arrive, the State could finance private centers that fulfilled a social function and that operated under the criteria of gratuitousness and non-segregation in the admission of students – that declaration of principles is the one that inspires, to a large extent, what we are going to approve here today. In this way, many private centres have become concerted centres, as complements to the public network to meet this growing demand. We must recognize that the Basque public school had a great improvement, both qualitative and quantitative. We consider it to be the axis of the education system. That is why we have always worked for their improvement, and we will continue to do so, so that it remains the axis and centre of the Basque educational system. We have it clear: the formation from childhood to the end of working life is the trunk axis to recover the head, the leadership of Euskadi, and definitely get on the train of the 21st century. And our obligation is to defend and guarantee the right to the best quality public education available to all children, ensuring adequate public supply, at all levels and in all forms of education, which respects educational and equitable criteria, benefits students and offers equal opportunities. Our aim is very clear – and we have repeated it on several occasions – and is to promote a great educational pact culminating in a new Basque law on education, which recognises the essential role of public school, a public education that guarantees equal opportunities and is of quality. But we understand the reality of our educational system – the Basque, I mean – and the right that families have to enroll their children in a particular school, and what we cannot allow is that there is no gap between networks or between educational institutions in the same community. It is therefore necessary to establish regulatory bases for the financing of the whole system because there cannot be inequalities between the two educational models. And one thing is clear, and it is that any centre that is supported with public funds must have the same rights and obligations. And it is becoming increasingly apparent that this inequality between the two models – the public and the private – is flourishing: the weight of the public school in foreign enrolments is increasing, for example, than that of the concerted – not only the public network, but especially some centers of the public network. And here there should be an equity between the two networks which, unfortunately, is not given for many reasons, among them, we understand that there cannot be classes in which 70% of students, in some cases, are foreign, as is being given. That's not integration, neither of them. The level of the classes should not always be adapted to the level of the students, but to the contrary, the students must have the means and the capacity and resources to follow the levels that are taught. It is therefore our duty to combat segregation and social exclusion and to work for inclusion, integration and equal opportunities. We stand in favour of this struggle, of a society without segregation, and the Basque public school must be the tool to channel this social gap, but obviously the help of the concerted is also needed. The changes that have taken place in recent years in our environment – cultural changes, socio-economic changes – have drawn a very diverse society, and, in this context, education policy should be the driving force, the factor involved in promoting social cohesion, promoting an intervention that, with an inclusive character, must focus on inequalities and promote equal opportunities. And that is why measures must be taken to encourage and help the integration of students, with quality and also effective public policies, because the subject of segregation is very sensitive and deserves a lot of work to achieve solutions. And another point is the economic resources, but more important than that is only their efficiency and effectiveness, because we have been able to verify that in other communities, with less economic resources, they achieve better results than the Basque Country. Therefore, it is noted that we have a wide margin of improvement and work must be done to reach an optimal point. We have a powerful education system, with expectations, that works to reduce inequalities between students, and that must continue to work and take steps not to fall into a two-speed system. It is true that there are many problems; it is not, much less, all lost; we must continue to work to ensure equal opportunities and to guarantee schooling in terms of equality and quality for all pupils in the autonomous community. That is what this proposal for today wants to talk about. And continue to work with all educational agents, always seeking to advance in a plural, inclusive and quality public system. And that also requires a well-trained, competent, motivated and committed teacher to the progress of the students. That is why public offers of employment are so important, because they guarantee, among other things, the stability of the education system and reduce the rate of interinity. That is why we reiterate: we defend the quality inclusive, equitable and innovative school, in order to achieve greater balance, social cohesion and coexistence, with the Basque public school as the central axis, like the whole system. We must improve the quality of the education system, by making progress in greater and more efficient resource management, by having the pupil at the centre of the education system and by ensuring equal opportunities. Today's text probably does not satisfy the maximums of any of the political parties that we are in the House, so this is a compromise amendment. The virtue is to find a minimum common denominator, which is absolutely essential to find it on such a transcendent theme for any society, and for Basque as well, as is education. And that same spirit of achieving a minimum common denominator should also inspire the implementation of the new Education Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u34	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. Well, I want to impress you, too, because this initiative has been slumbering in this legislature for 20 months, and at least it seems surprising to us. It's true that we've been talking about a lot of things that might have something to do with this time, about what's going on here, about what's happening, about what's going on, about the conditions, the treaties, the resources... But to-day, poppread all of them. Therefore I don't think that we can say anything new or new to-day, either of us or others, but at least we have arrived at a written agreement, which is little of the argument, it seems to us a pleasure to us, but unfortunately, we have heard in the mouths of certain speakers more reversal than they received from this written agreement. I thought it was a prejudiced initiative when I first read it. For in the first place, the nature of our education system, the avenue of decades, is considered abnormal. It will have natural features compared to other systems, but it is true that it has been built and strengthened among them all, and that is undoubtedly normal, normal, and common. Bigarrenik, egia ez den bayeztapen potolo bat egiten da, halaxe said: "... there is a clear tendency to bet on private education-concerted as a model of management and, on the contrary, it lacks "a firm bet for public school". Ikusi besterik ez daude zenbaki eta datuak, objectiboki hori egia ez dela jakiteko. Legebiltzar honoren eta marritarren eskura daude datu horiek. Almost a quarter of the whole budget project for 2019 was located in the education camp. You know, it was about 2.845,4 million dollars, but it was 4% more. And you know better than that a very important part of this investment is directed to public education. The Basque Government guarantees and will continue to guarantee essential public services, including education in a very important way. It should continue to provide sufficient funding to the Department of Education to further advance the quality of the system as a whole. Progress must be made on issues that have already been mentioned here, such as scholarships, to promote equality in access to education, technological and pedagogical modernization, extension of multilingual projects, measures that promote greater balance, social cohesion, interculturality, coexistence in centres, educational infrastructure, etc. Other assertions that we don't share are also made in action. For example, that there is no guarantee of Equity, and Society, but in the favour of the Publique Education; and we entirely reject it. That's not true, not even fair. Public education no doubt presupposes an important column of our system, but all the rest of the educational community, which is not the public, has, in its everyday life, made an excellent contribution to euscal society. It is true that such explanations define the context of action, and are not very helpful as a starting-point, but we all made an effort. I'll give up a few more allusions to Mrs. Macazaga's, and I'd like to go to the accounts received on the initiative, in fact, I'm afraid there's been very little talk about the part of the actually voting initiative. In the first place, as to the closing or closing of rooms or schools, the euscal society has many challenges, and no doubt for the next few years and decades one of these challenges will be a demographic, it will have a remarkable place. We often speak of the influence which it exercises on the pension system, on the model of families, on the care of care, on the offer and application of social services, but even on the education system it affects the effect of this demographic challenge. Childhoods are the axis of the educational system, and, alas, different reasons are born less and less. Ms. Ubera said to face this demographic challenge, it sounds like we're doing it because school should be fulfilled. I don't know where he's got such a confirmation, but we must be convinced that it's a fact, that it's a reality between us, and that so long as several proposals and actions are put into action in order to turn back in the next few years, the first conclusions are between us, and we must give them an answer. In the case of the compacts, as well as the public, several of the schools have also been provided for. In the past, we had known them in the public network, or in the treaty, at the moment when some of the neighbors had grown old, new, and new, and the necessity of education had obviously changed. No one likes to close several rooms or schools, not even for a patrician or an Board of Education, but we cannot deny that the means should be carefully and efficiently used, and that to make decisions or solutions of new situations, always the circumstances, the properties of the environment, and the other criteria. In the second place, the students were mentioned who needed special or specific educational needs. No doubt it's a challenge to the Board of Education to give each student an answer to what every moment of his training process is required. That's why it's up to the Board of Education and every school to make a contribution to that job. We don't say that schools should do it all by themselves. Schools must be taken from the Board of Education and from the neighbouring Institutions. It is necessary to give specific treatment to those who have the greatest difficulty to learn, to those who are new to come, and to those who have great abilities, that is to say, equity. That was one of the points we discussed. We said that the administration ought to continue in the administration of the finances of the whole system, and always the student to be a axis, to ensure the equality of possibilities and social justice and equity. As for the third point, we discussed this for a long time in the February that went on. Even then we said that the law must be about education, that it was different that schools should be able to ask families for other features, or for other services. For this reason we did not agree with the original writing of the initiative, but added that from the point of view of what had been foreseen in the year 1/2018 Decree the Boards of Education were to be assured, both by common usage, and by what means of the guarantees of the land, that the rights and duties which are established in the rule are fulfilled. That's how we got our eubertists in the USR and the Socialists' correction. We've all made an effort. As Mr. Pastor was probably saying, we were all more fond of our original initiative in the case of Dogeh, but I think we've all been ploddingly in order to get this agreement, one way or another, to ask the department for a public inclusive, ectivative, and a newsman. Let us, on the other hand, consider the project of the school, and the benefit and wealth, which the nearness of it supposes. To give an answer to the variety of students, to share the efforts of all schools and of the surrounding institutions. And finally, the right of choosing a school for children, and a project, is mentioned by the law, and the work of Vision, to secure the rights and duties granted to the rules. We believe that we have obtained a good agreement, that we are more pleased with our corrections, but that the agreement is good, and that it would be well for us, ye promoters, to believe in this agreement, to make this agreement, to advance in that concert. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u35	Thank you, Mrs. News. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Macazaga, from there, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u36	As there was agreement from all groups, I did not intend to intervene, but I do want to clarify that, of course, if EH Bildu had an attack on Elkarrekin Podemos in the defense of the public, he was wrong. You will know the complexes that EH Bildu has in relation to his defense in the public. Elkarrekin We may not have backpacks and, above all, we will make a clear speech in defense of the Basque public school. We thought that this was the first initiative on education and that it was important that we all agreed to urge the Government that public school should be the centrepiece of the Basque education system. To Mrs. Juana Bengoechea, simply tell her that she has only shown a black and white photograph of 18th-century education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u38	The only backpack we have is the backpack we wear when we go to the mountains. If you don't have backpacks and better not have a bag, it's not good for your back. I don't know if I misunderstood. What I meant was with the discourses we often make, all of us, but to this day it seemed to me to have been very remarkable in your discourse; and we often do, in the discourses we make of them, it may be understood, that the public school is despised, and that we afterwards exclude it. I know it is not easy to publish the photographs of a state in a discourse, but it seems to me that we should often, instead of speaking negatively, speak positively, and speak otherwise, do more good to the public school. And what I mean is another second idea. At this moment, well, as I said before, it was obvious that our education model is exhausted. And, in fact, education is at last an instrument to answer to people and to a society, it is no end. And it seems to me that we often confuse him. An organizational model, a financial model... But that was for a transition, to give an answer to a concrete society, but this transition is over, society has changed. And now we need to improve, change, make new times, and we're chained in the past. And I think this moment, with the development of our demography, our crisis, we should take advantage of the way we look up and actually take a turn and not perpetuate the pattern. That's where he has to be brave. I'm conscious, I'm aware that it's hard because we're pushing forces in our everyday life. And it's very difficult to look up, raise your head, and at the same time look at the long term-term policies, but we have to do it. Because it's not because we say it, all the results, all the reports, all the last years, are terrible! They're awful! If you're saying, "Bueno, we've gone a little backward in academic results in excellence, but we've gone up in equity... "but we didn't do that either. We have receded in equity, we have receded in academic results, and yet we do not say Exodus to the academic results of 2009, and ISEI-IVEEI says we have not arrived. We have all the diagnosis done, but we're not able to answer it because of the complexs. Yes, sir, there are some complex ones there. And there we all have to make an effort, or we're going in the same way as society. And I just want to think that we want to be ambitious like society, like a village. We've got a lot to play and we can't stay in this dynamic for more years. So, at this time, the rate of birth is smaller and the license plate down... What we can't do is increase the confession and throw more wood into the fire. We should be able to take a turn, order, other organizational conditions, a financial model, autonomy, other policies... And we have a long list there. We have a long list. But we have to grow up, we'll have to get hold of him sometime, or somebody'll have to do it. And that requires dialogue and unfortunately... Today, well, the agreement is very positive, but what we need here is a deeper discussion and negotiation, and it's gone. He's not here. And this demands that in other conditions, in other spaces, and not in politics, we look into the media, right? And over there, I think we all have to think about us, we have to do our own self-critics, but we need to hide ourselves. And it's true, we miss the Board of Education, it shows lack of capacity, and we need the courage, the leadership. And the government is about to lead, it's about to make politics. And every one must perform his proper function, whether he likes it or not, for good and for evil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours. From
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u40	You hear that, don't you? With your permission, from the seat, Madam President. Well, the first thing I'm going to say to Mrs. Macazaga, who says that I've taken a black and white photograph of the 18th century, I was referring rather to the 19th century, and the problem is that at that time there was no color photography. Well, apart from that, I will confine myself to reading what guides our action on this issue, and I believe that in all these matters, in this Parliament. Let's see. Article 27.1 of the Constitution states: "1. Everyone has the right to education. Freedom of education is recognized." And, "4. Basic education is compulsory and free of charge." And those who believe that this is a sort of thing that has happened to the constituent parents of the Constitution, no, this is transposed from all laws, both state and international. Similarly, we are based on Article 16 of the Statute, which states: According to "the provisions of the first additional provision of the Constitution, it is within the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to teach in all its extent, levels and degrees, modalities and specialties, without prejudice to Article 27 of the Constitution – which I have just fixed – and Organic Laws which develop it, of the powers conferred on the State by Article 149", etc., etc. But I just want to say that in the founding texts, both of the Constitution, which is not a rarity, because it happens in all countries, and of our Statute, the word that always appears is "freedom of education". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u41	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Pastor (Euscal Socialist must not speak.) And eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u42	Thank you, Chief. I don't know, Mrs. Macazaga, we're not going to talk about your initiative this second round, we're all talking about something else, but, well, it's okay. A few months ago this Parliament approved "that the right to education in terms of universal law leads to regard education as a public good, which must therefore develop around common elements such as equity, coexistence, cohesion, quality, etc., and be subject to common standards...". And "both the universal right of citizens to receive quality education, and the corresponding institutional obligation to make it effective, such as the assumption of values, which must necessarily be common to society as a whole, must be developed through effective educational policies that allow us a more just, supportive and democratic society, identifying all this as a fundamental public service". Our group believes that we should continue to bet decisively on that educational system from each and every one of the centres. Let's just stop arguing about headlines...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u43	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u44	And let us moderate ourselves in what is truly important: In students and student education processes. Eunerative patriots will never underestimate public schools or underestimate them. How do we underestimate the work and contributions that half our system does? But I say the same of the different projects in the bond. We don't underestimate them or underestimate them. I don't know if any teams can say the same thing. As far as the media is concerned, Mrs. Rebeka Ubera, I think you know better than you do that the Board of Education does not make politics looking at media. In the first place, it is the party who has set up the project, together with the education unit, to reflect on the matters that are important. There was no room for communication in all these meetings. What we hear in the media is noise and noise from some opposition groups. In fact, they think they're doing a great deal of good in dealing with the educational system, and I really think they're very wrong. Our group recognizes that the Basque education system is part of a previous consensus that, as embodied in the Basque Public School Act, has lasted so far, and in this regard we encourage the Basque Government to continue working on the path of agreement that guarantees an adequate Education Act at the time, looks to the future and leaves no one behind, an integral and inclusive law that defines the objectives, principles and values that should guide the Basque education system of the future. We've been able to agree on a medium, because we've all been flexing for the day. Let's hope that when the bill closes, we can act the same way, and don't hesitate to keep the courage and the leadership together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u45	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Popula, Euscal Sociales, EH, and the Eurobertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u46	Therefore, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted Five point in theme list: "As the Parlamentarian Parlamentarian Group did, the Logistican of the House of Bilbo Labour, and the Housing A to secure the example in the Transport cycle. The peace and the eternal resolution of the cow. It's the caller's turn. So, Mr Barrio, representing the Basque Potula Group, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u47	Egun on, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselor. The initiative that we are presenting – I am not going to extend much – is a specific issue, it is a result of the concern, the concern that this parliamentary group gathered in July through parents of pupils and pupils, to which I am going to refer now, in relation to an enrolment of Vocational Training in Bilbao, in particular in the Zabalbburu centre – a concerted centre – and also in relation to the language models to be implemented in relation to vocational training cycles. We are faced with a non-legislative proposal that has to do with the freedom of choice of language model, such as the freedom of choice of centre or the freedom of choice of study, mode, degree, cycle, of what is referred to in this case to vocational training. A debate that we have had on other occasions in this House, but which we are moving again today after checking the dysfunctions, the poor organization of a system that limits the ability of parents and students to choose about education and models. We presented the initiative in July. At that time we were aware of the fact that several dozen students of Vocational Training of the Zabalburu Center – a concerted center – were left out of space by the removal of the Spanish classroom, of model A, in the higher degree of Logistics and Transport, in favor of a single classroom of model B, an issue not desired by the students, who opted for model A. The criterion of making only one classroom, model B, was imposed, when there was much greater demand in Spanish, model A, and when there was capacity for teachers and facilities to organize the two classrooms. According to information from the Basque Government itself – we asked a few questions, a request for information from the Basque Government in relation to these extremes – according to the adviser, 69 requests were made in model A (69) and 24 in model B (24) at the Zabalburu centre. That is, almost three times more in A than in B, three times more, and only one classroom was organized: model B. Well, one thing is to give priority to the euskera and another is to act in this disproportionate way, to the detriment of the students who choose in a massive way model A for Logistics and Transport – in this case – in the center Zabalburu, the offeree. That is true, because it is a concerted centre, it is not supported by the creation of a classroom of model A; it is done in the Portugalete public center of FP, but not in the concerted centre of Bilbao, being three times more, the triple of requests for model A than for model B, right?, in this concerted centre of Bilbao. And that, from our point of view, is an approach to this objective situation, for it is not right. There was possibility, there was possibility to put class in model A, to have put class in model A, to think about it for future courses. There's a possibility, because there's a legal possibility. Because this isn't right, this isn't right. It is an unfair treatment, it is a discriminatory and disproportionate treatment in relation to this reality, with this qualification, with this cycle of specific vocational training, logistics and transport, and with the pre-registration and applications in relation to a linguistic model. In addition, it is certain that these kinds of actions which are not realistic, which are not part of the needs, go against the will, in the first place, of the students at the time of their vocational training, goes against the best results, undoubtedly academics, of the search for a quality education. These issues, which are organizational, but which are chained up in this way, run counter to the quality parameters and even to the link of the student. We read in a media outlet, in July, that some people had decided, at the time of the debate, then it is possible that I would enroll the child in Santander and other centres outside the Basque Autonomous Community, in relation to this issue. And there was a chance that I had done that in Bilbao, too. A center in Bilbao, with that big request for that model. Model A is where the demand is. And in Zabalburu there was demand, there was demand, indeed. There the situation was complicated to students, parents and the centre too, with the ability to teach, with teachers, with facilities, with possibilities. In other words, any family must have guaranteed its right to freely choose the education it wants for its children; parents must be able – and students must be able – to choose, with the slightest limitations, the centre and model in which children are to be studied. Moreover, this right is protected by our rules, by the Constitution, by the Statute, and by the right of parents to decide on the type of education they want for their children. The Basque Public School Act recognizes the right of parents of pupils to choose the models they wish, as well as the obligation of the public authorities of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to develop administrative mechanisms guaranteeing the freedom of such choice. I mean, we're talking about a point of order. But it is also a general problem in which we frame this issue: Basque society is a plural society and the citizens who make it up represent a different linguistic reality in which different socio-linguistic realities can be found, and this is an example. It is therefore a priority to defend the freedom of all citizens of the Basque Autonomous Community to receive the education they decide freely. And that is a case in point, but it is a case of general application. It seemed that in matters of vocational training, these limitations, these problems with models, with model A, were not as extensive as in others, but we see that yes, we see that yes, unfortunately, no? And it seemed that after having passed a law that could put into operation..., we began to find obstacles in relation to the organization of vocational training. After the completion of the pre-maturity period, we have seen and recorded, as we said before, that although there was sufficient demand to create a model A in the Logistics and Transportation Center of the Zabalburu School of Bilbao, it has been decided only model B, although there were sufficient requests to form another group in model A, as it was in the center of Portugalete. I mean, that's the reality, that's the situation. We have presented this initiative in response to the concern of parents, in response to the concern of students about this created situation, waiting and thinking that this can be fixed and that it must be fixed, in relation to these magnitudes that we have seen. I say again, the school of Zabalburu –concerted: A, 69; B, 24. I mean, it's the triple model A that model B! In the center Repelega, in A there were 98 – almost 100–; in B, 69; in D, 30. I mean, logically, the other place was that there was triple. I mean, it's a favor, it's a deal. It had to be encouraged, because there were mechanisms that the regulatory regulation itself indicated that the Vice-Adviser of Vocational Training could make decisions so that these issues could be organized and made. We have already seen that there is an amendment of the whole, but the amendment of the whole, logically, does not speak of this situation, of this particular issue, of this college, of this situation in relation to model A. And he talks about the fact that – in his second paragraph – "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue, in the framework of linguistic planning in vocational training, and respecting the linguistic model structure of each centre, to respond, to the extent that there is, to the existing demand in model A". It's just that it hasn't been done here! It's not done here! And it's an injustice. I mean, let's see how this situation evolves and let's see if we're taking action so that next year... That is, the triple of students who require or ask for model A and who are again faced with a problem of these characteristics in relation to what are their possibilities of studying in Bilbao, where they had asked to study, and not to have to move to other places, or to change the cycle of Vocational Training unfairly. There's a chance. We are talking about studies, logistics, transport today, that is, with many jobs, with needs in many companies – we all know them: large areas, airports... Then, you have to change because there is no model A in the study center and you have to change to another cycle. We understand it as an imbalance, as a disproportion. If the initiative is not approved, we ask at least that there be a reflection on the part of the department – and I see that you are interested in the matter – there should be a reflection on this issue. We'll move it to him. And, of course, we will continue to support those families, those parents, those students who want to study in model A and do not leave them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u49	All right, today is the day of education in this plenary. Not one or two, but three initiatives in this regard. We now have a non-legislative proposal from the People's Group on the Zabalburu College, which is a vocational training centre, as Mr Barrio has said, in addition to providing baccalaureate. Both stages are not compulsory education, so we cannot adjust or regulate ourselves by the Basque Public School Act, but by Law 4/2018, of Vocational Training of the Basque Country, which is the law that concerns this case. But it is true that the public authorities have to guarantee sufficient mechanisms for the free choice of the language model of pupils. One of the educational principles of this centre – the Zabalburu school – is to promote the normal and non-discriminatory use of the two official languages, encouraging the integration of each person in their sociocultural environment. The Socialists have always defended – and we continue to defend – the freedom of linguistic choice and we defend it for a fundamental reason, because the advance of the co-official languages, the advance of the Basque and the Castilian, must be complementary. To this end, the use of both languages must be guaranteed by expressing it in the free democratic choice of each student or his or her family member to choose the vehicle language they prefer. What we are clear is that language should never be an obstacle or impediment to the learning and study of any course, cycle or school stage for any student. Our Statute of Autonomy states in its article 6 that the Basque language, the language of the Basque people, has the character of official language in the autonomous community together with the Spanish and that all its inhabitants have the right to know and use both languages. In other words, everyone has the right to freely use the language he prefers for his educational and professional development. Therefore, there should be no case in either language, because they can freely, we must and we can choose in which language we develop. The model in which they want their children to study, including what the pupils themselves decide, must be guaranteed effectively and effectively, but always taking into account the feasibility and the demand for certain cycles. In other words, effectively ensure the choice of the language model when there is sufficient demand. This situation is solved with prior planning, analyzing objectively whether there is the possibility or not, depending on the actual demand, to establish the model that is imparted for a given cycle, whether it is imparted in both models or only in one of them. But what is clear is that mechanisms and alternatives must be sought so that the language in which you want to study can be chosen with certainty, because it must always be viable, provided that there is a demand and that demand is contrasted and sufficient. We understand that we have two official languages. Students who choose to enrol in language model A should not be required to be insufficient to meet their demands, and models should be offered in accordance with the quality and quantity of their demand. They should not be political but pedagogical issues. The configuration of the education system has its characteristics, as it is, it is a bilingual education system and we must respect it as such. That is why we have tabled the following amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party, in which we urge the Basque Government, on the basis of Law 4/2018 on Vocational Training, to ensure the normalized presence of the Basque language in the vocational training system, thereby implementing the general language provisions so as to ensure that the two official languages are properly mastered. Finally, within the framework of language planning in vocational training, and respecting the language model structure of each centre – in this case the Zabalburu College – continue to meet, to the extent that there is, the demand in model A. What is surprising, Mr Barrio, is that, having a tremendous concern for some of the parents of this school, you have not taken the trouble of talking to any group in this House to try an approximation or to arrive at a compromise amendment. It's like you want to go out to the gallery and sell the product to one of the parents to tell them, "Captain Thunder
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, good day to all of you. A previous question, Mr Barrio, the adviser, which you say is not of interest to you in vocational training, is currently in Brussels at one of those meetings which we are being called to Euskadi for being a pioneer in the field of vocational training, in which Europe is very interested in what we are doing. But for starters, let's start with the facts and count all the facts as they are. You will know, Mr Barrio, that there is an order, of 27 April 2016, which is the one that plans everything relating to the agreed centers, and based on that planning also plans the cycles, the courses that each one will give in bilingual model. It's the centers that choose. I mean, no one's forcing it. It is the centers that choose in which language model they will teach the cycles and, in this case, the center of Zabalburu has chosen to do it in models B, bilingual, between Basque and Castilian. It is true that there was a major demand for model A. You will know that, especially in the cycles of post-compulsory education, model A petitioners have a linguistic profile, let's say, heterogeneous What was done was to invite those who fulfilled this profile to sign up for the cycle in model B and the rest have been found, in the center of Repelega de Portugalete, their accommodation, in the cycle of Logistics and Transport they asked for, and based on the linguistic model they chose, because we respect so much or more than you the freedom of choice. Sure, why wasn't it possible in Zabalburu? It was not possible because on the basis of this planning it was not possible to arrange more classrooms and what has been done is to take them to the public center of Repelega, in Portugalete, so that they have the training they asked for, in the language model they asked for. I really, when I received the proposal, the non-law proposal, the question I was asking myself was where the problem was. Was it a low point to go from Bilbao to Portugalete, from a concerted center to a public center, distance, the change of municipal term...? Because the distance, in fact, is the same as between Miñano and Armentia, for example, with an eye of good cover. If the problem is that one more classroom has not been agreed, in this case in model A, it is because of the normative impossibility to do so. There is no reason to look for more ghosts, being that the choice of that linguistic model was taken by the center. Of course, in that sense, you were asking us, at your second point, to agree on a new classroom in the Zabalburu centre, when the existing rules themselves and planning do not allow it. With which, having to do it ad hoc I believe that what we should all welcome is that in an area such as vocational training, where the normalisation of the use of euskera is lagging behind the rest of the education system, we should be able not only to offer a higher degree course in Logistics and Transport, but also to have a group to be able to do so. Because you give great importance to socio-linguistic realities on this subject, and I will not be the one to deny that importance. But sociolinguistic realities are living realities, they change, they evolve, they move. And I think we should be congratulated. And I don't think it's ballad the fact that for today, in the Zabalburu center, for example, by setting an example, in Bilbao, with the sociolinguistic reality that exists in this city, we can offer and have a group and also give preference, regardless of the quantities of petitioners that each linguistic model may have. I will read you our amendment – I believe that Mr Pastor has already done so. Our amendment basically says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, on the basis of Law 4/2018 on Vocational Training of the Basque Country, to ensure the normalized presence of the Basque language in the vocational training system, thus implementing the general provisions in language matters, so that the two official languages are properly mastered by those who carry out the training activities, extending the bilingual model of Basque and Spanish". Second point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, within the framework of linguistic planning in vocational training, and respecting the linguistic model structure of each centre, to continue to respond, to the extent that there is, to the existing demand for model A". What do you disagree with? Because the first point is literal of what the explanatory statement of Law 4/2018, of Vocational Training, which you supported and, if memory does not fail me, in this respect did not make any amendments. And the second, its structuring is based on article 27 of the same law and I believe it attends to the will that, for example, the lehendakari Urkullu usually describes with "not leaving anyone behind". Take care of that will. So, where do you see the problem? Besides, I think we should focus the argument. Are we talking about parents, are we talking about a cycle of post-compulsory education? They're adults. They're not parents. They are not fathers and mothers, sons and daughters. It is that you, starting from the justification, tell us that the Constitution establishes, and it is true, the right of parents to decide on the type of education they want for their children and then, in the same sense, tells us what the Basque Public School Act says. And in the first point of its operative part it speaks of the same, of effectively guaranteeing freedom, the right of families, etc. All right. But let us focus the debate, because we are talking about adults and adults. We're talking about seniors. With this, I believe that first point falls by its own weight. And I agree with what Mr Pastor has said: we have not received any proposals or calls to try to agree on anything. With which, really, at least it's eye-catching. Therefore, I would encourage you to focus the debate, because we are not talking about parents, that this is usually your big argument in the educational world, "parents and mothers, children and daughters"; we are talking about a cycle of post-compulsory education and we are talking about adults and adults, older people. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. We're going round the teams that don't run, together, Podemos. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u53	Good morning. Well, I'll prove what it's like not to criticize the government. Together from Podemos we won't protect Carmélo Barrio's initiative, because yesterday, half joking, I said, "que no había caso." That's why we're not gonna protect him. This project presented by Popular Party has to be a much wider stare to find out what reality is. If we see any particular case, we may think that there is no opportunity to learn about a young man in a profession, but what usually happens is, that there is less opportunity to learn of resistance. Looking at the data of the Board of Education, only 41% of the students learn it from the cradle, and almost. 60% of Spanish. A few years ago the plan for the euphoric education of the profession was set up and it's true that the use of the sustain has gone up, but there's still a lot to do. A plan to euskaldunize vocational training which was very progressive, which is very progressive, which is built, as has already been explained, with the educational centres themselves. We would probably have to talk about successes, we would have to talk about failures, we would have to talk about areas of improvement of that plan, but that is not the objective of this initiative of the People's Party, so I will leave it for another time. We do not support the first point because it is a debate, for example, that has already taken place in the previous point, but that if we speak it without taking into account economic and other conditions that condition in a much more radical way than the one you are explaining or proposing the choice of centers, both in basic and vocational education, and also in university, it is a false debate and a false controversy. In the part of compulsory education, it has already been discussed at the previous point, and it is a step the agreement has been reached, insufficient, but it is a step, and we will all have to work in that direction. Nor do we see the second point which is more direct to the enterprise. The high school, following its Euscaldecation plan, gave the opportunity to learn its eucalycation in the Transport and Logistic cycle, and formed a group, although at this moment there was a free square. And there were also plates of example A, like the data you gave them, and as we see in the data sent by the department. In the Zabalburu school, therefore, this group is created – already explained – of Basque, and the Vice-Adviser of Vocational Training, analyzing that this center already has the top of concerted classrooms –of concerts, therefore – proposes a new group in Portugalete to meet the demand in Spanish. I do not know how far Mr Urrutia has pointed out, but from Bilbao to Portugalete there is much less than from Bilbao to Cantabria, which is the problem you were talking about. It could have focused its initiative, rather than in a specific case, on the opening of more public centres or the development of an FP in which public centres have greater weight, but no, it wanted to focus on the opening of a more concerted classroom in a concerted vocational training centre. Nor has he contacted me, although I asked him last week for this initiative; neither was there a will to agree on what it seems, because he did not contact me even to ask for the meaning of the vote. In any case, you proposed opening a more concerted classroom; we, of course, as is known, are not in favour of that model. It is a model that exists and needs to be managed, but we are not going to allow a concerted classroom to be opened if a public classroom can be opened. It is not today's debate either. We'll leave him. That is one of the differences we have with the Government, which we maintained in the Vocational Training Act, but I say again, as I said at the beginning, that in this particular case there is no case. We believe that things have not been done wrong, that all the people who wanted to study in the Zabalburu center are studying in the Zabalburu center in Basque and the people who wanted to study in Spanish are studying in Portugalete. In addition, in a public center, of quality, as is the center of Repelega. We shall therefore vote against the initiative of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u54	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u55	Well, how easy a family rights are to choose. Besides, it is impossible to understand how this right is justly used to limit the rights and chances of the students, Mr. Barrio. For, in this case, it is just used to reduce the possibility of entering into the work-world, because it is proved that the more language is the better language, the easier it is to insert into the world of labour. And there is no doubt that in all the reports of all the experts there is proof of the capacity of euphora, and that the use, the harpsichord, is the key, to introduce it into the working world, is it not? So we can't go against the future of the students, the future of our young ones. We have to make a means for these young people to open the gates for the future, to make the best of them. But, Mr. Barrio, I don't know exactly what you're looking for. But if it's your goal to imagine that the young man's a distraction in his careers, that he's out of line, you're a lawyer. You're a real lawyer. In the fields of business, except for a few exceptions, the discriminated one is at rest. There is hardly any presence in the profession case. Look, even those who choose the D type, even those who choose the D type, don't even have a guarantee that they'll be able to do it in a D model. I can bring here a thousand examples of what happens every year at the beginning of the year. It's very common: They ask for a D pattern and they put B on the model, or A on the model. Moreover, the B standard of the Educationan profession is very like a model A. In the fields of the profession, in the normalization of the eucaia, there is almost the whole way to do it. And it is not because we say that EH Collect says it, but it has been confessed to us by the Schools of EH in the most Basque places and of the eucalyptic cloisters: the normalization of the eucalyptus is very green in the mass of the profession. And what happens every year at the time of the plate station is, it's true, it's very difficult to understand. Students require the example of D and the B erection or the sowing A. Then I think you're a very practical lawyer. And besides, eucaly and youthful, both are official languages of our community, both or both. On the other hand, in the course of the non-unibertsitarian course of education, the students who come to professions, it is supposed, in theory, that they must be acquired. And you know what happens to them? Although D comes from the model, all studies are made in the D model, they have no guarantee that they will make the D model. And I am going to say more: The saddest thing is that students who are coming out of their necessary education now have a very poor level of eucalyptus. Just seeing the results or the latest diagnosis of evaluation, isn't it? So, what's going on here is that we throw those who come to business attacks into youth, that the pattern of divesting is that of youth in Hebrew professions. That's the reality we have. Chasing the future, reducing their faculties, the less their language, the less their preparations for the work-world. That's what we have. And we'd need the most qualified employees. At this moment, the English is in fashion. All right, all right. And to the euska? It's an official language. Qué pass? What's going on? No? In the end, we must think of the students, we must think of the future, and, of course, of euphorating the working world in this way too, but we are very far away. And, no doubt, we ought to be playing in the profession books where education was at its very moment in a non-unibertsitarian society, where the bet was made, professors, to make eupascals, because there's one of the main problems there. But we do not understand what difficulties or difficulties there are in this. When we introduced our legal proposal to the army, we made the precise suggestion in this sense, but we did not succeed in obtaining any majority. And in truth, when we are told of the model of language in the schools, we have many doubts whether schools have a pattern of language.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u57	Thank you, President. Of course I do, Mrs Ubera, if we are to agree that progress must be made, that it is good for students to know the Basque language more and more. These steps are taking, of course, they are taking place and increasingly firmly, but we have to recognize what has to be recognized, that they were three times as many requests, we are not talking about three or four more or five more or ten more, no, they were three times as many requests in model A as in model B, in a concerted, quality, vocational training centre, the logistics and transport cycle that was now being demanded by young people... It was triple. And that's the way it is. To remove that possibility in that center, from that classroom, is to move forward? It's moving forward with imposition, isn't it, I guess, and that's not normal. Look, you're talking about model B, but, for example, at the Professional Training Center in Repelega there were: A, 98 applications, 98; B, 30. That's the reality. It is still the reality, to which we must respond, regardless of generating resources, of generating possibilities, of making the effort that this society is making to make progress in the knowledge of the Basque. That's there and that's it. Mr Pastor, completely agree: advance of the Basque and the Spanish, complementary. Here, logically, efforts are being made, and we will continue to support them, but before planning. Of course I do, prior to planning, and now I'm going to refer to it. But I did not say anything to you because the concrete approach disappeared in your amendment. Because, I say again, it was a concrete, not a general approach, a concrete approach to what happened at this vocational training college in Zabalburu, and that is why you were not talking about the logistics and transport cycle, nor about the situation generated, nor about the school itself and the situation that has been generated. So, of course, I saw that I wasn't going to get anything. If you saw any progress, any possibility, or you were interested in something, you would have told me too. You know this is a take and if, in the positive sense, many times. I mean, if they had any interest in anything, like Mr. Martinez Zatón, they would have told me. I had a very concrete and timely approach. And Mr. Urrutia tells me that... Well, "fathers", "mothers"... I've spoken, "fathers," "mothers," "students"... Indeed, it is an approach to these possibilities of choice. Students are helped by parents, parents are perfectly involved also in these cycles when they start to be adults and when they are adults of choice. It is a concert between them too, between that possibility of choice, indeed. And it's more, it's more, if they're adults and they have that choice of model to themselves, above, less if they are made to people with that capacity of choice, who then see frustrated those expectations, no longer through the mediation of their parents, but themselves in their capacity of choice. Well, it's even worse for me. In any case, as far as planning is concerned. "They could not be arranged any more," says Urrutia, "they could not be arranged any more because the order prevents it." No, sir. Article 10 of the order states exactly: "Own-initiative change in planning. "The modification of the planning may be proposed on its own initiative by the Vice-Adviser of Administration and Services for resolution by order of the Councillor of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, by instructing the corresponding file in the event that there is a need for students to attend school that makes the specified modification specified". And "indicated change" is that, if you can't program more than a model B classroom, but there's the triple, triple!, model A requests, you plan, the vice-advisor or the vice-advisor says, "Let's put in a model A classroom, because there's the triple of requests and we have the capacity, and I have the capacity, through the proposal made to me by the education counselor, to make this modification and implement this education." As simple as that, Mr. Urrutia, as simple as that. He was clinging to the order, and I, too, because the order gives that possibility and that is the fundamental element. I mean, and logically, as I said before, the whole amendment that you are presenting to us, logically, goes to the second point, "... respecting the structure of the language model in each centre, continue to respond, to the extent that there is, to the existing demand of model A." It's the opposite! You have done the opposite in the second paragraph of what happened in Zabalburu. Absolutely the opposite. And I've explained that to him very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u59	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Barrio, this department has met all the demands, all of them. It is true that in the centre it has not been possible, well, I have already told you why, but it has met all the demands, and a group has been set up in the center of Repelega de Portugalete to meet all those demands. And I told him on the first shift. After all, you yourself, in your justification, tell us about what the Basque Public School Act says and that is exactly what the department has done. It has respected the freedom of choice of the language models requested and has used the mechanisms to ensure that choice. You said that you had made progress – I think you told Mrs Ubera – that you had made progress with imposition. Where is the imposition? Where's the imposition, Mr. Barrio? If freedom of choice of language model is respected and mechanisms are used and regulations are respected, where is the imposition? Where is the imposition? That is, in the end you are asking us to amend the ad hoc, ad hoc rules. And in the same sense, "that we have not raised anything concrete about this center". I mean, you have to change orders, you have to change regulations, you have to change plans, only for a center of which you have heard and complained. Therefore, look, Mr Barrio, we continue to believe that here all those principles that you are talking about have been complied with and that, with regard to our second point, there is no contradiction but that no contradiction because all the cases have been dealt with, all the cases have been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Martínezon? I don't think Podemos should have a word together. Collect EH? He doesn't have to take the word. Now that we have finished our discussion, we shall put the original text of the proposition of Euskalia, the Potula. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 65; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u61	So, not allowed original text. We'll next vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukal Ascalialists in full-correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 36; the opposites, 18; the whites, 0; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u62	So it's accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary team has made, concerning the guidance of the Board of Education in the eyes of the Schools of Society. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mrs. Ubera, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u63	Good morning again. We still have education. If I were in the place of Mrs. Brusel, I don't know, but I'd be home by now, or rather I'd take the first initiative not to get into this situation, and I'd try to make every effort not to get to it. I know things aren't simple, and maybe I wouldn't get it or maybe I'd do wrong, but at least I'd try, I'd take action. We don't see any initiative in the section of Mrs. Uriarte's, we don't see any effort, but it's possible that the lawyers are here and that they're a disorganized photograph of reality. We believe that, and as far as we can see, the data is very remarkable. Look, at this beginning of year, the 11th grade of the Board of Education. We fought on the first network, and after many mutations the Board of Education was forced to move itself, he did nothing and didn't sit down to negotiate. However, the road is becoming steep. About the Segregation, what can I say? It's a lot of comedy to fill up the understruction in the school plans. In order to ensure the stability of the teachers and the continuity of the educational projects, what shall we say? A very long list. But in the place of a government, it always makes me understand how the Government moves after and when it is late and pressed. The Board of Education acts as if things weren't going with him. It is true, and it must also be confessed, that this government is very comfortable, that it does not pass any cost, and that, as I have said before, it works by means of communication, although the effects of students, citizens, and families are suffering. But the government doesn't have a discount. This time, at the beginning of the year, he's been calling for help the patriarchal of Christian schools, at this beginning of the year of learning, at the very beginning of the week's first act of learning, "Ah Sorr! Help! "To remedy or end the struggle with education and labor that lasts too long to lead a case too complicated and too ugly. And Mrs. Orriart, the head physician of the Board of Education, what has he done? What did he do? Do you keep staring at me another way? Continue irresponsible? Pretending to be a communicative, just like he's doing something, but not doing anything? Without coming to negotiations? As he's done at the beginning of the year, announcing that he's going to make more money for the settlements, but I want to remember that we agreed on February by 3/2019 law that he's already got more money, more than he's ever accepted in 2019. That's what he announced. Then, before that, he said that even for those who have special education needs, he would increase the measures when he was already high. In other words, give a stroke of the effect to confound public opinion, but without doing anything or actually taking hold of it, the root. And I want to remember that the Board of Education is part of and art in this matter, it's part and art. The Board of Education is the main patrician, because it sets the Norwegian frame to be followed in the pact. And how not, funding. At the present day, when 100 percent of the compacts are financed by 100 per cent per cent, modules are added, then every line, all the calls that come out for each project. Just like the public. So the Board of Education has a responsibility: to take the leadership, to lead them, to make a decision, to resist them. In this house, March 2019, we made an effort and made our agreement with the government, with the parts supported by the government, to make a minimum agreement. Our team pushed aside a lot of things, and we pushed him away from our judgment that it would help us to conduct this case, but the government didn't do it, and nothing happened, and there's no further progress. We know that before summer, a union has asked the government to move, it's a public ionation, which appeared in the media, but what we want to know is what's happened. So the government has moved? Did he join with the parties? Did he make an offer for negotiation? We'd like to know. We've also heard recently that a union has asked the government for a meeting. I don't know if there's any answers. The point is, when we saw the situation, we saw that we had to go back to the discussion, seeing that we are a group of oppositions where we are standing. I know you don't understand bringing this discussion here and you haven't seen it well. But what's left for us? What are we going to do? We're going to do it, aren't we? To follow the government, we're here to do the promotements and make the proposals. Perhaps, I don't know, it may be another way, I don't know if it has been explored in this Chamber, but I don't know whether it's a representative of the Board of Education to direct the intermediary and negotiation, or perhaps a delegation of the Justice and the Work Department. I don't know. It was a definite proposition that we brought to the argument today, and perhaps it would interest you, and I am grateful to you for this discussion. What we're asking is that the Board of Education be guided by a guidance to end the lockdown situation. And that's where we plan certain precise furrows: to consider the whole collective reconnaissance of the workers, the planning of wages, and the planning of extra hours reserved for personal work. We know it's a very complicated situation. Besides, with the downfall of the birth-rate we are entering, it still adds still more because of the consequences that will lead to the decline of the plate, the other, but no doubt the new cycle that we have entered, instead of using the struggle and conflict between the course of demography and the schools, we should see it as an opportunity to change the pattern of organisation that answers the past, turn round, turn back to the evolution of years in equity, and perfection... For that purpose, accepting a precursor law of possible education. Not that the present model will be stable and permanent, but that which will penetrate into a different pattern. But that's another discussion. We know: another discussion, but we must have it in mind. But to get to that discussion first. the conflicts we have in our hands must be solved It was also with the Republican Republic that we used to say when we fought. To change, our conflicts, our lawsuits, we must solve them. Why? To create conditions. We have to create terms. And this is one of them. And we'll have to do something, because it's a case that's already rotten. So, if the discussion tonight is helpful for this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u65	We bring back to this rostrum a subject that has come, unfortunately, too many times. And we think, as we said from the beginning, and we keep saying the same thing, this begins and ends with dialogue, understanding, agreement, negotiation, until we reach a solution, which we continue to think is possible. The first thing we want to defend is that we are faithful advocates of the public network and that it is a right that reaches everyone, that is of quality for all citizens, but we also understand the importance of the concerted network, and more so when they put in place different educational plans or projects that favor diversity. We had several meetings in the Education Commission on this subject, an issue that has been encrypted for months, many months, without reaching any real or realistic solution in which the parties are in agreement. And as we were having the appearances, we could see that the problem continued and that the solution was not advancing at all, I don't know if it was going to get worse, but of course it wasn't going to get better. We meet, I suppose the rest of the political groups also, with the representatives of the parents, the trade unions, the employers of the centres of social initiative, and we have not been able to develop the tree. And we find ourselves here before this subject again. A few months ago I felt skeptical about the possibilities of agreement. I would not like to be skeptical, but of course I have very much concern about how this situation is evolving, above all, I agree with Mrs Ubera, for the students, because after all it is they who lose, those who are paying the duck of this conflict: they lose their teaching hours, they lose their schooling and they are slowing down their future. And they should be the axis of everything, the students and the students, so I want to make a call again to understanding between the parties, because it is the only solution. It is necessary and convenient. We listen to the parents of the concerted school, and to the unions of the concerted school, and to the employer of the social initiative centres, and, if in other systems, such as in the ikastolas, for example, it was possible to reach an agreement with the same system of concertation of modules that the social initiative centres have, and they signed a collective agreement, we do not understand why what was possible to do in the ikastolas is not possible to do so in the social initiative centres, with practically identical problems between them. There it was possible, in the ikastolas; here it seems impossible. And I believe that in that case, in the case of the Ikastolas, a collective agreement was reached, and it also had something to do with the Department of Education in signing that agreement. And this case, we understand that it cannot be less and that we must reach among all of us a solution that is most beneficial to all the actors involved, always bearing in mind the role of the students. What we do not agree with is that this is solved alone or that it is solved only with money, which is another of the temptations that can be given. If we listen to the sector boss, "Give me more money and get out of the jam." We do not think that this is the solution, we are not about the work, because the more funds go to that sector, the less they will go to public school. And that's something we don't agree with at all. This situation is a labour dispute, at the moment, and the responsibility of the Department of Education is what it is. Of course, we agree that the necessary actions should be taken within the competence of the department. In fact, we all know that the department has met on numerous occasions with one another and with the other two at a time, to help unravel this problem, which in one way or another will have to be solved, because it is true that it is part of the educational network and it affects many Basque families. That is why we are pushing with the parties to the agreement and, in this case, in our amendment, we are referring to the Department of Labour, which you mentioned. But you are well aware that the Department of Justice and Labour cannot intervene in a conflict unless there is a request by the parties. You can't do it on your own. And that, not only has it not happened, but when I raised it, they refused to do so. They do not want the intervention of the Department of Labour; they want to solve it with the employer and through the Department of Education exclusively. And I think this is an instrument that we shouldn't miss the opportunity to use. As we also urge in our amendment the Department of Education to analyse updating the modules in the context of the budget law, not with extraordinary rewards. And finally, we urge that department, the Department of Education, to encourage, in view of demographic developments, a relocation agreement to maintain employment and quality. Because, no doubt, we will also get to that point: there will be a need to seek relocation to a part of the current workers of the network agreed in the centres of social initiative. I'm sure of it. Therefore, that is our port of arrival. We are not and do not have the opportunity, I would like to say, to resolve this conflict which is frankly in conflict, but I believe that with these three proposals – intervention by the Department of Labour if requested by the parties; intervention by the Department of Education, to the extent of its competences, updating the educational concerts within the budgets, and, on the other hand, studying the possible relocation of those professionals who need it after the definitive solution – I believe that we are opening a door out for a conflict that is already going on too long.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u67	Thank you, Chief. Good morning again. Well, Mrs. Ubera has brought us the initiative of a conflict with several of the schools in the compact network, asking us to work in the intermediary department of education. And, as he has brought it, we shall discuss it, but this legislature has already given its opinion in regard to this matter. We had a discussion on the Board of Education about this right. The equipment was also of the EH Union. At that time, he was asking the department to work for the repairing of the labor conflict which lived in several social schools. And the decision made by the Board of Education was as follows: "He's... ) The Legs (...) He asks the department that, based upon his responsibility, and within his jurisdictions, he may increase conversation and negotiation with different operators of education, the whole education system to improve. He also demands that several social schools should be connected with the unions and the different possibilities which may enable a greater understanding of the patricians. "And then he asks "Esquire-Mork" if both sides of the conflict are in order, to direct the intermediary of the Department of Work and Justice." In the course of the day, not only does he demand guidance and intervention of the Board of Education between the two sides of the conflict, but he wishes to assign responsibility to the Board of Education for the consent of the exact matter: the relocation of workers, wages, hours of development of one's own work, etc. Our party has clearly explained what his opinion is about all this. We discussed the initiative we had mentioned, the two sides of the conflict in different occurrences of the committee, and even in meetings proposed by the unions to our party. What is clear is that we are in the presence of a struggle of labor, a conflict between agents in the region of education, but in the end it is a conflict of labour. It is certainly a conflict of education, of students, of schools, of families, and in general of society. And the Jelt Party Jeltarian fights with great anxiety. The want of ability to communicate and to make an agreement between the parties makes us uneasy for the want of it, and, of course, for its consequences. We have repeated until we are tired that the conversation between the patricians and the workers' representatives is indispensable. They know very well that the attitudes and position shown to each other so far lead us to a state of endless locking and conflict, and that conflict is involved in the blind street. Besides, the maintenance of these attitudes and positions for so long a time supposes a great effort, fatigue, anger, and suffering to some and others; but these are all the days of strike which are the reflection of conversation and negotiation, and are the result of the failure of communication. Our team thinks it's time for us to get on with this subject in a different way. It is necessary that there should be a point of inflammation before it's too late because the Esscal education system is not worth the constant tension condition. For the second time, we ask the workers' representatives and patricians to go on the way of conversation and negotiation. Whether the Education Department should be As to the part in which it belongs, the occasion of the initiative says: "... The most disturbing of all is being the attitude of the Board of Education, or rather the lack of its initiative, for the sake of its responsibilities." It's not true, and the proposition knows it better than it is. Education is a public patrimony, and the department must have a constant relation to all the operators who form the discipline of education, as it has done in the last few months. The Education Department has had a close relationship with rhinpatronals, workers' representatives, families, at the beginning of the conflict, even at this moment. That's what our team asks of the Board of Education to keep the conversation, and to have a fair relationship with all the agencies that are involved: with the patricians, with the workers' representatives and their families. And so it has been, Mrs. Ubera. You know very well that he has always had meetings with the patricians, that he has taken different representatives of families and different unions. But let us not forget, that those who are subject to the contract of labour are representatives and patricians of the workmen, and that it would be an inference beyond that to any other. It is another question to act in the works of mediation. Patronals and workers know better than they do in their daily practice, that the Board of Education has no right to the intermediary of labour. And we know that, too, we all know that. It's another thing that you don't want to admit it, or if you're disappointed, you're trying to break that road. We all know that if there's any need for intervention, the parties must ask the Department of Job and Justice, and that they've never done it until now. We believe, indeed, that if the negotiations were not carried on, it would be worth while to make an effort and to be able to deal with this means of intermediary. It's an opportunity for the law. It's a tool. We really believe that in the situation we're in, we can't refuse anything. We have an unused instrument on the table and hasn't tried it yet. As for this arbitrator, mediator, or judge, I think we have a sufficient difficulty in agreeing with the positions of different subjects in our daily life, and in this particular matter; and I think there would be in this case a new application, which we do not know, and which we do not possess. We believe that the eubertist and the Socialists of the Basque Socialists are of the realist, intimidative, and respected by the sphere of jurisdictions. On the way, we're wondering if you're part of the social work contract to encourage the work department's broker. Secondly, we ask the department to check for updates of modules in the context of the budget. And finally, we demand that, considering the demographic development, the job may be maintained and the quality secure, a recomposition of reconnaisssance. The first propositions have already been made in this sense. On Friday when President Urkullu said he's gone, he won't close his eyes in front of the latest work on public services. That's why it's starting to be in progress to try and help the better part of the bond that's in conflict and improved education system. there is a constant connection with all the agents; the decision has been made to raise wages to the professors of the public or compact network, and for colleges with special needs of education, subsidies are increased by directing more than 2,3 million students, and the suggestion of recouping the professors by means of the downfall of the birth rate has been made. It is time, in our opinion, for this parliament, to make a parenthesis, and to speak truly, to give word to those who are obliged to dispute and agree. The things we had to say on our side were said and they were told. Yesterday, as I said to you, I don't think that this discussion, as with the others, has helped too much to remedy the conflict. I'd say it's totally the opposite. It is time, in our opinion, to lower the idle bulk of the noise and increase the confusion. Let us give the word to those who have skill and duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u68	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mrs De Bengochea, representative of the Basque Potion Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. As previous speakers have said, this is a subject that we repeatedly bring here, and I fear that we will continue to bring it, because we always talk about equity when we talk about Basque school and, if there is something that is not in Basque school, it is equity, equity between the part of the population that chooses concerted education and the part of the population that chooses public education. Mr. Pastor, I know what you're going to say, while we're campaigning, every time you come out, that you defend public education. He's always saying it. But I would tell the citizens one thing: as much as Mr Pastor, the Group of the European People's Party defends the Basque public school, what happens is that what we do not do is despise 50% of the population that freely chooses a concerted school. It's not about who defends who, but who despises who, who leaves out of protection who. And, as I said in the previous point, we defend both the public and the concerted. Let's see, this problem that we have here is going to continue until the Department of Education does not understand that with the crisis the modules were greatly reduced, not only the payment of personnel, but also the module of general expenses, that of investments, to a minimum amount. And now that it seems that, at least institutionally, regardless of what is to come, we are not in a crisis situation – the lehendakari was telling us about the zero deficit, etc., etc. – because it will be time to return, at least, to pre-crisis levels. And I've heard here, in this rostrum, in some previous speaker, "we know it's hard because there's no money, why don't I know what..." I always say, what do you mean, there's no money? There is money: between what we budget less, which we then enter more, and between what we do not execute, that this is what has happened since the year, which I know, 2017, since the end of the 2017 financial year, nobody can tell me that there is no money. We collect much more than we budget, and on top of that we do not execute everything that comes in the budget. So, please, I... At a time when there is real economic tension in the institution, we will never ask for miracles, but what we do not want to hear here is that at this particular moment there are economic difficulties, because there are no economic difficulties. Let's go to the lack of equity between the two networks. Let's see, let's repeat the usual numbers. The Administration dedicates each student of the public network to about 9,000 euros, and each student of the concerted network to about 5,000 euros. I mean, the 49% of education receives 36% of resources. That is, concerted education, in fact, is a chollo for the department because it can set the guidelines, it can impose the limits, it can inspect, I could do everything, and each student comes out by 40% less in the concerted than in the public. We will be inclined to vote on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, except on the first point. And why are we going to lean towards that amendment? Because she's the only one who talks about modules. Because here we are not talking – even if people think so – about the salaries of teachers. No, no, we are talking about full funding in all three modules: in the employee module for their position, in the general maintenance module and in the infrastructure module. That's what we're talking about. And the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party speaks of modules, with which we will support that. But what we cannot support is the first point, when they say – as the counselor says – that this is a matter of work. This is not a matter of work, because we are not talking about companies, we are talking about centres of social initiative. Concerted centers have no benefit, their balance is zero: admitted, spent, zero. And if there's anything left, go back to the apartment. So what's Work gonna do there? What are you going to do? Are you going to ask them to mortgage their homes so they can raise the salary to the officials? No, work can't do anything here. Because concerted education – I think I've said it many times – is a kind of collaboration agreement, a collaboration agreement that comes out phenomenal in the department, because it comes out much cheaper than if he had to assume all the concerted education. So, please, what you can't do is get into the Department of Labor. But it's just that that's so clear, that teachers' salaries are done for delegated payment. The teachers' salary is paid by the department. I mean, the department doesn't give the money to the schools so the schools can pay the teachers. No, no, the deputy payment assumes it's the department that pays the teachers. So, what's Work going for? If Work comes in, it'll be against the department, which pays teachers directly, I say. You will not be able to go against the centre, which for the payment delegated is not the one that pays the workers. This was, and it seems right to me, a way of controlling that these workers truly receive the salary. And then he says to the center, "No, no, no. You're gonna make me a deputy payment. You step aside and I pay the workers directly." Well, as soon as we get to the Department of Labor, we're going to have a mess, because the Department of Labor is going to have to go against the Department of Education, which is the one that pays. Let's see, this is already crazy, this is already crazy, especially because we are also talking, not about taking a leap forward in all kinds of spending, we are talking about recovering what was lost in the crisis, especially the modules that are not wages. So the one who tabled the amendment, Mrs Berriozabal, has given me permission to ask you, Madam President, that we vote for points. And just as we are voting in favour of the second and third points, we cannot vote in favour of the first point: the Department of Labour, as it does not want to bring to trial the Department of Education, which pays, has nothing to do here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u70	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Together, Poedemus. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u71	Good morning again. The new course has begun for students and teachers, and the new course has also begun for members of the legal class and even for the members of the government, and the Board of Education has left them out of work for the holidays, and has left them unfinished in summer, and has at this moment introduced more domestic tasks in his backpack with questions and slippers that are going on with the platform. This conflict has lasted a long time, but we have a public education agreement without signing it. It's the Board of Education that has the responsibility of this agreement, so we may say that it's not the best times for the Board of Education. History pixka bat egitea komeni da gai gehienetan age Honetan era bai. Hezkuntza Batzordean gaudenok badakigu memorializes, baths nik uste dut bestentzat komeni de la catazkaren nondik norakoak ezagutzea, eta, dakizuen bezala, hori bai, oso astunak garelako kontu honekin, gure hezkuntza-systemare the anomaly dago catazka honen atzean. European, bai, anomaly beats race bi sareetan bananduta digugulako gure ikasleak. Public and concerted, almost 50%. A system that generates many anomalies, among many others, these that we have to debate today. Some, known, such as the inequality in the assumption of diversity that we have in Basque society; others, perhaps less, but which in recent years are more in the foreground, such as the management of the closing of the classrooms that brings and can bring down the birth rate. On the other hand, we must remember that the workers of this sector have been 10 years old, with their workers no renewing their bond of work, two, three, four, five, ten years ago, and that in the course of the ten years they have gone off under their conditions of work. The principal announcements of unions are known, and it's the proclamations that all the unions in the sector agree. In this conflict all the unions have been given and although there are some differences now, we are talking about a union of 97%. I think it's enough to praise our society that in our country we have acquired such union in a long and complex struggle, on one hand, and keep it in time. And that means something about the patriotic attitude. The main claim. Far from this debate that has been focused by some players on the issue of wages, each and every one of the unions speaks of the fundamental problem of the relocation of staff by the foreseeable closing of classrooms, of all the collectives, not like that plan of the Government that rejected the unions because they left out different collectives. The salary, the capacity of bribery, is also to be recovered among the proclamations, but in the first class it is to maintain employment. Also claims about burden-sharing, which I will not detail because you know them. And also the improvement of the conditions of the members of the pre-operative and of the femininized community. Two concrete sectors are: Educational help specialists and the first education cycle in Child Education. I think that if you carefully read the words of the different unions, and at the same time the appeals of the patricians, there is will for the patrician and the government. In a sense: The quality of education and the worthy working conditions of the education system. There were many mutations and strikes in the course of the last course, but in advance, during years, they made different proposals for the patricians. Again, till the mobilizations and strikes had been made, the patronials had not been worried. Not even government. He began to worry about the patriarchals and mediatic noises after the Gregorseavage that had been completed last year. We are, yes, faced with a labor conflict, but a labor conflict that has educational conditions, that has conditions for thousands and thousands of workers, and also thousands of students, and even if the solution is clearly work between employers and trade unions – and I want to make this clear here – it needs a clear accompaniment, clear leadership from the Department of Education. Because we have an employer – like almost all, or in this case more, in such a long conflict – deaf, who has not been able in 10 years to sign the agreement with his staff, and – especially I am talking about Kristau Eskola – who does not want to negotiate and who has wanted to use the conflict to make politics and to talk about his negotiation, to increase more and more the financing of his network, also wanting to join all the demands to the rise of public funding. Where, then, is the freedom of collective bargaining with your employer? Where is it? We are also concerned that the Department of Education is not to assist as a passive spectator, but to assist as a party spectator, in the face of a conflict that affects thousands and thousands of workers, thousands and thousands of students, in a sector in which the Department of Education, who is the leader or should lead the education policy in our country, is responsible. He has sometimes been a passive educator, but also a partner of the employer, as at that time when he accused the unions, in an interview with EITB, of having other interests other than the workers in this conflict. A reflection similar to that of Kristau Eskola. I don't know if it's random, I don't usually believe much in those random things; we don't understand that this is a way to build trust between the parties, at least towards some – the usual ones, on the other hand – in order to manage this conflict. I don't know about you, but we don't think it's too polite for the carelessness of some patriots who care for a great part of the education of our society. We do not regard as educational values to show lack of will for negotiation, to manage differences, and to lack will. I said this in the committee: I would be very concerned about having a employer who does this kind of conflict and labour relations management. They do not seem to us to be very upbuilding values for education by the managers of Kristau Eskola and some other employer, the managers of our educational system, in short, of the subcontracting of education, which would have to be based on values that seem totally alien to that lack of responsibility for the negotiation shown by employers. They are values that are alien to an advanced society that is based or should be based on negotiation and agreement to move forward. And I would also say that they are values quite far from the values that Kristau Eskola supposedly defends in his educational projects. There each one with his conscience, that I am not the one who has to judge them. Steps have been taken, but the approved salary increase does not recover this purchasing power that is being demanded; the staff relocation plans leave out a lot of collectives – as the unions have already said, and the government, deaf ears – and that salary matching between first and second arrives nothing more and nothing less than 26 years later. For our part, I think we have said this many times in the committee, that if we have to help one another, that it is a net trade union negotiation, but we have each and every one of the unions, we have been with almost, I believe that with all together and with some separately, but, curiously, and after the location that I made Kristau Eskola in the committee because he had not wanted to receive us, or I do not know if it has been that they have been passed, at this time we have not been lucky enough to be able to contrast at a bilateral meeting the concerns that they have with those that we have. I do it again here, in the committee it did not work, I do it again here, that, if necessary, we are willing, knowing that our models are totally different, but that we have to lead this conflict. Therefore, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, who manage this Basque Government, if we are a country with two networks, an educational model of two educational networks, be able to manage it and that there are no labour conflicts in these sectors. We are not very hopeful seeing the state of negotiation at the public education table. The trade unions before summer were here, too, explaining their concerns, but I believe it is your responsibility primarily, both the Department of Labour, the Department of Education and the Government as a whole, to resolve this conflict as soon as possible, to help resolve this conflict as soon as possible, and also to resolve any potential conflicts that may exist and to end the negotiation of the public education agreement. So it's up to Lady Uriart to take the leadership and help you to solve this conflict. What this team and the unions require is to help the government in negotiation. So I think it's time for the unions and the real patriotic negotiations and also government. So we're gonna protect the show initiative, and we're saying it again, we're gonna take care of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u72	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, proposals are proposals, not ideas. That's the legal assumption that he wants to be a judge and a teacher. You said, "Well, it's time for us to go on another way." Well, then, come to the point in another way. And this isn't just aboric conflict. If it's not rotten already, then there's nothing left for it to be rotten. And the Board of Education has to put down the batteries and look for negotiation. It's his responsibility. Reset the ridiculousness Look, at the moment when the strike was on 17 days' strike, the Board of Education introduced a document. If I'm not mistaken, it was a document on the relocation that later threw it back. So he does it when he wants to. And he's got a grip on him. We have to postpone the pretexts here, and we have to start this negotiation. Who says funding? Who puts the legal frame on it? Who makes several calls? Please, there's plenty of excuses and hypocrisy here! And we want to remember to the Board of Education that the money used for funding is everybody's money, the money we all put on. And that, public money, the money we all put, can't be used any way. There must be guarantees there, there must be conditions, there must be a control. And even more when he goes to private hands. All of them, but also in private hands. These guarantees here are the workers' conditions and the basic rights of students to guarantee social education. That's why public money tends to ensure high-quality education. For this purpose some conditions must be fulfilled when it concerns the workers and the students. On the other hand, you have already increased financial funding by this public money. So forget another module update. It seems to me that there are enough means for us to direct this subject, but the will is needed, a superior is needed, and here it is a department of education and a part of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u75	Thank you, Chief. What are we here to talk about today, Mrs. Ubera? This is to try to confound matters which have nothing to do with capacity, because, when we think of conflicts with the compact, two groups speak to us of the representative system of the public network, of multiplicity, and equity. Light Destination: Trying to sell some fat headlines. Yes, by way of shadowing the subject of today. Who was talking about communicative policy at the front point, Mrs. Uberia? Of the Government which the stroke of effect seems to wish to produce? I think you know a good deal about it. What can I tell you? The mediator, judge, arbitrator, actually seems to me to be an idea, and I don't think it's such a painful word. It's an emergency. You know, at the moment when you propose, you know that the Justice Committee doesn't belong to the Board of Education, or to any other conflict in this matter than in any other sector. I mean, I find the proposal a little conspicuous. Then there's the ascent mentioned here. In the science of education, on account of the hasty budgets of 2019, he produced a law project, as has been said here, and brought it in by the Eucomunciation of the Eucous Party, in the full meeting on February 14th. In this project of law the economy module was allowed to increase to the expense of the college in the compact, almost 20,000 euros. I'm surprised at something you said. You said, "In the field, we accepted the law." I don't know whether your words or perhaps your party, which subconsciousness has chosen, were there at any moment a discussion of what was to be done in the presence of this bill of law, but you didn't participate in it at once. You weren't involved. So the rest of us "accepted" and the Jestric Party was in charge, not as "EH" gathered together. It's not the first time this happens. All the agencies which conflict with each other, the media, the unions, the families admit that we are face to conflict and that the legislative groups know that well enough. Is it not worth while to give an opportunity to a tool on the table, and to a still unused instrument? And besides, both sides have to make demands. It does not belong to another to demand. The government cannot begin this intermediary by trade; the parties must demand it. We have told them over and over again that this is, in our opinion, an opportunity, and that they ought to endeavour to do so. For the time being, at least, they have not been able to do that. Of course it's troubling. I have already told you from the very beginning that the "Eunual Party" is very concerned because the lack of conversation is obvious, because the lack of communication is obvious, and the failure of communication is complete. But as we are concerned, we believe that we must also make an example to the parties to make an attempt to find a solution, because that is our responsibility. And even the department has expressed its uneasiness, and has constantly and constantly received it with them. You ask, "Did it come with the unions?" Is he with his family? "I don't know. Well, of course, he's got together, and you know, you know, you know quite well, and besides, the unions themselves acknowledge that they have contact with fun, that they have a constant relationship. Then we talked about the demographic descent, and so we talked about it all the way down to the demographics, and the professor's planilla put a proposition on the table for Christmas. So, "The government is quiet, it doesn't... "Well, it's just that you don't like sitting on the table, and it's a different thing to stay still. Begira, guk behin eta berriro esan dougu adostasuna éta egonkortasuna behar duela sistemak eta adostasun horrek elkarrizketatik etorri behar duela. The education system needs stability in order to continue to advance along the path of quality, equity and inclusiveness that has always characterized it. Eta lehendakariak joan den ostiralean eabili zituen hitz batzuekin amaitu nahiko nuke: "We ask for realism and responsibility. We ask to preserve the central objective of continuity in education. It is not necessary to resort to strike when there are channels to resolve conflicts from dialogue and agreement." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u76	Thank you, Mrs. News. The representative of the American Basque Group must not speak a word. Martíne? Yes, the word is yours, Martínez Inezón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u77	Yes, thank you. Just one thing to say. The intermediary has been requested, a union has asked for its benefit from ; I suppose the Department of Job will know, and other unions have approved of it. I'd like to know, maybe this question is just to leave the table on the table, who doesn't approve, and why it doesn't start. With the relocation plan, you know perfectly well, and I'm not going to do it because it doesn't belong to me, I say – there is no right to reply, but for other moments – I'm not going to do it as a loudspeaker for the unions, but there are the communiqués and the proposals of the unions, they are left out to groups that are going to be the main ones damaged by the closing of classrooms, for example, that of 0-3, then also other collectives, such as vocational training and other baccalaureate collectives. They have the proposals of the unions to be able to do so. And at the beginning of the legislature the concept of the "principle of reality" became fashionable, what happens is that this reality is very polyhedral and has different visions, and that "principle of reality" of the Basque Nationalist Party contrasts with the "principle of reality" of the... LEHENDAKARIA
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u78	...workers and workers of concerted education, who, having an employer who is unable in 10 years to agree with the unions on decent working conditions, are forced... I don't know, I think some groups think that strike for thousands and thousands of workers is like, I don't know, as if it were something easy, that it doesn't involve any loss of purchasing power or any loss in their daily lives. They don't do it for free. So, those "principles of reality", the "principle of reality" that exists in the Basque Nationalist Party and the "principle of reality" that exists in Kristau Eskola, just as we must put them on the table with the "principle of reality" of the trade union party that is demanding the return of rights stolen for so many years without renewing the collective agreement. Nothing more and nothing less. These are two principles of reality that must be combined. And I would say at first, if Kristau Eskola is not able to do so, I find it very worrying that they are responsible for the education of thousands and thousands of boys and girls in this country, because I find very unediting values to teach boys and girls not to be able to negotiate and agree with the workers, with the teachers who are ultimately responsible for the education of our children. And I think it is a great failure for the Basque Government that this conflict has not been resolved in these 10 years either. And I remind you that you have already opened the doors to the conflict of public education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u79	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. End of discussion, we'll go to the vote. We'll vote for the original text of the EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u80	So it wasn't accepted Collect original EH group text. Next, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote the whole correction of the teams. As he has two points, we'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the east, 37; opponents 26; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u81	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u82	So the second point has also been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, concerning the crack between women and men in sport. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposer's turn... Were there more points? [[Berber]] I voted two points, but I have no more. Where's the third one? Edo nik gaizki begiratu dut edo... What's the matter? That I've been confused about the subject, the leaf! [[Berber]] Alde egin of the jendeak? Has anyone come out? I'm confused about the leaf! Mrs. De Bengochea, there were three points. After the first point and two points? Yes, vote, first point and then the other two, or all three separated?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u83	The other two together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u84	And you? You two different? No, I'm confused. [[Berber]] What I want to ask is if we vote one by one. Yeah? Do you, too? Okay. Now the third point. Are we all here? We'll vote for the third point because it's over, because I'm confused. The third point, right? You all understand? Point three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u85	So the third point has also been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list. Together, Mrs. Garcia, representing the Podemos team. It's your word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u86	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Women's access to and participation in sport in the Basque Country has been late and difficult, and even today their presence is less in all forms, both in terms of more recreational and competitive or professional practice, as well as in all the structures that make up the sports system. As has happened in other areas, women, also in sport, have had to overcome explicit and implicit barriers and preconceived ideas created by social and cultural stereotypes that have generated inequality. In fact, inequality in sport begins with its own gestation, which was conceived by and for men, as a means of transmitting certain values and for the development of their physical capacities. Some of these values, such as competition, physical strength or capabilities based on force or driving capabilities, power or resistance. However, sport is also a transmitter of values such as cooperation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u87	Quiet, please. Keep it down, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u88	Thank you, ma'am. However, sport is also a transmitter of values, such as cooperation and teamwork, and it helps to strengthen self-esteem and self-supervision, so, together with the physical and psychological well-being it provides, it is positive that more and more women practice sport. However, this growing increase in women's sports practice does not mean that their conditions of access, their motivation for practice and their permanence, the satisfaction obtained, the incentives received and the obstacles encountered, as well as their participation in decision-making, are similar to those of men. In order to overcome all these inequalities, it is essential that, from the institutions, we address, among other issues, the empowerment of women, the change of values, the promotion and recognition of women's sport, the overcoming of obstacles to women's and men's access to certain sports activities, the increase in the presence of women in decision-making areas, the incorporation of a gender perspective in all public programmes for the development of sport, the prohibition of sports activities that discriminate on the basis of sex and, in general, the elimination of obstacles that prevent real and effective equality between men and women in the sports sector in the Basque Country from being the product of real and effective equality. In addition, one of the issues that is also important is the lack of construction of women's references at the sporting level. From Elkarrekin We recognize that in recent years efforts have been made to promote and promote women's access to and participation in sport, and that progress has been made towards this incorporation. In this very Parliament, for example, and with the help of my colleague Eukene, we have reached an agreement on sporting events free of symbolic violence against women. Despite these advances and agreements, the overall presence of women is even lower, especially in federal and professional practice. Thus, and despite the increase in women in federal sport in Euskadi in recent years, the number of men's sports licenses is higher in 44 of the 48 sports federations. All this shows that in federated sport the presence of women is certainly still a minority and that there is also a clear horizontal segregation according to whether they are practices with greater male or female tradition. In the current situation, for our parliamentary group today, as well as supporting studies and analyses of different experts in this field in relation to the gap between women and men in sport in the Basque Country, and admitting, as we have already made progress, progress and improvements in certain areas in order to eradicate discrimination against women and encourage their participation in sport, it must be recognized that they occur in a discontinuous, uncoordinated way and without the support of a specific line of work developed by the institutions. This is the main conclusion we can come to if we see the evolution of the measures implemented to improve the situation of Basque women in sport. Therefore, from Elkarrekin We have presented this initiative, because we want to strengthen policies to contribute to the elimination of the sport gap and to achieve greater equality between women and men. When we took the initiative, we started from Law 4/2005 of 18 February for the Equality of Women and Men, where, in article 20, the duty of Basque public administrations to include equality criteria in their contracts and subsidies is explicitly stated. In the same vein, the VII Equality Plan for Women and Men of the Basque Autonomous Community sets out, among its objectives, the increase in the number of public institutions that include clauses for equality in their contractual and/or grant activity and that monitor their compliance, the increase in the percentage of contracts that include clauses for equality and the increase in the percentage of grants, agreements and scholarships that include clauses for equality. We have been able to see that there is still a long way to go to ensure that this indicator has a minimal presence in the sports clubs receiving grants and that in their actions they encourage the wage gap and the gap in the redistribution of time between facilities, favouring an unequal sport practice between girls and boys, i.e. between women and men. That is why we are presenting this initiative and we have agreed on a compromise amendment that we have signed with the parties supporting the Government and the People's Group. To begin with, it is necessary and priority for us to carry out an in-depth analysis of the current situation, a picture of the circumstances in which we now find ourselves with regard to the inequalities between men and women in sport, in order to address in a specific way the access and participation of women at all levels and at all stages of sport. A detailed study, which also addresses the salaries of female trainers by sex, as well as the use of facilities by sex in all sports areas, including clubs receiving some kind of subsidy from a public institution. The aim of our initiative is nothing other than to encourage, promote and provide resources for the elimination of the wage gap and the visibility and promotion of women's sport, because women's sport does not need one-day events or actions that remain in oblivion. While they are important, what is really needed is a constant and structural change, where women are counted on the executives of power bodies related to sport. If we want equality, we need to have more presence, to make a change that promotes the implementation of equality strategies in the Basque federations, through training and awareness-raising campaigns that are carried out in collaboration with the different federations or with the Union of Sports Federations of Euskadi. We also need to develop guides that will contribute to the full integration of women, not only in the field of sport, but also in the areas of leadership in the sector. It was important for women to reach those levels in order to be able to have effective and real equality. In addition, in our amendment we also propose to ensure that clauses and criteria to encourage women's participation in federal sport are incorporated into the aid granted to the Basque sports federations. Finally, the last step of the initiative we are presenting today, which we believe is essential, is that of the media. Today, as we all know, it is men's sport, and more specifically football, which most of the media's sports programming is covered. In the media, we have to talk about women's sport. Differences in social recognition of women's sporting achievements must be eliminated. We need, as I said before, to build references. Women do not have reference models of women sportsmen flooding all the media, as it does with men. Women athletes should go through classes in schools to explain their sports practice and always serve as a reference figure. In addition, there is a tendency to explain women's abandonment of sports as a natural phenomenon that takes place because of other priorities that women set in their lives. However, the lower quality of women's sports offer and the unequal distribution of economic, human and material resources are factors that influence the lack of motivation for the continuity of women's sports practice. In short, there is a need to narrow the communicative gender gap in public and private sports centres that obviously receive some form of public subsidy. Act 4/2005 of 18 February 2005 on Equality of Women and Men prohibits the granting of subsidies to sports entities that discriminate against women. At the same time, the legislation developed under the above-mentioned Act requires sports federations to develop equality plans in their structures and to carry out actions aimed at encouraging women's participation in sport. We are not asking for anything that is not within the plans to promote sport and within the framework of equality rules in the Basque Country. The problem, however, is the application of these regulations, which remains in the hands of the social partners involved. The main current problem, for Elkarrekin Podemos, is the lack of commitment and awareness to implement existing legislation and ensure its compliance. There is a lack of comprehensive planning, with a timetable indicating what we are doing, where we are going and time frames to make progress in law enforcement. That is why we have presented this initiative, because we believe, from Elkarrekin Podemos, that it is a good first step towards moving forward in the elimination of the sport gap in the Basque Country and achieving real equality, beyond plans and indicators. We must continue to work to transfer the roles and address reality and transform it. That is why we believe that this initiative is so necessary for women to have equal access to and participation in all areas of physical activity and sport in the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing Euskal Popula Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be short. On the one hand, I think there is a great deal of agreement, and on the other hand, what time it is, I think it would be convenient to have it short. But it is plain that the subject is broad, the subject is profound, and it would be well to speak more calmly in another respect about this interesting and important subject. It's obvious 20th. and the field of sport is not an exception, but that there have been progress in the field of sport. But we may say that these improvements are not sufficient, and that it is still necessary to make a course, to find the agreement, and to make the proper diagnosis, and to take the measures proper. It is true that the evolution achieved and the presence of women in all spheres throughout the twentieth century, especially, has been a conquest, a social conquest, a collective conquest, in which, without a doubt, the role of women has had much to do with it. These advances have also been made in the field of sport, but it is true that, because of the special characteristics of sport, a sector, since, until recently, with a very important male presence, therefore, to make a gap in the field of sport, and especially at the professional level, for women, it is not easy, is it not? In that sense, well, we applaud the initiative. It is obviously a very broad issue, which would also require a very thorough analysis of it and, well, in that sense, as I said, we applaud the initiative, which has been brought into this parliamentary debate. We, this group, when it had occasion to analyze the initiative, what we consider appropriate is to have the X-ray of the situation in Euskadi. And, above all, bearing in mind, also, that we have Emakunde, as the Institute of Women, and who better, to tell us what is the situation of women in relation to sport than Emakunde, we consider it appropriate to put forward an amendment urging Emakunde to carry out an analysis of the situation and to carry out, accordingly, the relevant recommendations or measures in collaboration with the clubs, with the federations, well, with all the institutions working in the field of sport. I also believe that the groups in the agreed compromise also considered this to be an important point and that this has been taken up, and points have also been taken up from other groups. In short, I believe that the initiative remains quite complete. Alde battik, aipatu dudan bezala, Alderdi Popularrak gure zuzenketan jasotzen genuine aipatzen da: alde-battik, diagnostiko bat Egypt age Emakundek diagnostiko hori egin dezala, age, bestalde, dagozkion neuroriak hartu behar direla diagnostiko hori egin ondoren. On the other hand, there is also talk of promoting strategies for equality in federations through promotion and awareness-raising campaigns at the hands of sports federations. A reference is also made to the scope of the aid. We believe that it is also a very important area, the aid that the federations get, so that criteria can also be incorporated to encourage the incorporation of women. Another aspect that has also been introduced and which we consider important is work in the field of communication, in the field of the media. We are also trying to move towards equality in the leadership areas, which, as we see, is an outstanding issue, but not only in the sports area but in many areas. When we go up steps in any area and, above all, we are going to see the leadership positions, mostly they are occupied by men, and that, obviously, has to do with the fact that in the end we women do not get to certain positions. Obstacles must be removed, and I think that paragraph is absolutely relevant. So, you're happy. I'm grateful for the transaction, the agreement, the parties we've signed, and we hope that we'll have that exam as soon as possible, and that Eukko's going to run the measures as soon as possible, and that the differences in the corresponding terms may become less and less in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u91	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u92	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. I wanted to ask you a question that was once thrown on an advertisement. They asked the people who were present what they understood when they say that you run like a woman. And the people who appeared there made insulting gestures, making gestures that didn't know how to run... And when they asked the little girls, they tried to run as fast as they could. It is clear, therefore, that at the present day Podemos has brought in a theme of stereotyped stereotypes, which is important, and which shows that we are going to play this sport, which is still so important in small cases as in the year of stereotypes and lack of refrificants. If they asked us to run like a woman, I'd like to run the Forest like the Correz, that's all we have. Or to act like Caster Sonny. Well, how a woman who knows how to make a great deal of it hesitates, and how she managed to reach her things and hormones because she doesn't run like a woman, or because she doesn't understand it. Or Lilatonal. Or a woman's Bir. This allusion we saw at first as important has fallen from us. Where's the woman's tour in this proposal? Cycling, woman-class cycling, an amateur and a terrible job in the Basque Country where is this community that has worked so hard for 30 years? I don't know if it's a proposition we want to let him die. You talk little about money, too. As for us, for instance, when we developed this kind of project economically in our corrections, Mrs. García has also explained the difference in their initial proposal. I'd like to bring some questions from Mrs. Ubera, my associate, about the woman's Bir. In 2017, he asked me to help you organize the man's Basque Country tour. It's 220,000 euros. In 2017, to help organize women's tour was 9.225.17 euros. In 2018, 2200,000 euros were given to the men's Regaurs in the Basque Country. There was a climb here for the ladies' Revinators: 2,000 euros, 11456,23 euros. Shameful. We still don't have 2019. 2200,000 euros are available for men's tours, and women's sub-temment was still on the line. I'm excited to know if this year's rise will reach a few. It is because we have neglected so many accounts which do not appear in this agreement that we have decided not to mention a society which has greatly impelled women's sport in the Basque Country, and we have decided not to sign it, and I will further explain why we shall be in this middle-class correction. We think that what we brought here today is a very important subject, and I don't care whether it's at two o'clock in the afternoon or at 5 p.m. We're grateful that Mrs. García and together Podemos brought this proposal here. And we were also grateful that we had a proposal in 2017, because if we compared the agreement we made today with the 2017 proposition, and the agreement we made in the middle of it, we find very little news. But, well, I'll try to point it out. At the first point, an analysis is requested. Lady Garrido explained that to make a diagnosis which was demanded of the Angel. Surprise: An EAE-level sports status analysis from a class's point of view I made a quick search on the phone. The operation of the influence on the genus of 2012 also becomes an evaluation. He makes a diagnosis there, and also a few proposals. A guide to prevent female sexual harassment and abuse in sports. Protocol To-do Guides And yes, we can ask for more diagnosis. We are not going to oppose it, but there are already investigations, there are proposals already, and they are not developing them. There, in our opinion, we put in value three proposals drawn from the government. It's not what EH Collect brought here, it's three tests or protocols or tests brought by the EH, the EH and the Cultural Department. Then we talk gids. I've mentioned the protocol. Even the gift has another guide in sport to encourage a peerly language. There are others too. We need more guides? Go ahead, really, we won't say anything against it. At the third point, it is required that it be confirmed, that in the purses given to eucalyptic sports ornaments, clauses and reachables are introduced. 7. The plan already gets that. Besides, there are, I mean, VII. Even if there were three points in the plan which had been well brought together, even if they had been made in the original proposition, then nothing new. We were asking for details there. When we go to the details, we can find what happens with the woman's Bir. So we don't want to find solutions to what we can solve, and we'll continue asking for "let's live," and we'll continue proposing guides... If we don't do what we can in the meantime? Point four. Formations and campaigns were demanded. Here, in 2017, I mean to remind myself of the agreement that we obtained, because in it, I also say, we're rubistic and study a thousand times over, so that we don't stand against it, but there's something more precise than was required in it. in four months' time, to create a crew for a test of sports and operation, to take measures, and in eight months demanded a court code. In fact, the law of 4/2005 was demanded to consider what was planned in it, and to fulfil it entirely. The article 25.2 was demanded, by which it is forbidden to give neither public support nor protection for the Eukadin sports performance, if it is for women to run away. And at the fourth point, the sensibilization campaigns. May 18, 2017. It's been two years. We could have come to this, and you brought us a new proposal here, a half-way proposal. I repeat: I will not oppose it, because we made an agreement in his time. I won't argue with you because we protected all these reports. But we were asking for details, that's what we tried to do in our full correction: We talked about money, we talked about the conditions of entering official sports contests, we talked about women's Birds... We don't want women's tour, we don't want women's sport to fall from this proposal. And, alas, since we have this sensation, or find nothing new, we shall tend to abstain from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u94	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. The initiative that Elkarrekin brings us today We can, I understand that in substance and in philosophy we all agree, including Mrs Etxebarrieta, because, of course, in a very broad part of her intervention I absolutely agree. I think that we could say, without wishing to offend anyone, that the world of sport is a macho world in which we still have a very long career to carry out because it is true that every time women's sport has a greater presence, also a media presence, a greater role in those media to which we would also have to demand that, in fact, it broadcast much more than what is done, and a greater recognition to sportswomen in each of the disciplines they carry out. But, still, it is fair to acknowledge that much remains to be done and that we are far from having an equal vision in sport. It is true what Mrs Etxebarrieta said about each of the guides, reports and documents that Emakunde has been making over, above all, the last few years, but it is also true that every day we cannot invent documents or invent new ones because reality does not change at the pace we all wanted. There would be a need for a revolution, also feminist, in the world of sport, which I believe is being made, but that revolution cannot be made from 2015 or almost 2020. Therefore, when certain things are mentioned in some of the compromise amendments, it is only a matter of recognizing what has been done because it was understood at a certain point that we should do so, but we will not continue to invent documents when some of them are still in the process of development and are still required to comply with it. As far as the Emakumeen Bira is concerned, I'm not going into a confrontation because it's real. Indeed, there has been a 95 per cent drop in the subsidy received, although it appears that the Government was proposing an alternative to that career and was thinking that another one would be made, but, indeed, a career that was traditional, one of the oldest and which, in fact, does not seem to be going to be made. The differences remain palpable and today the need to continue working for real equality is undeniable, and that is what I believe we must all commit ourselves to. One of the demands made is the end of the wage gap, which is what Mrs García proposed, between men and women as a claim that more and more athletes are taking on, tired of resigning to collect less than their colleagues for the same thing in prizes and sponsorships that, as we all know, receive a tiny part of that which their colleagues receive. It is also important to facilitate spaces in the public media and it is difficult to close a percentage of how much more has to be raised, in this case Basque television, in what it does now with what we hope to end, well, coming to see in our media, to which the public have a greater responsibility and a right to demand. The role of the Administration is important. I believe that the role of federations, the role of the media, is fundamental. I think they have a much greater importance and power than we sometimes have in the political chambers. And, indeed, I think we are far from that real equality. In this plenary, the last parliamentary term is when more has been debated on equality issues, when society has probably pushed policy to continue discussing these issues, but to be able to agree on concrete actions, and, as far as sport is concerned, I think we are still far from being able to talk about equality. The other day I was in the presentation of a women's basketball team, the Araski, and I think that whoever was able to go there could see the difference when a women's team is presented and when a men's team is presented in the same city – neither for nor against either of them, I mean, they seem to me to be the two important ones; moreover, it is a team that is praised in a province where basketball has always had a hobby probably greater than football – but even in the political parties and in the political representation that there was, I think we should all make a self-critic of what was there, because in the end we are looking for references – we were talking about Mrs. García, who sometimes seems to be still missing references – and I believe that the quarries have clear references and I believe that, for example, that club has become a reference to feminism in Basque, and there are many girls who want to be part of that because they come beyond a group, in this case of a basketball club, well so to achieve something else. It is therefore true that we can do many things and I believe that much remains to be done from policy. The gap that exists in the issue of sport, sometimes we talk about the issue of wages, sometimes we talk about what happens in politics... I finish as I have started: sport, I think it is a very macho area in which much remains to be done, but I think we should also take up our efforts in trying to develop all those tools that we have been giving ourselves, all those guides, those documents, those commitments that we are sometimes able to create ourselves and those that we are able to throw them on the edge when there has not even been enough time for the development of them. Therefore, I believe that we all have many duties in all this, and that women's sport has a greater role, I think it is not only on Basque public television – which yes – in sports federations – which yes – in budgets, in everything that remains to be done, but I believe that everyone, from a much smaller area, which is staff, each, in political parties, with the facts, can also continue to make progress in all this and be able to demonstrate to society the commitment we have every day. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u95	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician. Good noon, everyone. When we talk about sport, we may say that it is a more increased gap between men and women. Because sports has been a region that has been masculinized on a non-professional level. That's what I think it's all about. We might even say that the sport is the most dissecting circle of women, and yet it is still, but we must also say that we are on the way to make prominent steps. The boys don't do sports in the same way or the same way: These differences are remarkable in the several States of Europe and Eukadin. But why do girls nowadays play less sports than boys? Why do girls let themselves be sported before the boys? This is not an accident, and so many observations have given us nearly the same consequences. In modern Western societies sports are founded on traditional organizations, man-based structures. Sports has also created its powerful sphere in modern societies, because there is also business besides health. In sport, collective unions are united, identity helps us to strengthen them; sport helps us to keep them young and beautiful; we also seek emotion and enjoyment in sport; sports is a way of getting into society, a way to learn how to live together; others can be sporting, or some know only high sports. There's a lot of weight in our society. And we have to place the relationship between young girls and sports in this situation. Girls play sports until they're around 14 years old. But at that age they sense a great change. When they go up to the cadet level, the school structures are not yet fully prepared for kids to play sports, so if they want to continue in sport, they're the only way they're supposed to be in the feduated club. A lot of clubs all of them, but many of them don't have enough economic resources and don't have any mentalities to get all the boys. So they take the best skills and guide performances to sports. If they have but few resources, they get boys' teams first and, if possible, the girls. The social and cultural conditions which circumscribe the young girls in the field of sport and their freedom to choose and determine are apparent and they are very rooted in our society. It's not easy to get the equality between a sportsboy and a sportsman. Many customs, which we have considered as natural, ought to be changed, and that requires time, as well as not. And what happens later, with the women we're going back to 40? A lot of women decide to have children, and when they grow up, they start playing sports again. The children take their time for their leisure, and the work is the same with them. When the work and the children are together, it is very difficult for a woman to enjoy leisure for some years, and therefore also for sport. Yes, it seems like a lot of men don't happen like that. I've questioned some of the boys in my group who have children and work hard, but they always find room for sport. The discriminatory treatment historically given in the field of sports to trainers, referees, technicians, doctors, directives and, above all, to sportswomen is an unthinkable reality today in other areas, and ranges from girls in school-age sports to elite sportswomen. Many federations and clubs diminish the importance of equality laws and, regrettably, in the most extreme cases they attack their physical and psychological integrity through harassment and sexual abuse, or lesbianism, or the use of their bodies as a sexual claim. This last aspect is a clear indicator of the regression in equality, where it highlights the gravity of the imposition by the federations of a dress of competition that devalues them as sportsmen and women. However, this state is changing under the influence of works done during the past few years, and we must continue to do so: the girls must be motivated and helped change their attitudes. And yet we have great female sportsmen, precursors and refreciatives, who have said that the representatives of the groups that have spoken before could not be refregated, but I believe that we have, as I believe, the important Eukadinous Eukadinos, and that the most important Euskalinos, which is: Joane Somarrib, Edurne Paban, Maial's Chourut, Maider Unda, Eunate Aguire, Leticia Canales, the Lady of the World's football players have won the Queen's Cup recently, the rower women, the basketball players, and so on we have a long time. And here in Euscadin, which has been so rooted, and almost entirely the world of men, by the presence of women in the last few years, chiefly by the formation of the tugs of the women, they have triumphed in the last few years. For example, the Youngdi tug of war team near my village. And in the last few years, the chimpanzees are the sporting women who sit on the throne, on the scrutin, on the edge of the rock, or on the ball. So we have refrections. But when we talk about the theme, really, about the blouse or the crack, it's very wide. So today we've tried to unite a perspective. And with this, our daughter, our nephew, our cousin, sister, friend, or young girl in the neighbourhood, or not so young as to be seen in sport, and have an example to which we must act. And what is our duty in all this, what is the duty of the institutions? Our responsibility, up to a higher level than the lower level, including sports camps and sector management areas, is to encourage and encourage the means of aiding women's complete inclosure, to promote the formation and sensibilization campaigns, this was accepted, but in 2019 it is still necessary to invade it, by setting inductive strategys of equality, to force women into the federative sport, to force them into the case of sports. - setting criteria by providing scholarships... And we must always make this journey with the commitment to all societies. That I always say: it is necessary that all should be supported and encouraged. It's about to insert the Genero View to 2017-2020, after the Euskic Activity and Sports Management, and the union of Batque Team Team Fundature. We need to continue to drive services like we're on your team. We have also seen, in this case, that it was necessary to carry out a new analysis, an update of that analysis. Because, while it is true, as Mrs Red said, there has been no revolution in 2015 here, there have been many changes, especially in basic sport, as far as our girls and our young people are concerned. We therefore understood that such an analysis was necessary, that it would gather recommendations that were considered appropriate, in an integral way to promote women's sport, and that it would address – as I said in Basque – not only the access and participation of women in the practice of sport, but also in the areas of leadership or staffing. Indeed, we cannot forget the importance of the media in contributing to the visibility and enhancement of women's sport. That is why it was necessary to continue to work on reducing the communicative gender gap in the issue of sports information in EITB, although it is true that the evolution of EITB in recent years has been remarkable, increasing emissions in recent years – I believe that we have to put it into value. In the last two years, news of women's sport has increased considerably, in addition. All information issued in Gaur Egun Teleberri Oreka Helmuga The subject, therefore, is broad, and the other proposition, by the law, gave us a chance to lose our perspective from the start, but we are willing to keep the whole of what has been said today, and I think it is the reflection of the arrangement today. I'd like to say a few things to Mrs. Because of the woman's tour, you asked about 2019 scholarships. It's a 2019 scholarship that either you or the people who were present at the Sports Board voted...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u97	Go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u98	The foundation was established there. Besides, it's not about the woman's tour, as you know, because they've answered you in writing, but it's not about the will. I've been working since 2018 to get a switch on the race schedule, but it's not up to him. And that's what you have to say. In the future it is like an alternative to a new race, but as it is a new race, so far as it is always a new race, including the procedure established by the UCI. So it's legal to explain how things are. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u100	Can you hear me? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I've heard too much. Leave Eskerrik asko. Seeing a little... Just as well, isn't it? Seeing the interventions of the rest of the speakers from other groups, it is clear that we do maintain the same philosophy and spirit as regards... [[Problems with a microphone]] Now? I thought I was censored. Now. Well, first I have to thank the representatives – Mrs Arrizabalaga, Mrs Rojo and Mrs Garrido – because we do think that the agreement we have reached is an important step, and that on a question like this, where we all understand that there is a similar diagnosis (there is inequality and it is also greater than in other areas, than in other aspects of society), we have to work and we have to take action and we have to reach agreements, and that is what we understand. Clearly, much work remains to be done. There is obviously a lot of work left in the media too, which you were quoting now, Mrs Arrizabalaga, but there is a lot of work left, and there is a lot more to be done to spread women's sport in many areas. We, Mrs Etxebarrieta, do indeed understand that diagnosis and analysis are important, and when we put it at the first point, we were talking about something detailed that also talked about gender differences in the facilities, in the people they trained. I mean, we went a little further and that's why we understood the need, although we understand that you don't share it. With regard to the Emakumeen Bira, I share what you have said. It is an absolute discrimination, it is a shame that a proof, after 32 editions, the same or similar proof at the male level has almost 180,000 euros of investment, and 8,000, the same proof but of women. That's a shame, that's a discrimination. We have asked a question, we have not let go of the Emakumeen Bira. I understand and share your concern, but under no circumstances, at least for our parliamentary group... We will continue to ask the Government to take steps to ensure that specific situations like these do not occur. To finish, well, if you want to be Oihana Kortazar, I want to be Madelén Urieta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lady Garrido, do you have a word to say? No. Mrs. Houseboy. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u102	Okay. If the phone that wants to hubot him let us do it, I'll have to train a lot to get the jungle to the level of the choir, but at least we'll try to... Mrs. Arri generousga said, and I think you have brought some very interesting reflections here, how much time we also offer ourselves to sports, how much time this work leaves us for it, and, well, if nothing is done, it's always good. I think it is, and if it is so understood, I do not think it has any set of them proposed it, without any reference to us. I agree with what you say, I think there are several women who show an enormous degree in Euskal Country and the Euskals. The problem is, we don't refer to them, because I started with a question, and I'd have another question: How many men the sportsman's names, 10 names, would have been able to tell us the names of every one here and of ten women's sportsmen. I think we could have cost you a lot more. So that's where it's in the bisilization, and government, the institutions, have a big responsibility. You were talking about EIB, and we appreciate the work we're doing there, and we're asking you to follow the steps in that sense. Besides, to put all these references in value, because one is one thing that we can be talking about them, but on what conditions they perform the training, the conditions under which the contests are made, the conditions under which they are rewarded... We still have a lot to do. They're taking steps, but there's still a lot to do, and there's nothing more to ask the sportsmen themselves. We used to say with the Diagnostics, and, as I said, we should never be opposed to it, but we believe that we have already got a number of facts on the table which we are able to give us; and therefore, in this sense, there was already an agreement in its time, and as it was in that sense, we demanded exact steps. Well, we'll stay there and we know that you'll be traveling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u104	Yes, thank you, Chief. I'll be brief too, but it's just that somebody doesn't want me to speak, but I'll say very briefly, and I don't have the time, and I'm sure there's much to do, but in the sport the subject was so wide that we wanted to leave it outside because it's different. And in this way I was grateful to the party, and also to other groups, as well as to the EH Collector's Abstence, which is a great part of it, and that is all I wanted to say. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Populars, Eukal Socialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 56; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-26.u106	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and forty o'clock in the afternoon.
