ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Esculature, Euscara, and the Companion of the Sports Committee, made on the bill of law of the Basque Province. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Zupiria, ma'am, has the word to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u1	Congressmen, members of the legislature, presidents, and fellow officers, all good days. Today it'll be over since the New Year's July of 2017... the Euskal Cultura Ondare's Law made its way into the law. Almost two years ago, this long journey has given us a chance to exchange opinions between the members of the legislature and to get a broad and basic arrangement around this new law. I'd like to speak and thank you for the good behaviour of all the teams before anything else, and especially, the EAJ-PNV, PSE, EHG, and Together of the Podemos. The project which you will make to-day a law will rise with great protection, which will give it a firm basis, and in the next few years it will be indispensable to the care of the Basque Province. The law of strength was accepted in 1990 by the Basque parliament. In his time he was a pioneer, because he had connected his estate with his culture, as a precedent of other fools, who were later admitted in other places. But every time you do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you The changes which have occurred during these decades may be given, as an example, the relations of the immagine estates, which relate to the manufactures, and which have been derived from their actions as the result of the digital world, or from their actions relating to the inheritance by leisure and tourism, and to similar occupations. It contains, therefore, many new changes and concepts which have been here since 1990, and the laws which you will now accept, and we would like to have this new text as a pioneer. It is remarkable in innovations, that amongst persons who have a disaffection from a social point of view, the commitment was taken to promote the reach of the cultural community; by having this law, it is but an instance of the open and positive position which has been amongst the parties to enrich. The law regulates the three strategic areas of the region of the region of culture; Real estate, hereditary estate, and imperturbable estate. The treatment of the hygiene must be understood with that which has been regulated by other specific laws, such as the laws of the Museum of Euscamy in 2006, together with the law of the Basque Library in 2007 and the instruction of the archives and the rules of the archives. The management of the previous law has shown us that the reality of our organizational system was to be regarded as a starting-point for the explanation and determination of the nature of each organization. In the same way, it was necessary that the municipal laws of 2016 should be admitted to an account of patrimonies, where the texts of the authority of witnesses are approved. Therefore, the law which you will grant today makes an effort to explain in the text how it will divide itself between the three stages of our organization, in a reasonable and balanced manner, to which it may belong. In this case, too, the degree of agreement obtained between the institutions is remarkable. The law will produce two organs in order to ensure the co-ordination of professionals, institutions, and all kinds of people: the EAE council of the Basque Province, and the organ between the Institutions of the EAE of EAEscal. The law of the Cultural Sea fixes three degrees of protection: the culture goods with special protection, medium protection, and fundamental support. As far as they're concerned, they'll still have some basic support, even if they're municipal, they'll be wrapped up in a Basque record. The new law of classing the region of culture establishes 19 categories instead of three that were last time. Six categories belong to immovable estates, and are as follows: a monument, a set of monuments, an arcological or a palaeontological field, a historic garden, a culture career, a landscape, a culture landscape. The other two categories belong to the movable domain, and this category fixes two sections: particular movable goods and a set of movable goods. In fine, we have 11 categories of imperial estates. And this is probably one of the reformers' parts of the law. In this set of imaginary habits, poetry, music, dance, traditional performances, social habits, gastronomy, sports, festivals, knowledge connected with nature, and industry. All these categories of culture indicate: that the eyes of the regional community have been democratized, and that at the present day they value the materials and imperturbable goods which give significance to the development of a society...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u3	Not just monumental characters. In this new legislation, the immaterial and industrial provinces deserve a special reference. The first, imperturbable, is received for the first time in the Euscal law. The printer talks to us about the traditional inheritances which have been inherited for generations. He needs life and life, and, in his transmission and care, we need human communities as companions and companions. He offers us, no doubt, a new method of managing the inheritance, and offers an interesting challenge to the popular and popular authorities, as well as to the groups and associations of the culture. The management of the printer's immune will, on the one hand, require an important study and cataloging work. On the other hand, we must have relations with the agents and associations which preserve this imaginary legacy. That's what we're asking us to encourage our co-worker to keep that tradition alive and to secure its transmission from now on. Our department is working on that area. We've done our exams on the carnivals and the pilots, we've fixed our co-workers with Etniker and Labari, and we've helped the Voice. We'll take the next few steps to the dance area. All this will be performed together with the communities which give life to the Impressory patrimony of Esssal, following the counsel of the Time. Second innovation is about the legacy of industry. The law mentions them too much. The Industries of the Industries speak to us of the importance of this activity among us, and of the culture of industry which has arisen around it. There, in several ages, they take notice of the movable and impervious work of manufactures which have been in our own. In this area, the first job will be the catalogization of these goods. But, on the other hand, it's a good opportunity for you to hear from you that Euskion has asked Barakaldo City to give us a leave of the Orcona pavilions for Orcona. We'll place in it the collection of euscal industry, which has been needed from the '80s to establish and to form a design of definitions. It is impossible to establish a limit to the protection and care of Otho and culture; less, by digitalization, and by consequence, during this time when all physical limits have disappeared. We have not only a great part of our inheritance, which the Roman Autonomy of Rome keeps alive. As for the language of Euskal, and the culture created by Euscatia, we possess the same good as the peoples and peoples who live in the use of the eucalyptus and human communities. The text which you will accept today becomes legal in the custody of the region of culture an association between the institutions of the Basque lands. The same may be said of the countries and communities which divide other estates and goods beyond the language. Lastly, the law gives light to the care of the region of culture, in security, and in management, beyond the institutions of the people, in order that society itself, by individuals and associations, may have the projection of the community, and its contribution. Thank you all for your protection and your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? No. So, we're going to the team shift. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u5	Good morning, president, lehendakari, councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, my group has also worked constructively in the process of this law; that, Mr. Counsellor, although you have not mentioned us, but have thanked only your partners, in this case – in the process of this law – Podemos and Bildu. Well, we have also worked constructively on this law. And I also have to say that we are in the final phase of the adoption of the Basque Cultural Heritage Bill. There was a need to update the management of assets. There were many problems – that was clear – we all talked about it. My group – as we have already stated in the recent Committee on Culture – has not tabled an amendment in its entirety. I think that is a relevant fact in relation to what we wanted from this bill, with which we wanted to talk, with which we wanted to study, analyse, contribute. We understood that steps could be taken to pass the law, and we saw that there was much room for improvement, a substantial improvement in what was regulated in this draft, both by the experts who appeared or by those contributions that sent us as well as by what we were able to study to fix a better text, a better connected text, from our point of view. And that has been the quality of our amendments with the reality of the cultural heritage that surrounds us, which is a lot and which, of course, must be managed. And we have made amendments to improve issues as important as accessibility in the bill. There's been an agreement. There, of course, progress has been made in what is the draft law, in order to identify outstanding issues as industrial heritage, to refer to issues that did not come, even if they have to be mentioned by a special law, such as bibliographic documentary heritage; to improve issues that have to do with the relationship, and that has been very important too, and we have made a contribution that has been assumed: the relationship that must exist between the administrations and those concerned or those affected, in relation to the management of the cultural heritage, the guarantees of the administered before the administration in the management of cultural heritage... We have also, of course, contributed to our amendments issues relating to the legislative technique. We have worked constructively on this bill. But, of course, from our point of view, the amendments, the management of the amendments, the handling of the amendments... and the negotiation in the presentation of the bill, from our point of view, still lacks issues to be developed. Issues that we have raised, which have not been taken on board, which have not been taken into account, but we believe that the groups have not made a complete effort to support the Government, in principle, by making a complete effort for the agreement, but have not made a complete effort for the agreement. And we have, of course, been in in any case and at any point – and the spokespersons who have taken this issue know it – we have been prepared at all times, and I say again, in that constructive spirit, but I believe that it is They have disregarded much of our amendments, which are the ones that we maintain for this plenary today. A consensus law was wanted, but not everything has been done, not everything has been done. Some details and some issues have been lacking, and of course you, the groups that support the Government, and the Government, have achieved a complete agreement with EH Bildu, complete. A complete agreement with EH Bildu and Podemos. I'm not gonna talk about a tweezer. But the groups that support the government have made an agreement, now that we usually talk about those things that... Well, they've made a deal. But, of course, it has lacked sensitivity and will with our contributions, I understand, with some of them. I have to make this clear because it is time, the final process of a bill, and where these things have to be said. Of course, what we do not share is the final reference that this law makes to the regulatory regulation of an organ as important as the Basque Cultural Heritage Council. We don't like it. That is, in the bill before this House, this very important body was regulated by law. The Basque Cultural Heritage Council. This was regulated by law, and we made amendments to improve the composition of it and aspects that had to do with functioning. And, in view of these amendments, they decided to reduce regulatory regulation. In other words, an organ brings a bill, regulates it by law, and yet, There are some amendments that seem uncomfortable and pun!, it is lowered, it is agreed with the opposition groups or other groups, and it is reduced to regulations, that is to say to regulatory regulation the organization, composition and functions of the same. In other words, it will no longer be the law, but it will be the will of the Basque Government to lead that council. And that, then, we do not share; it does not suit us. The initial idea was very good; it could be improved. But what is not right is that it is the Basque Government, exclusively, who identifies and directs the composition of the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, after the Basque Government itself put it in the bill. That's bad for us. Well, we have also tabled other amendments on the expropriation of cultural property. We wanted a statutory provision in Article 31 that the administrations responsible for the expropriation decision should be responsible for the payment of the justification and the administrative actions of the expropriation decision. And this has not been assumed. We thought it was a rather important issue, because there is a lot of cultural heritage – furniture, real estate – in the hands of individuals, and in that sense, and in the possibility of expropriation, it would be the competent administrations that would have to guarantee to those expropriated administrators some issues; among them, the justification, which is the fundamental element of expropriation. Well, well, it looks like it wasn't about that job. We also sought to deepen guarantees for the one administered before the Administration. In some amendments we have achieved this sensitivity, but in some others we have not, and that is why we maintain them. And we have also maintained different amendments, which were contributions, which were not our occurrences, but were contributions from experts who appeared in the House, which we consider interesting; and we moved them, did not assume, and we kept them. In addition, five have been the amendments in which my group wanted to make it clear that the cultural heritage is also linked to the religious, to the ecclesiastical – one can say – because it was important to highlight it, from our point of view, in some part of the text of the bill, in the explanatory statement, in the articles, in the additional provisions, and we have been unreasonably disappointed. We have tabled five amendments, and one non-binding one. And, note, in article 2, when talking about the scope of the law, we talk about cultural, movable and immovable property, intangible, which has an artistic, historical, archaeological, paleontological, ethnological, anthropological, linguistic, scientific, architectural, even industrial, even feminist value; and yet they are unable to put in a term that, equally, is, in fact, 80% of the Basque cultural heritage: religious or ecclesiastical or diocesan or Christian or Catholic term. That is, incapacitated; neither in the statement of reasons, nor in the joint, nor in an additional provision. Incapacitated. We have put in a wide range of terminology in relation to the description of heritage, and we are unable to make a reference to the largest number of heritage in this autonomous community; that is, it is incredible, it is incredible. It's a lack of sensitivity, Mr. Arruabarrena. I understand you, that you would also have liked something else; but, ultimately, you have voted this, surely for the agreement with Bildu and Podemos, that you will have told them that in no way religious heritage, diocesan or anything like this bill. That is to say, in that sense, I believe that there have not been very fine, and I do not understand why that negative, when the presence and the protagonistism of that type and that characteristic of heritage in our land and in our cultural tradition is so obvious; I say again, in the furniture, in the real estate and in the intangible. So, in that sense, something has failed. And, on the other hand, when we talk about collaboration, about cooperation with our surrounding environment, we still move in the obsession; that is, it continues to focus on Navarra and Iparralde. That, yes, must be stated in the explanatory statement, in the article, in the additional provisions. And we cannot forget who surrounds us, that is, not only Navarra and Iparralde; it is that surrounds us Castile and León, La Rioja or Cantabria, which even have enclaves, enclaves with very important cultural heritage. And can there not be a mention that we can collaborate with other administrations in our environment in the management of cultural heritage? What cultural heritage is beautiful with Castile and León, Burgos, Cantabria, La Rioja? That's right, Navarra and Iparralde. I mean, this still doesn't make this law as complete as it should be. And we also wanted – it does not give me time – to push forward another series of amendments, such as increasing public investment in the protection of cultural heritage, with some other amendments that have remained there and which, of course, have not been accepted. We have tabled 70 amendments; 35 have been marked by the compromise, have been accepted, and another 35 have been rejected, and it is, Madam President, that this group maintains in this plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of the departments and all the members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. It is a great honor to speak in the name of the Socialist Group of the New Law of Esscal, and also to see what has been accomplished in the new Law. The opinion – Mr Barrio has already stressed this – has accepted, incorporated much of the amendments tabled by the groups of Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, but also much of those tabled by the People's Party. It is true that no final consensus has been reached, but the importance of Mr Barrio's work in the parliamentary presentation cannot be undermined. At no time has the rapporteurs questioned it, but they have worked with it until the last moment, and I wanted to say so, because it has been important for them to participate, and because their participation, even though not having accepted all the amendments, has made the bill that entered this Parliament better. All these contributions in the presentation process – I said – have reinforced the potential of this new heritage law of the Basque Country. It is a law that is at the forefront of the needs of the new society. The former Law on Heritage of 1990 was an innovative law, since it contained categories of heritage that had not been contemplated in the legal order of the time; but, over time, it was notorious the need to adopt a new regulation, which responded to this demand to incorporate into the legal order the conceptual evolution that cultural heritage has experienced in recent years, in which the conception of it and the elements that form part of it have been considerably expanded. In response to this need, a bill was introduced that, I stress, has been improved by the contributions agreed between the parliamentary groups, and we are in the adoption of that new law. This law, which we are to accept, admits of the new reality of property, i.e., of interpolated and cultural culture, and also of a new and progressive point of view. The immaterial heritage, with the new cultural manifestations, as I have said, results from the new technologies or history never told of the role of women in our becoming and development as a society and in the story of their history, at last, they are in a law. We began to dare, as stated in the explanatory statement, to take the path, to make the invisible visible, by gathering an integrated approach to the concept of heritage, which would allow us to reconstruct the meanings and meanings of the feminine imaginary, as a great value, always, but also as a cultural value. We put the glasses in the legal texts, the purple glasses, to make visible the legacy and the contribution of women, in this case, in the cultural heritage. It was an amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos, which we have agreed among all, to which no one has opposed and which I am particularly pleased. This law sees the cultural patrimony of society as a instrument which can unite and cohesion, not merely as a sentimental or emotional value, but as a first and subsequent possession of our being, and what we are and what we wish to be. The Socialist Group is committed to a vision of heritage that reflects the plurality of identities of the society to which we belong. The cultural heritage of a country and its protection can never imply biased or partial readings of the reality of our society; that is, the protection of our heritage, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be patrimonialized by those who seek, on both sides, to instrumentalize the culture in favour of a particular political community, adjusted to an ideology or feeling of belonging. If it is done this way, as an element of building one community against another or some Basques against others, it would be a heritage and a protection of our heritage, which is of all and of all, very modest with the true reality of a society, the Basque, in which a diversity of open, plural and vivid identities are integrated and, in short, free – with what we have struggled to be free. I do not think, Mr Barrio, that we can make that interpretation of putting limits on a certain collaboration with Iparralde and Navarra. It's not done. What we do not do is to put administrative limits on an obvious cultural union with these two communities and which we cannot deny, because it has always accompanied us throughout our entire historical becoming as a country, but it is also not true that collaboration with other territories that can also be intimately linked to that historical becoming and to that present management of our heritage is denied. Cultural and Cultural patrimony must be of the highest human rights. Only through culture of Otho can he be part of a community and feel it. We must look far away; look high and not conform; reflect that rich variety of shared identities, which is what it deals with, and I think it has managed to reflect this new law, including sensibilities and perspectives even imagined previously, I again insist, like that of the feminine imaginary. This new law is courageous or bold, or both, in terms of trying to solve the difficult Basque institutional governance. The current LTH presents numerous gaps in Basque cultural management, lacking a cohesive and coordinated vision of the entire institutional architecture. The new heritage law, which will come forward today, is committed to resolving, albeit in a sectoral and limited way, the heritage, the current competitive articulation, contemplating the appropriate channels of inter-institutional coordination and collaboration that allow all Basques to have a country that manages their public resources in a more efficient, coherent and equal manner. In this regard, I believe that there is also the measure of incorporating the interinstitutional body of Basque cultural heritage, which will seek coordination between the competent Basque institutions, as well as the interdepartmental or sectoral one. We have also said and want to stress that this new law has a great impact on winning in participation and democratizing heritage and heritage protection. It has been one of the great consensus achieved and I wanted to point out, because culture and its protection is not solely the responsibility of the institutions, nor only of the specialists, but that all Basque citizens have a fundamental role as protector and bearer of this cultural baggage that constitutes us as a society and as a country. By the name of the Socialist Group, we are peculiarly willing to father the title of industrial estates, which is one of the pillars of multiple identity in our own country. And because they have said it one way or another, all the speakers and the advisor himself, it is an interaction that goes throughout our history as a country, through the transfer of skills, experience, technology and process, throughout our entire past and even in our present. We can say that this time, moreover, with this dedicated specific title, it is no longer a misunderstanding of the industrial heritage, but it is given particular consideration. I end by thanking the people who have appeared in this law and made their contributions before the procedure of presentation; the group of people who in my party or my group have helped me and accompanied me in the procedure of this law, which was not difficult; and especially the other rapporteurs: Mr Estarrona, Mr Arruabarrena, Mr Barrio and Mrs García; also the lawyer who helped us, Mrs Nikolas. I can tell you that I have learned a lot from cultural heritage and I thank you very much. It was a good bill, it was innovative, it started with an important inter-agency agreement that greatly reassured management in the paper, and it was faced from that new perspective. Today, I really think that, despite Carmel's doubts, there is a much better law, enriched by the contributions of the various political groups of the House; neither clamps nor clamps, left or right, nationalists and non-nationalists, who have shown all, all, in truth, responsibility and generosity in the work of a matter, the cultural heritage, which unites Basque citizens above ideologies and feelings of belonging, and which shows that, if we want, we can do great things among all when it comes to advancing the common interest and good of Basque citizens. We have done so with one of the elements that identify us as a country, but above all, that unite us – I want to underline it – beyond even our political differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u9	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. From Elkarrekin We want to highlight the importance of having a new law on Basque cultural heritage. It was a demand from both the professionals in the sector and the various social actors, and a need to ensure adequate protection of the Basque heritage, which is rich and plural, and which, in our view, has not always been properly cared for by the institutions. The previous law regulating Basque cultural heritage dates back to 1990, and this new law seeks not only to adapt to the evolution that the concept of cultural heritage has experienced in recent years, as well as to improve comprehensive management, research, conservation and dissemination, but also to respond to the future challenges of a changing and living sector. That is why, after almost two years of parliamentary procedure and work in the paper, today it will be ratified by the Basque House with a broad consensus. For our parliamentary group, within our commitment to the defence and extension of social rights, we have always claimed the right to culture as a subjective right, understood as the set of practices, expressions, languages and ideas that binds us to a way of understanding the society and the world in which we live; a set of distinctive features and signs of identity that allow us to recognize and share with others a way of living and thinking. As UNESCO stated in its 1982 declaration, "Through culture, people express themselves, become aware of themselves, recognize themselves as an unfinished project, question themselves, seek new meanings and create works that transcend them." And this has been one of the issues that, within the Committee on Culture, Euskera and Sport, we were most concerned about, and we have worked since we entered this House. And, therefore, today we would like to express our satisfaction at the adoption of a text that we believe will address in a more comprehensive and comprehensive way the protection of the Basque cultural heritage. For our parliamentary group, this new legislation addresses the new concepts and challenges facing the heritage area in recent decades. One of the most important is intangible heritage. Cultural heritage is not limited to monuments and collections of objects, but also includes living traditions and expressions inherited from our ancestors and transmitted to our descendants, such as oral traditions, arts and shows, social clubs, rituals, festive acts, knowledge and practices related to nature and the universe, knowledge and techniques linked to traditional craftsmanship and that help us to better understand our identity and our own history. Despite its fragility, intangible cultural heritage is an important factor in maintaining cultural diversity in the face of increasing globalization. Understanding the intangible cultural heritage of different communities contributes to dialogue between cultures and promotes respect for other ways of life. The importance of intangible cultural heritage lies not in the cultural manifestation itself, but in the collection of knowledge and techniques transmitted from generation to generation. The social and economic value of this transmission of knowledge is relevant to the social groups, both minority and majority, of a community. The intangible heritage, in short, is traditional, contemporary and living at the same time, inclusive, representative and community-based. Therefore, the Basque Parliament will today adopt the Basque Cultural Heritage Act, after a year and a half of work in the paper, which has served to make Elkarrekin We can enrich and improve the text presented by the Government. Our amendments have introduced improvements, among which we would like to highlight the value of industrial heritage, feminist and intangible heritage, as well as universal accessibility and transparency. The new legislation will better modulate the balance between the cultural values to be preserved, and adjust their development to ensure their future viability. In addition, it will clearly establish the criteria to guide actions related to the conservation, recovery and development of cultural property. More effective, plural and transparent governance bodies will also be established to address inter-agency coordination and the involvement of social actors. In this new law, a more complete text has been obtained than the one originally presented by the Government, and we want to dwell on three fundamental issues presented by Elkarrekin Podemos. Firstly, in relation to industrial heritage, a title has been created exclusively to address it, recognizing, in this way, a Basque identity which, for centuries, has been characterized by the compatibility of life and production forms respectful of the landscape and the conservation of biodiversity and which, in turn, especially during the twentieth century, has been shaped by establishing a characteristic and special link with the forms of work, places, trades and buildings that constituted unique elements of the industrial revolution of Euskadi, a revolution that brought about a change in the way of life and in the landscape of countless cities and peoples of Basque geography, giving them a distinct and characteristic meaning. The factory as a workplace was not only the source of family income, but also the area of demand for dignity, socialization and association and the construction of a better future for the next generations. For this reason, we felt it important to introduce into the text the protection of the natural and landscape and industrial heritage as an identity element of many of our towns and cities, especially in the face of excessive pressure from sectors such as agriculture and fisheries, intensive sectors and the real estate sector, preventing them from being subject to actions that prevent their future reuse or distort their character. Moreover, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we have also introduced in the new law the recognition of the feminist heritage, which includes a concept of heritage that allows to reconstruct the meanings and meanings of the feminine imaginary as cultural value, and that serves to facilitate the action of public policies that make visible and revalue as differential elements the legacy and the contribution of women. We wanted to reflect on the conceptualization itself of what heritage is, and to ensure that it not only covers the goods produced and displayed by the elites, and that it focuses not only on the tangible and the built, but also on other resources, inheritances and knowledge of historically invisible social groups, as has been the case with women; in short, a concept of heritage with an integrated approach to the public, the private and the productive and the reproductive, that allows to reconstruct the meanings and meanings of the feminine imaginary as cultural value with differential elements. Finally, and as the third great contribution that Elkarrekin Podemos has managed to introduce, the object of the law is included in article 1, the Universal Accessibility Act, so that all citizens can enjoy the Basque heritage. The Basque Cultural Heritage Act, designed to ensure not only its protection and conservation, but also to ensure its knowledge, research and enhancement, must be understood. It cannot leave aside measures and actions necessary to ensure the conditions of universal accessibility and the right of access to the cultural heritage of all persons, irrespective of their social strata, race or gender, and also to pay special attention to persons with disabilities. It must therefore respect articles 9 and 30 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, approving the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion; and the Law on the Promotion of Accessibility, approving technical standards on accessibility conditions for urban environments, public spaces, buildings and information and communication systems, which are already in force in our Community. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we want to emphasize that it is of no use to preserve and protect the heritage of Euskadi if we cannot enjoy it by all the citizens. And we have worked to ensure a law that respects the rights recognized, universal accessibility and equal opportunities, so that in our Community the heritage is more accessible and inclusive. We will therefore vote in favour of this rule, which, thanks to our contributions and those of the other groups, will respond more effectively to the current challenges of safeguarding, defending and preserving the Basque cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u11	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. We often talk of the manner in which men are placed in the centre of politics, but not of what we do in the centre of politics. And, as in the case of politics, as in most districts of life, the persons you have before are decisive, above other elements, and in the art of politics, and in some cases above the Sigla and ideology of a political party. And I think we've been able to do it in the works of the Euskal Kulcan Act, in a great measure. We who have sat round that table have heard it without prejudice or prejudice. We have succeeded in placing Cultural, Land, Law, and Policy in the centre, above all contexts and other political necessities, and consequently has been a constructive position throughout the whole process, as has been expressed by those who have first received the word. There have been a lot of contributions made by the law, and not all to be mentioned in a few minutes, so I'd like to focus on two quantum contributions we made today. First of all, that's an Imagmatic patrific patrimony. When I got the bill to Parliament, we identified from the start that the biggest gap was there. That's why in the Basque Country we're asking for a series of the most qualified people in the industrial domain of their territory. Twenty-two candidates were demanded, 15, our teams were ordered, and many of them, in the neighbourhood of the imperturbable estate. Today, with firmness and assurance, we may say that we shall have a very advanced law in the world of Europe, and that has been a great political contribution in the context of this globalized world in which we live. For it is one of the most efficacious principles of the identity of any human community. For identity builds itself in action, we do what we do, and, as far as we do with others in a shared manner, we create a net, and, consequently, the people of the country. So it's important that the laws protect the nature of our country, which we are. The traditions of tradition may be protected as it were by the knowledge and customs, habits, customs, or customs, or manufactures, of nature and the universe, or as it were by means of manufactures and manufactures. The nature of our people, which we are, as society and country, is therefore the same. And this, as I have said before, is a contribution of great dimensions and political weight, an important contribution from a nation and nation. Second quantitative in the new rule: a legacy of euscal culture has been collected in the most extensive respects, because the euscal culture does not understand the administrative system of land or division. In spite of this, although, from the present administrative frame, Araba, Gipu, and the law of Bizkai, the culture of Navarre, Northern and Diaspo, as they are part of the culture of eussacal culture, have been preserved in co-ordination, encouraged, and established in the law by the contributions of our party. This is the case in article 6. "Jagarians will first promote their co-operation, and their cultured alliance with the Erescany of Euscany, with societies, historical, or linguistic. For this purpose the co-worker and co-worker will be able to form them, as it were, with the public and private institutions of the autonomy and country, and with the diaspopor which is articulated in the external communities." This remark too: Essalka Colsecivity, diasporal, is acknowledged as its importance in the cultural estate of eroscal, as it has never been before. And if it be not plain in the definition of Article 6. "Excellent reality, cultural and linguistic, EukMingo will promote agreements with the Navarre Government and the Central Center of the North in the field of cultural culture." Thus, as I have said, the Essalka is received in the most comprehensive light. Hence, if we read the law, we repeat a great deal throughout the law of Euskal Autonomy Escal culture in Erlaboria. Apart from these two contributions, of political dimensions and cultural weights, the representatives of the political parties who have already received the word, and the heads of the Zupiria themselves have mentioned many other positive and important elements received in the law: and the contributions of industry and feministness. Many of them have been encouraged or protected by us, and I will not go in one by one. But today, I'd like to bring here the contributions of another grade, but they are three small victories that have been important to me and to us. On the one hand, surrounded by visual contagion and aqueous contagion. At first he proposed to prohibit the installations of items which cause visual contagion. We have also acquired the power of prohibiting the invasive perception, or any other element, which degrades the value of interference, or context, over a cultural domain; and we have also acquired the same aquestic contagion, not only in movable and movable domains, but also in the imperturbable domains. And apart from regulating, on the register of each property, this legacy has its imperfect elements all around it, we've managed to get them, and if that were only a short time ago, we'd need to have funk and pillows getting out of here and have plans to make up for us. Second, reference to the digital region of euscal culture as well as the laws, because digital estates, created from an analogical object as virtualised or as a digital object, are more and more so than the traditional distribution of the physical world in our society, as described by Mr. Zupiria, and is gathered into a new digital cultural space. And, if it is still too early to know what measures and resources are needed in this period of digitalization to protect, at least, this new reality is foreseen and collected in the law. And finally, around the balcony. We've been able to get in at the last moment to consider it as euscal culture lands, as the category of the imperturbable estate. Special in personal, but important, especially for our country and our fellow-citizens, the confession of our ancestors, of our previous generations, of their memory, of regeneration, respect, of the information surrounding it. In many cases the institutional policy is not easy, but I am at least delighted with the work I've done today, with my colleagues and the results I've had. And if this be so, it has been owing to the contributions of so many agents and persons who have been initiated and active, on the one hand, and thanks to them, on the other because of the honesty of their contributions to the Cultural Department of Kylon; and lastly, as I have said at first, that it is because of the ideology and other political necessities and elements of different political cultures which we have worked on, and that the construction of democracy and the method of understanding and of understanding politics is also a matter of culture. With this new law of the Basque Province, people, politics, culture, and people have won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u12	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u13	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, Mr. President, good morning. Well, Mr. Estarrona has finished thanking me, and first of all, I'll begin to thank the companions we've had in this year and a half and a half. We have created a fine environment in the pomp, there have sometimes been real discussions, sometimes half-philosophical, but at last we have introduced them as corrections, and I believe it has been an example of how a law can be exercised without prejudice. Secondly, for the Government, and I do not say this because it is my turn, and, Mr. Zupiria, you know better than I do: equipazo And thirdly, there have been 14 persons or associations in the demonstrations, I think, Agustin Fasting is also among us today. It's a great job. How many hours! Sometimes the size of the law gave us what they did, comparing it with the former law, and comparing it with the other laws. What a contribution! How many hours they've been through! Really, praiseful. We approved of this law last month, examined it, tried to sum up a concept which shortened the essence or philosophy of the law, and so did you, chief physician, with your words: Democratize. Law honek kultura-wave demokratizatu Egyptian du, age hori ez da terma pomposo bat. It is not one of these slogans that sometimes governments "I don't say this one," all the governments of the world and all the politicians, in general, we use; it really democratizes. And it does, in the first place... We had a dilemma, didn't we? And it's how an intangible good is protected, because protecting a altarpiece is easy – well, relatively easy –: one puts 100,000 euros, and that remains like the first day it was made. But how is bertsolarism protected, for example? One of the amendments that we have included, which we are working with the Government in its day, was to categorize intangible assets, so that, behind each category – I am going to set the example of betsolarism so that it can be understood – there was a working table between the carrier collective, that is, the people who enjoy and love betsolarism – in this case, they could meet around Bertsozaleen Elkartea, for example – and the Government. That is to say, that it was not a declaratory thing, such as saying "the Government considers it fundamental to bebertsolarism in the Basque intangible heritage", no; beyond that, we try, and I believe that we have achieved and believe that it is an important advance of the law, that intangible culture is lived and worked from below, because, in the background, it is the intangible goods that live the carrier collectives, the people who enjoy them, who know them and who love them. Therefore, ekarpen bear garrantzitsu bat nik uste dut hori her. Bigarren ekarpen bat, which I believe has also had a certain boldness when it comes to putting it forward by the Government in its bill, is that all the goods listed in municipal urban approaches, all the goods listed by municipalities and cities, are now in line with the protection provided by the law that we are going to pass today. If we are talking about that cultural heritage is what is known and that, after knowing it, is loved, it is estimated – because, if not, it would be old things, wouldn't it? – the fact of calling it heritage and not old thing means that we know it, and who knows its heritage better and closer to it, in this case, material, or also immaterial, than a city council? Therefore, as a result of the adoption of this law, property declared as property and which will henceforth be subject to a basic protection regime will rise exponentially, but I think it will be good for the protection of the Basque heritage. Thirdly, we very much limit administrative silence, which is a right that all administrations have, but which must be limited. That is to say, when we give greater channels of participation, when we almost encourage citizens and associations to request the opening of a protection file, I think it is important that the administration then responds and says yes or no, and, moreover, it is going to be done within a much shorter time frame than is currently being done. Therefore, the third way by which the participation of citizens, let us say, is strengthened. Fourthly, there is the Heritage Advisory Council. Previously, and as is the case in much of the world, there is a certain monopoly when it comes to saying how well it is protected and what it is not, and that monopoly, normally, is held by the institutions; in this case, it was held by the Basque Government. The fact that there is a council formed, for example, half Government, half independent advisers, independent experts from the university, of areas that keep this knowledge, and make and form part of this deliberative process, is also to democratize the cultural heritage. Finally, it has been stressed that information about the processes in public hearings is not only addressed to the affected, but also to interested persons, who may be associations or natural persons who have among their concerns the hermitage of their neighbourhood or a typical dance of the people. Therefore, there are several ways in which citizen participation and democratization deepen in Euskadi in a pioneering way, because we all had an impression and a weight on our backs. We had a weight on our shoulders when we wanted to renew the 1990 law, which is that the previous one was already a precursor, and, clarro, that's what gives you a kind of weight. And to make a copy of the laws which are now in the other autonomies, I think it was not an occasion. And from the first bill of laws the government acted with ambition, and it must be discovered, and I believe that the degree of regeneration has been high today for the Government. And secondly, we tried to negotiate from the first moment to bring the texts closer to the rest of the world, to the Popular Party, to Podemos and EH Bilri, and then to make a real discussion on the subject. And that's the result of a certain consensus. The popular party is a little out of the consensus. I am sorry, Mr Barrio, but the truth is that you have emphasized the issue of religious heritage, which is already included in the categories already set out in the law, and I will also tell you that there is no – and I will not establish odious comparisons – but there is no autonomous law supported by absolute majority of the People's Party, neither in Madrid, nor in Galicia, more effective protection of any heritage, among others also religious. Therefore, well, I too end with the good tone that my fellow travellers have used and also Mr Zupiria. Really, thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u14	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing the answer shift, representative of the Basque Popular Group. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u15	Yes, Madam President, with your permission, from the seat. Very briefly, because there has been no reply, logically. Each group has made its approach to this law, and we have done so at first, and then there has been no response. I do want to say that, in fact, it was necessary to work out a law of these characteristics, but I want to say that it could have been better. I mean, Mr Arruabarrena now tells me that in other laws there are no certain regulations, but neither is the industrial or feminist heritage identified or regulated, or even the scientist is not mentioned. That is to say, in this sense, what we wanted, since it was done, in the field of the application of the law – Article 2 – so wide and in the exposition of such broad motives, a definition and so concrete detail of the forms of the expressions of the patrimony, in addition in its furniture, immovable and immaterial areas, we thought that it could have been and would have been good, and fair, above all, the opportunity to have made that reference that has to do with the artistic, with the historical, with the ethnographic, with the cultural, in an essential way, that it is that patrimony that we understand that could be defined. We called it religious, but it has many meanings; we did not want to define it as Christian or Catholic, not even as ecclesiastical or diocesan, but we included it in that expression. I think that was a deficit in this bill. We have made this clear; we have spoken before the others, about some of the issues that we wanted to refine in relation to expropriation and justification, in relation to investment in cultural property or in relation to some of the other issues that have remained there. But, well, I mean, that's what we're going to vote for now. He's going to refuse. But I do want to highlight an element that I have also said before, when we talked about the democratization of the law, which, indeed, has progressed, surely, in these aspects, the intangible heritage has been regulated in a way that I believe will be complicated to manage but also interesting to see how it is managed, because it is necessary to do so. I believe that what made clear was that in a law providing for the creation of such an important body as the Heritage Council of the Basque Autonomous Community, i.e. regulated in a law, and regulated in its composition, organisation and functions, in the legislative process, it is decided to reduce the legislative regulation to administrative regulation, I believe that is a profound error. I think it was good that the law had set much better than a regulation; we could have debated it, we could have studied it. We had proposals for enlargement. We would have accepted much debate regarding the composition or functions or the organization of the Basque Heritage Council. We have made some shortcomings in the previous laws in relation to bodies that have not worked. We wanted a body to function in the service of administration, in the service of stakeholders, in the service of heritage. I believe that the fact that a bill reduced a matter that was set by legal regulation to administrative regulation is a profound error. And in relation to what I said before also about our surroundings. In other words, the explanatory statement talks about facilitating the framework for cooperation with communities such as the Euroregion Aquitaine-Euskadi and Navarra. That is, there are more communities that share with us part of their rich cultural heritage. Many, many communities. And those, in some way, though generic, could have been said: Aquitaine, Navarra, Iparralde and other communities in our environment. How easy it would have been and how I would have completed this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Lady Romero from there. Basque Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u17	President, if I may, from the seat. I didn't mean not to answer. I believe that in the speech I have given you an answer as to why we were going to vote against it and why we support the law. We truly believe that there is democratization, an improvement in participation with this new law; we sincerely believe it. We do not understand that there is such a regulatory deviation in those terms and that this will harm. We believe that the will, indeed, has been to take a qualitative leap. I have also responded with regard to the relations of culture in the Basque Autonomous Community with Iparralde, with Navarra and with other places; I have said so. It is undeniable, as a community, that we should highlight that relationship which has no limits on administrative borders and which does not end there, of course. Because they also unite us with the rest of the communities, as set out in the law itself, cultural ties – here we have the Way of Santiago, which has been discussed on more than one occasion in the Commission. It's not true, it wasn't meant to. I know that you know him, that he continues to debate his position, but the only thing that I have forgotten, but because it is that the religious heritage, like religion, is so present in our country, I believe that the law does not omit the relationship and reference to the religious heritage, let alone the cultural budgets in any institution of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which have always been very strongly linked to that protection and safeguarding of the religious heritage. That was not the intention, and therefore it was the way, I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u19	... of religious heritage to answer you. So, I keep the positive. Mr Barrio, you have also worked on the agreements that we alone have underlined, and even on the reference to the feminist heritage, and that has been the will of all. Mr. Arruabarrena said so. In the end, we've put some things on top of others, and the best law we've ever been able to do has come out. It may be better, but we think the effort has been worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Mrs. García must not speak. Estarrona? He mustn't speak. Not even the bottoms. [[Pause]] The discussion is over and we'll have to vote. It will be agreed, together, that the Euscal Groups of Populars are the corrections reserved to the articles of judgment, and the two corrections to add other additional regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u21	So the corrections are not accepted. They're going to vote together with the articles of irication with which they've been corrected. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u22	So they're accepted. After this, the articles and regulations of the judgment, which have not been corrected, will be agreed to vote together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u23	So they're unanimous. They're going to vote at once with the explanation that the Euskal populars have reserved. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u24	So the corrections are not accepted. His explanation will be put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u25	So the explanation was accepted. The name of the law will be transferred to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u26	So the name of the law is allowed, and by this the law of Euskal Cultural. Second point on the subject list: "Hey collect together, Podemos and Euskal, Popular... [[Berber]] Yeah, but you don't have to vote, no. It's corrected. You don't have to vote. Second point on the subject list: "H Collect, together with the law-proposital proposition made by the Parlamentary Team of Podemos and Euscals, in order to transfer the 7/1994 Act of Commerce on May 27th to the establishment of great offices and to increase. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." Those who want to be on the side shift, on the side shift? Mrs. lópez, representing the Potula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning also to the representatives of the merchant associations for their presence for this initiative that we present the People's Group and the other opposition groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u28	Quiet, please. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u29	This initiative refers to the need to amend our regulations on commercial activity and, in particular, the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments. The Sectoral Plan for Economic Activities and Commercial Equipment of 2004 approved in this House, with a broad consensus, the limitation of the maximum area for commercial equipment; the European Parliament Directive 2006 and its transposition into our legislation amended the legal regime for the establishment of large commercial establishments; and Law 7/2008, amending the Commercial Activity, in its final provision, established the mandate for the revision of the PTS in force since 2004, to make this adaptation. This, which was not changed at the time, resulted in an appeal in 2010 to the agreement of the City of San Sebastián for the final approval of the General Plan of Urban Planning of Donosti. This appeal had a five-year course and reached the Supreme Court, which, in September 2015, by judgment of 3 September, declared void the limitations on the location and size of commercial equipment set out in the PTS of economic activities and commercial equipment, which are exclusively economic and commercial and therefore prohibited both by the European Directive and by Law 17/2009, and which will only be authorized for justified and compelling reasons of general interest, including those relating to environmental protection and land management, including urban and rural planning. A judgment that tells us that what is now appropriate is to give legal status to the criteria of management that we want to apply, in order to continue with the objective of promoting a model of trade balance, commercial activity being a determining factor in our towns and cities. Urban trade, together with hospitality, is a basic element of our social life model. In addition, it promotes the local economy, promotes social relations and enhances the activity of urban centres. In the question that we were presenting to the adviser on this matter in December, he told us that he was in the idea of starting the elaboration of a legislative initiative, which would correspond to a preliminary draft law on territorial regulation of large commercial establishments in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Knowing the deadlines that a preliminary draft of these characteristics has for its processing, and with an advanced legislature, it was doubtful that its approval could be given in this legislature. Moreover, the annulment by judgment of the limitations on the maximum area of commercial equipment set out in the PTS has led to an avalanche of municipal authorizations for the establishment of commercial centres on the outskirts of urban centres or industrial polygons, especially in Gipuzkoa, which requires regulation as to their implementation, in order to curb the chaos that the absence of regulations is causing. In view of these facts, the opposition groups understood that what was happening at the moment was the presentation in the process of the proposed law which we are presenting today amending Law 7/1994 of 27 May of the Commercial Activity, on the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments, a proposal of law which was presented to all the groups of the House at the time by the association of traders Euskal Dendak, and which we made our own and which we presented with the aim of moving forward on the purpose, coincident with the Government, of drawing up a legislative initiative. These four months, and on the proposal of the Government, we have worked to bring forward positions in a text that can be brought closer to the objective we are pursuing: to promote a model of commercial urbanism and of occupation and rational use of the territory, with commercial uses that allow the sustainable development of our neighborhoods, of our towns and cities, based on the principles of social cohesion, where the planning of commercial equipment takes into account the diverse needs and expectations of all the neighbours, of the citizens, whether or not they have the possibility to move; also urban cohesion, a model of city where residential use is harmonized with commercial, services, sports and leisure activities; and environmental cohesion: avoiding unnecessary displacement that causes congestion of infrastructure and increases pollution. It is clear that the formats of peripheral commercial establishments are in a process of maturity and stagnation; that, in addition, the behaviour of the Basque consumer, according to age, shows that, at an older age, more urban commercial consumption and less evasion into external commercial formats; that the younger population, 18 to 34 years old, the expenditure divides it to 50-50 between urban and peripheral consumption, but that those over 65 years old do so by an 80-20: 80% consumption in urban trade, 20% in peripheral trade. If we add to this the data of the Eustat, which says that in 12 years, in 2031, the population over 55 will be 45% of Basque society, that the population over 70 will be 21% of Basque society, and that this is going to change our cities and our way of life, clearly, the peripheral shopping centres have no future. That is why, from the Group of the European People's Party, we are pleased that this initiative can be taken into account today; we are pleased to be able to initiate a procedure in this House to move forward on this necessary management in an imperative way, to put an end to the chaos that is taking place in some authorizations and so that we can adopt a regulation on the territorial regulation of large commercial establishments. That is the interest that the People's Group has motivated us to present this initiative, together with the other opposition groups, EH Bildu group and Elkarrekin Podemos group. Let us hope that the Government will also encourage this procedure to be favourable, and that we can move towards a text in which we can all agree and that we will be able to do what we want, as I said to them: to regulate the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments, which we have today in a vacuum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u31	Good morning again, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. The circular economy has been strongly introduced into the current policy of the European Union, where the right direction to take passes through the urgent transition to a paradigm shift based on the logic of sustainability. In a circular economic model, natural capital is protected and material and energy resources are maximized, so that they remain as long as possible in the production and consumption cycle; externalities are avoided and materials and instances are recovered that are subsequently reintegrated into the system. The European Union is determined to seriously promote the transition to a circular economy model compared to the conventional linear economy of resource use, product manufacture, consumption and disposal. For our parliamentary group, we must bring to today's debate the need to make possible a transition that covers all the orders of society, from the way in which we produce to the way in which we consume, and in what we now also deal with with the proposed law that we present today in the way in which we design commercial activity. With this situation, it is a fact that the big shopping centers proliferate in Euskadi, and this situation becomes unviable in certain areas of Gipuzkoa. The opening of new shopping centres means giving the tip to the neighborhood trade, as well as providing feedback on an unsustainable consumption model. This type of policy is in the antipodes of the strategy of food sovereignty and proximity trade that we have always defended since Elkarrekin. For us it is essential to defend urban trade, which is sustainable at urban, environmental and economic level, and we must take measures to ensure the protection and improvement of urban business environments, especially in historic centres, and to minimise negative environmental impacts. In short, current production and consumer models must address a rapid and just transition, without leaving anyone behind, evolving from the economy of cycles open to the economy of closed cycles, so that the economic system is more efficient, rational and sustainable. The establishment of large, uncontrolled and indiscriminate commercial establishments is contrary to the general interest of society, not only because it does not favour proximity trade and fosters a model of precarious and low-quality employment, but mainly because the impact of these large commercial areas directly affects the environment and the sustainability of the municipalities where they are built or expanded. It must be borne in mind that it is necessary not to occupy soils, in order to protect natural spaces and the rural environment, avoiding the construction of new roads, as well as the increase in forced displacement by car and the desertification of urban areas. Several judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union describe the concept of 'imperious reasons of general interest', referred to in certain requirements and covering the protection of the environment and the urban environment, including urban and rural planning. Moreover, as a result of the absence of regulatory constraints for the peripheral establishment of large commercial establishments, cities lose their lives and much more the periphery, neighbourhoods and villages. Therefore, and following the path already undertaken by other rules, such as the Soil Law, it is also necessary that the law regulating commercial activities should focus on how to contribute to this transition. It should be remembered that the initiative we are presenting today is the conclusion of an agreement reached in this House almost a year ago. On 14 June this Parliament adopted a non-legislative proposal calling for agreement on the need to regulate the distribution of commercial supply, taking as a reference five criteria: adequate spatial planning, the need for transport and infrastructure planning, the protection of the environment, the need to ensure the accessibility of the entire population and the need to revitalize the urban fabric. To this end, the Basque Government was urged to complete the processing of the new sectoral territorial plan for the public creation of land for economic activities and the management of large commercial establishments, which would prohibit the establishment or expansion of new large commercial establishments; to amend article 13 of the Act on Commercial Activities; and not to take measures to facilitate the opening or expansion of large commercial spaces. In his speech in that plenary, I recalled my colleague Pili Zabala who had already spent more than two years since, in March 2016, the Governing Council adopted the agreement to initiate the revision of the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Economic Activities and Commercial Equipment, pursuant to the Supreme Court ruling of 3 September 2015, which declared null and void the determinations imposing limitations on the maximum area for commercial equipment. And, as you can see, almost a year later, we're still the same. Usually, in this House, it is said to recognize and value small trade, but the passivity, slowness in legislating and, on the other hand, the supposed haste in requalifications contrasts with these declarations of the parties that support the Government. I insist, we have been without any legal limit for more than three years to restrict the opening and expansion of large commercial establishments, thus implying legal uncertainty. In the face of the government's premeditated inaction, from Elkarrekin We can always agree with the merchant associations and with the proposal that we are presenting today, which starts, as Mrs López de Ocariz has already said, from one of the associations, because we understood that it was the right way and the one that will give greater legal certainty, and that it was, of course, through the amendment of article 13 of the Act on Commercial Activity. And that is why we are here, debating a proposal for a law to amend this article 13 and to go further into the criteria for the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments, with the aim of giving legal status to the criteria of management that are to guide the establishment and expansion of large commercial centres, in order to defend the general interest. An initiative that must be remembered that we registered in December 2018, and that in these months we have been working. And I understand and, moreover, I believe that we have had the patience to achieve as much consensus as possible, because we understand that it is a law that we are not only asked for from the sector, because part of it itself, but that, without the consensus and support of most of the forces, it would lose all the meaning and importance that we believe it has. The question is that the initiative we are presenting not only goes into regulating aspects relating to territorial planning determinations, which we believe can and should be regulated by a specific rule, but also addresses aspects which would not fit into a rule on territorial planning and which we believe are more likely to be contained in a rule dedicated to commercial activity. Regulation in the area of the management of commercial equipment and, in particular, the criteria and requirements which impose restrictions on the preservation of certain purposes have been the subject of extensive case law analysis by both the Court of Justice of the European Union and State courts. Provisions guaranteeing the freedom of establishment of service providers – and commercial distribution is – may exceptionally be subject to an authorisation scheme – provided that this is not discriminatory in nature – and to their need and that the objective cannot be achieved by a less restrictive measure. In conclusion, the amendment complies with all the conditions established by the European Union. It is justified on grounds of general interest – the preservation of the environment, the revitalization of the centres of towns and cities – and also meets the criteria of proportionality and discrimination. And all the changes are supported by the practice and jurisprudence of the European Union. For not further extending me, and providing every detail of the proposal that we have brought to this House today together with the People's Party and EH Bildu, I would like to conclude by pointing out that, on the basis of the principle of territorial sustainability, we are defending the environment and the revitalization of urban trade, in addition to promoting the impulse of proximity trade, achieving a more just and balanced pattern of consumption and production, which is obviously projected on the need to limit the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments in Euskadi, which is exactly what we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u33	Good morning, everyone. My mother's heard me talk about the PTS. My partner's heard me talk about the PTS. I was wondering yesterday, do you have a point tomorrow? Yeah. What topic? The PTS. Again? My seven-year-old asks me: aita, zer moduz PTSarekin? The press colleagues escape when I go with the PTS. The rest of the teammates think that the PTS is something like the Azores' anti-cyclone, something that's always been there, that's always going to be there. But no, it seems that we have finally reached the resolution phase. I don't want to get big, but I'm going to bring up a quote from Churchill when the battle of England ended and he said, "This is not the end; it's not even the beginning of the end, but at least it's the end of the beginning." And I believe that with this issue that has been so long, that it has been too long, at last, today we will reach the end of the beginning. I don't think history has been told, and I'm not going to go deep on certain things that I say, but I want to remember certain landmarks. In 2006 Bolkestein was tested, which supposes that the ability of states and other entities to reduce things is also diminished in the name of free competition. This obliges him to adapt himself to all the laws. In this parliament, in 2008, a change of the law of commerce was attempted, and by a last regulation the plan of the country was made to fit Bolkestein to the right. In 2009, the government refused to make that arrangement, and said that the reasonings already received in the planet of the country were legal and should not be changed. In 2010 there was an appeal, as has been mentioned before, and, after the first instance of winning Christmas, in the second instance at the Supreme Court of Madrid, there was a number of local plans that had been abandoned. And consequently there is no legal limitation in this country to establish more extensive commerce, and to increase those which exist. But, as has often been said, while the Supreme Power shuts this door, it opens another door, and concludes, that those restrictions, and reasons to exclude this plan in the country, are not to be established at all, but that these restrictions must always reason and establish them in general reasonings of interest, and that a Law ought to reason for them. The reason, therefore, of general interest, and of the law. This door remains open, and the Supreme Power itself confirms that there are opportunities to reduce the great tracts of commerce, but the former Government and the present Government have not taken advantage of the possibility of doing what was to be done. Since this legal vacuum, with cause in the Supreme's judgment, the door for the indiscriminate proliferation of large areas and the expansion of existing ones, has been open. In February 2016, a few months after the judgment, we requested the appearance of the former Territorial Planning Advisor, who is now our companion in this House, who is not at this time, Mrs Oregi, to explain what the Government intended to recompose the situation, bearing in mind that the Supreme Court itself had accepted that there were certain cases under which, legally and in accordance with European Union case law, the establishment of commercial centres could be restricted. We weren't given any concretion. We were told nothing more than the redundancy of saying that the sentence was to be applied and that certain provisions of the territorial plan for shopping malls were therefore to be annulled, but neither the contents nor the deadlines for recomposing the previous situation were mentioned. Faced with this, in March 2016, we brought to this House a non-legislative proposal, in which precisely that was called for: a road map and commitments around contents, to restore the situation prior to the Supreme's sentence. We had no chance of moving that proposal forward. The legislature ended and this began, and we continue to pressure the government and, in this case, to ask Mr Arriola what he intended. At the beginning of the legislature he told us that yes, that now they were going to remake the PTS. Almost two years have passed or have passed of dimes and directs, of ambiguous proposals, of varied proposals around this new reformulation of the PTS. Stable time in which attempts to open new large surfaces have proliferated, especially in Gipuzkoa. And given this situation, in 2018, as has also been mentioned, a new non-law proposal, which, in this case, received the majority support of the House, requested a schedule, contents to restore the PTS and make a law or modify the law to support it. Because we no longer trust that the Government had a real will. And when in October of last year, last year, the Government says that it is going to make a law and that, therefore, it stops the work of almost two years in the realization of the new PTS, it is when all the alarms are definitely gone and we believe that we must take the initiative and that we must propose the amendment of the law by the opposition, as has also been said, in this case, at the request of a trade association. And it was a serious situation. Meanwhile, some of them didn't stop. Some have taken steps to set up new points of commerce, and to increase the commerce of commerce, especially in Gipuzia. This is a map of the Gipuz. Black is the points of commerce which already exist in black; and the points of commerce which seek to expand or open in red. This is supposed to double the surface. And these projects are not threatening, they are not speculations, these projects are in progress in different stages of development, but they are already active. Here we have the last date given by Eustate, the sale of the great trading stations, and the last year it has come down to 1%. Hartzen badugu hau éta hau, hau da, eskaintza biderkatzea eta bailen jaitsera, éta, exacten den moduan, what can go wrong? If we double the commercial offer in a sector that is in reverse, what can go wrong? Well, everything can go wrong. It can go wrong that, if this had gone ahead, the big malls themselves would have had problems, because there is no demand to absorb this excess of supply, but, along the way, they would have swept the small ones. As the African proverb says, when elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. And, if this really was a misconception even from the point of view of the viability of the big malls, in the meantime and while some of these openings had occurred, the small trade would have suffered, and in some cases would have disappeared. In the United States there is talk of retail apocalypse Fortunately, we'll end this, and, luckily, we'll give this a solution. This is not just what I believe, but what I think is to be reported and said to-day, it is not only because the plan of the country was abandoned. Several townships and various parties have in many cases active attitudes. It is not only that the law obliged them to accept so many settings, but in many cases the townships and several parties have changed the legislation, and that the HAPOs have changed the use of such vaccinations as to enable them to do so. They've helped, they've had a projection attitude against the big ones and the small ones. Now, with this law, as I was saying, it will end if the play is successful, and if the law succeeds, it will end with this unacceptable situation. It is not possible for us to continue in this situation. It was necessary to narrow it down, it was necessary to put an order and it was necessary to restore the previous balance, because it is a balance that we seek both for the planning of the territory and for the internal balance between the different commercial formats. We usually say – we have at least one doctor in the room; I don't know if there will be any more – that aspirin, in addition to removing the headache, is good for the heart because of its anticoagulant effect and prevents heart attacks. At least that was said before; I don't know if you have changed your mind about doctors, like with eggs and other things that every month is something different. Well, it looks like it. And everyone will agree that a heart attack is worse than a headache. Aspirin is actually used to remove headache, but as a side effect, it produces something that is even more beneficial. Today, we are going to restrict shopping centres from the point of view of the organization of the territory. We have reasons for this, and that kind of reason is consistent and tolerated by European legislation. But also, as a positive side effect, we are going to restore a balance between the different commercial formats, because everyone has their place, also the big malls, but that place has to be balanced. There cannot be allowed to be added advantages in fiscal terms or in terms, as in this case, of indiscriminate possibilities of implementation for some sectors to the detriment of others. This law – I am concluding – could be practically already in force if we had followed the logical processing and the ordinary times of the processing. The Government asked us for time to negotiate and try to reach an agreement, and we gave it time. But a moment has already come when we have decided to give way to this procedure because we have realized that in certain respects we have not been able to agree, because we have fundamental discrepancies. When the processing time starts, we'll keep listening. It is not about imposing, it is not about rolling, it is not about making a roller; it is about reaching the best possible law. It is not a question of putting the finger in the eye of the Government, although, for many of the things I have mentioned, it would in part deserve it, but it is essentially a question of restoring territorial and commercial balance. This is an offer to build, this is a law to improve people's lives, and all of us who are in that task will find ourselves throughout the process, which, from our point of view, will be faced in a constructive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u34	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Who wants to participate in the opposite round? Okay. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u35	Yes, thank you, President. The Socialist Group did not intend to intervene at this time, but rather in the explanation of vote, but I believe that some of the speeches we have heard here leave no choice but to at least try to clarify the position of the Basque Government and also that of the Socialist Group on this proposal for a law. Nothing to say, nothing to object to the intervention made by the Basque People's Group by Mrs Mari Carmen López de Ocariz; we absolutely share all his arguments, except the question of the presentation of the bill, and I will explain why. The rest, absolutely nothing objectionable. Look, the Basque Socialists do not support, and we cannot support, with our vote in favour of this bill, because we understand that this document, which we are taking into consideration here today, does not have sufficient legal guarantees for those who are going to operate in the field of trade. It does not have sufficient legal guarantees that, once remedies have been raised by commercial operators in the courts, the municipalities, which will ultimately be the ones granting or not granting authorizations to the implementation or expansion of large commercial areas, may have legal guarantees so that they do not ultimately have to pay those claims, large financial claims made by those commercial operators. We cannot vote in favour of this bill because we understand that it reiterates criteria that have already been annulled in the Sectoral Territorial Plan for the Creation of Public Soil for Economic Activities and the Implementation of Large Commercial Equipment; they are criteria already annulled by judgement in 2015 of the PTS, of that Sectoral Territorial Plan. Moreover, this document reiterates criteria that are also in contravention of Community and State law. We therefore believe that it does not enjoy the maximum legal guarantees so that operators can, as I say, the municipalities, the local institutions, which will ultimately have to be at least consistent with the decisions they take, and surely all these issues will end up in court. We know this because it has been happening in other autonomous communities, and also, logically, it will end up being so in the Basque Autonomous Community. The Basque Socialists and the Government do not share either the form of this bill, the substance or the material regulation it raises, as I say, because it re-offends on criteria that have already been annulled by the courts. We don't understand why you're trying to... We would understand a proposal for a law that would accommodate one of the three alternatives to the sectoral territorial plan that the Basque Government has been working on and that reached the end of its process in terms of the progress of this modification of the sectoral territorial plan. We would have understood that this proposal for a law should be accepted as the second alternative, that of the restriction on large commercial areas, but on the basis of territorial planning criteria. But this is not the case. The material regulation of this proposal of law that bring us here to take into consideration goes beyond, turns the nut further, conditions and concentrates what are the large surfaces, in question of the footage of those surfaces, which equals them in what is equal to or greater than 700 square meters, which before was not. We understand and share that the spirit of the PTS, of the 2004 Sectoral Territorial Plan, which achieved broad consensus, could also be the subject of this bill. But no. You are once again talking about minority trade, about defending retail trade, and that does not mean that the Basque Government is against retail trade or that the Basque Socialists are against small trade. What means is that, in order to make material regulation that protects that small trade, or that limits and restricts the deployment or expansion of large commercial areas, we must do so by forgetting that protection and defence of small trade; we must restrict, we must limit it with legal reasons of territorial planning, or with environmental reasons, or with urbanistic reasons. And that is not what comes in this proposal for a law, because you are talking about retail trade, and we are back in the exit box of what the courts annulled, both in articles of the sectoral territorial plan and in various pronouncements and consultations that have been made to the courts, also to the European Union's Justice. Therefore, we believe that the goodness of this proposal of law, if it had one – and we believe it has one – is that it allows us to channel, orient this work of restriction and limitation through a law for large commercial areas, which allows us to channel it in the sense of the political dialogue that we can carry out. We have tried that political dialogue. I would like to thank the opposition groups for blocking the presentation of this bill in the House until the Government undertook to deliver a text, an articulated text, the wording of which was commissioned in November to Juan Ramón Fernández Torres – he is not just anyone, but a professor of administrative law, a prestigious and reputed urbanist – and, therefore, that articulated text, which arises because in the advance of amending the sectoral territorial plan there is the conjuncture that we are given to understand that, if we do not do so by law, if that modification of the sectoral territorial plan does not end up being a regulation by law, it could also be annulled in the courts, and therefore we would be faced with more legal uncertainty. Therefore, the issue is renewed by the Basque Government; the adviser, Iñaki Arriola, reports on this circumstance on two occasions: on the occasion of the presentation of the 2019 budgets and also following a reply to Mrs López de Ocariz, to an inquiry that formulates it. And, therefore, as I say, it is officially responsible for drafting an articulated text, so that, under the prism of maximum consensus, which also had that sectoral territorial plan, some of whose articles were annulled by judgment of the Supreme Court, we can achieve, in the same spirit of broad consensus, and taking into account the necessary, binding, impervious adaptability that the criteria of territorial planning and the environmental criteria were key elements for these limitations and these restrictions on the establishment or expansion of large commercial areas, which, of course, had to be reasoned in a legal way, reasoned with weight, with sufficiency, with solvency – and this is done through the data provided by the progress of the sectoral territorial plan – it is therefore understood that the articulated text, which, arriving in time and form on the part of the Basque Government to the opposition groups on 21 March of the same year, we understood that this text better protected the interests of this small trade, of that retail trade, which can be seen in danger, let us say, the activities of this large-sized area. Therefore, that is why we bet the Basque Socialists at the time and we wanted the opposition to understand our justifications. We were presented by Euskal Herria Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party with another text in which they included this material regulation that they bring us here today; they again included it in the outline of the articulated text that we had proposed to them. With this, we returned again to the beginning of a rather frustrating attempt, because we did not recognize the legal insecurities that this material regulation that has the proposal of law and the text that at the time you proposed to us, we do not recognize those legal insecurities, and therefore we are again in the disencounter. However, I do want to say and thank the government for its predisposition, first of all, because it would not be worth any law; neither the government nor the Basque Socialists – I say to you from now on – do we have any law to save what is the minority trade, or to restrict and lock up the large areas if we do not give the municipalities, whose electoral campaign starts today, but we have to tell them very clearly: if they do not have a law with maximum legal guarantees, they can see in the brete that all Basque citizenship, the Gipuzcoana, in particular, because it is also who has these large commercial areas today on the table of architects and city planners of the municipalities, we can see the Basque citizenship in the brete of having to pay very, very important pecuniary claims. We are not talking about a few euros; we are talking about many billions and millions of euros. This is no joke; here we are not out of irresponsibility; here we all owe a minimum obligation of responsibility as parliamentarians, which we have to shape and we have to pass a law with maximum legal guarantees. There are no gas experiments here; here we have to be all very aware, very, very aware of what our responsibility is. The Basque Socialists do not say that the articulated text presented by the Government is perhaps the best and most satisfactory. He's the best for us now that we have one. If, perhaps, in this process, in this area of technical dialogue that we have given ourselves, the agreement that we have reached to set up a committee, a technical working group as soon as this proposal for a law comes forward, trying to make those legal experts and urbanists understand what the model of trade the Basque society wants, understanding, moreover, what is the model that we share and that we agree at the time on the sectoral territorial plan and what are the articles that have been annulled, understanding all that, see if these legal experts urbanists, who also have the professional experience of seeing in the courts, can reach a majority consensus that combines the majority wills of what is parliamentaryism, in this case, of the Basque Parliament, of the groups that form the Basque Parliament. I hope that this is the case, I trust that this is the case, and I am sure that the text that the Government has presented on this occasion will not be the true reflection of that consensus text, but I am also increasingly convinced that it will have nothing to do with what is the proposed law that we bring to the consideration. And, at least, we will be sure that we have done everything possible to ensure that we have certain legal certainty and we can tell the municipalities, which have in their planning the legal obligation to assume the regulations that we make available to them, we can tell them that we have acted with full conscience and responsibility so that they do not have, or at least have, the minimum legal uncertainty if they have to deal with these issues in the courts. That is why – I repeat – I thank the Government for not issuing any opinion, at the moment, on this proposal for a law. I believe that it was a gesture that honoured him, in that he wanted to promote a framework for dialogue between the parliamentary groups. I also think it is to be thanked, Mr Arriola, that your department arrived in time and manner to have on March 20, 21 the text articulated from beginning to end, so that we could allow the political dialogue to play out to parliamentarians. And I also think it is important that we be able among all the groups to at least hope that the expert group can complete a work that politicians have come to where we have come from. It wasn't possible. We marked three red lines to the text presented to us by the opposition. They told us that they were not viable, that they did not understand the reasons we were presenting for them, and, if there is a chance, we will comment again, but we understand that it has not been possible to reach a policy where we can support this bill. It is true, today a path is being opened through the paper to amend, so that, as I say, first of all, the working group will put forward a serious and rigorous work, and hopefully with many, many legal guarantees. And, if that were not the case, because it is not feasible or because it is not feasible, what I would comment on is that the Basque Socialists will again present our text, the text that was also presented by the Basque Government. We will format it as an amendment, trying, through the appearances that took place in the paper, to show you – which I understand you will have an open mind – to make you understand and to make you see that, the greater the legal certainty, the better. We share the view that all parliamentary groups are a trading model, that trading model, which implies that there will be restrictions on the deployment of large areas on the outskirts of cities, of urban plots. But what we don't share is that we lock it to any possibility that a large surface will be installed on the periphery and even on the surfaces if it has more than 700 square meters. This goes against Community law, against state law and also against judgments which have already expressed the nullity of the sectoral territorial plan. I would like to say that we will abstain from seeing whether it is possible, through this technical group, to channel a text that is of broad consensus again, more than this proposal for a law can have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Uribe Houseer, Eurbe Abertarian, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Our position around the great jumps is clear, and it has been clear, too, for a long time. It's based on three major principles. On the one hand, we have always maintained the balance between the great stalls and the small shops or shops of the place, which, after all, are preserved by the small Esailles or by the shops of the place, and by the lives of our peoples and cities as we do by so much importance as we do by the shops of the Esquire. What we have proclaimed and defended the second principle in practice, both in theory and in our discourse, has been necessary to regulate the scheme of the planning of the great stalls; And I think the third principle belongs to the legal security. As it is natural and logical, it is an active attitude to protect, to defend, to proclaim, and to do so. In fact, it's been mentioned in this case, and you've mentioned the experience we've had in 2015 with the verdict that the Supreme Court released. These three principles, I must say, we understand the point today as a mere tramite, in order to enable us to have an empty tract, if possible, before the end of June or July and summer-part, whether we are able to accept that law which is demanded of us in this legislature. That's, in our opinion, the main goal. I also think that this goal is shared. That's why we fill up this tramite on account of the troubles of the street, and with this text. But I am of opinion that Mrs. Corcuera has made it clear to me, that in spite of all the things which she has said perfectly agreeing with me, this text, which, in fact, is placed to vote, has juridically prominent gaps, and that we do not treat it as a foundation to discuss it. To make that clear. And for the last few months, he kept his word. The other mentioned March, not only on March 21st, but a proposition of PTS, and next to it several legal and economic reports. I think we all agree that the text you're being introduced to is going to vote today, but it's much stronger. Maybe you don't, Mr. Casanova, but others do. Others do, others do. And I don't know if you're such a protagonism and that you're so worried about it. Yes, yes, yes, yes, Mr. Urizar. But to make that clear. It's much stronger. And, as Mrs. Corcuer has said, in ponciency, that will be our position. Looking for legal security, to keep the balance between departments and small shops, it seems to us the best text to recover. To make it clear. And, well, it's completely normal. But the text that I've been given to you has a special interest in the legal security. After all, Mme. d'A. d'A. d'A. d'A. d'A. d'A. Beno, hori esanda, guk nola enfokatzen dugu pontzian izango duguna eva eztabaida? Well, with a basis and a set of principles that I would like to keep in the session log, so that, in turn, it becomes very clear what our position is. It follows from the legal and judicial rulings that, first, any restriction on the establishment of large commercial establishments must be sufficiently justified in a rule of law. Well, I think we all agree on that. Secondly, the introduction of superficial restrictions on their implementation cannot be due solely to commercial and commercial reasons. I think we all agree on this too. And, third, these restrictions must observe the triple condition of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. Well, on these grounds, we have a number of clear principles. The first, that the establishment of limitations on the location and size of large commercial establishments is admissible; it is permissible provided that compelling reasons of general interest are invoked and accompanied by an analysis of their timeliness and proportionality, as well as supporting data. Secondly, the introduction of preventive measures is appropriate for the Thirdly, integration into an urban environment, the effects on the use of the road network and public transport and the variety of supply available are also lawful, appropriate and proportionate criteria for the purposes of spatial planning, environmental protection and consumer protection. The fourth principle, the preservation of the habitability of the urban centre, avoiding its emptying, does not imply that access to or the exercise of a service activity is subject to the individual application of an economic test or a demand on the market. Therefore, and summarily, the protection of the urban environment, safeguarding the habitability of the city centre and preventing the existence of vacant premises in the interest of good territorial planning, endowed with objective justification to the prohibition, to the prohibition of the implementation of certain retail activities in a specific geographical area located outside them, thus representing an imperative reason of general legitimate interest. Therefore, these are the principles on which we are going to work. These are the principles on which this Government has worked loyally and deeply and solidly. These are the principles behind the proposal made by this Government. And to attend to a minimum political spirit for the consensus, not for the imposition, Mr Casanova, of saying "let's see if we come to some kind of agreement", but, on the other hand, to close the doors, as has been your attitude in recent months. Change your attitude, if you want a consensus. Change. We want it for the benefit of our cities, our municipalities and the sector itself. I think we have bases, I think we have texts; if there is a minimum of spirit, I think we will succeed. And we will do so before the end of this session; that is, at most, in the last plenary session of June, on 27 June. Let us put ourselves to the task, in a spirit of agreement, consensus and common sense.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u37	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. We'll take the answers turn. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u38	Briefly, to point out some things. I'm not going to go into details; I don't think it's time to mess up, and here's a lot of stuff, there's been a lot of stuff. Look, this is not going to be the first time it is taken into consideration, that you are voting in favour of an initiative that is informed by the government without legal certainty. It wasn't going to be the first, it wasn't going to be the first. I mean, don't focus all your attention on this, because it's not an example of that. Therefore, it seems to me an argument that they have not taken into account for other initiatives. I'm just telling them as data, as data. Of course, from the popular group, we never come to this rostrum in order to propose irresponsible measures and to cause harm to Basque citizens and citizens. Not Basques, not Basques; none. We never arrived for that purpose. And that's not the point. Therefore, I do not know why they mention some aspects that nobody has mentioned and which, of course, are not in our heart. They talk about consensus and legal certainty. Look, the text you proposed cannot guarantee that you have 100% legal certainty. Today you can resort to everything. Another thing is how the appeal ends, but appeal, everything can be appealed. And of that we have several examples. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is more – and I will be gentle – a encroachment that you have real data on what can be. And surely, contrasted with different legal teams, each gives us a criterion. So, I think it's okay to be quoted, but I think that's not the crux of the matter. We're in a phase. I believe that the aspects where you have marked red lines have enough subjective and little objective, and therefore that subjectivity will have to be addressed, if possible. But, of course, I think that we are quite close and that you are focusing on some aspects that you yourselves know can be modulated and that we can all reach a medium term. I guess you're in that arrangement, too. And the government made a gesture because there was no other one left. We are in a period – I have told you quite clearly – we are at a time when the legislature, if it is fulfilled to the end, has the deadlines it has. There was no opportunity to introduce a new text, and we have introduced a text that we park because the Government asked us to do so, and I think we were quite respectful of what the Government was proposing and where we could go. I believe the disposition has been total. And what we want is for a text to come out with the greatest consensus in this House so that no one can question it a posteriori. I believe that the courts are ruling and are already laying many foundations, and I believe that it is becoming increasingly clear what the guidelines are and what they are giving as favorable and what they are giving as negative. And indeed, since this text was drafted today, there are things that have been progressing, but, of course, I believe that the willingness of the groups, we have not come here to do an opposition roll; we have tried to do constructive work and we continue in it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u39	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u40	Now, yes. Thank you, Madam President. Soon. What the provision shows is not, of course, coming to this rostrum to generate any insecurity or harm; that is to be made clear. We came to help solve a problem that has been parked for four years. That is what we want to do, and we want it to be done in this legislature. That's what we wouldn't forgive ourselves: that, having the chance, we wouldn't do it. That would be an injury to many Basque citizens and to part of Basque society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Well, let's see, Mrs Corcuera, you have cheated, and you have cheated because you had decided to intervene in the turn against, although you are going to abstain, and, at the regulatory level, normally, those who abstain intervene in the explanations of vote. So, what you can't come here to say is that..., we understand that what you're letting out is that the Basque Socialists are going to oppose giving oxygen to the little traders in Euskadi. We have given them every opportunity, Mrs Corcuera and Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, to join our initiative. It has been four months, where it has already been explained in certain ways, but there has been a series of meetings and work, so that you come to say now that the biggest problem you see on our initiative is legal guarantees and that there is no legal certainty. Doing nothing, that is what, really, does not provide legal certainty and what does not absolutely solve things. With regard to safety and security, the judgments to which you, Mrs Corcuera, referred are earlier than the last, those of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which does describe the concept of 'imperious reasons of general interest', which is referred to in certain requirements and covers the protection of the environment and the urban environment, including urban and rural planning. Therefore, you are lying judgments that are far more late than those that are at present. It is true that we are not going to agree on the question of what legal vision, what is the initiative that gives us greater security. Again, what is not going to provide us with security is to do nothing. And what happens is that, when the initiative is not ours, when the initiative is not led by the parties that support the Government, then it does not have sufficient legal guarantees. I believe that this is unfair; I believe that what is not possible is to appeal to the lack of responsibility, when what is joining us here is the absolute responsibility to bring this law out with as much consensus as possible and with all possible contributions. But we can't go out and say something that's not, because it's not law. You said it's no joke. Nor is it a joke not to be up to the times. Young people are telling us today: we are on the verge of a climate collapse; and putting in the balance euros or the planet, which is what sustains life and social and economic relations, I do not know if it is acting with conscience and responsibility. This proposal has been worked out by traders and associations of traders in the sector. We have no interest other than to support the local fabric. It should not be forgotten that there are other interests above, because, behind these large commercial centres, there are often purely urban operations, and the whole of large commercial centres in Euskadi are owned by large foreign multinational companies. And, of course, it must also be said that the municipalities, mostly governed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, pass on to those macro-projects, with which you seem to now disagree. We can't say one thing in one place and another in another. In short, we have already explained this: the amendment complies with all the conditions established by the European Union and is justified in the reasons of general interest, where there are judgments and case law that endorse them, and, in practice – it is understood – and, in addition, you are aware that the judgments to which you appeal are prior to what we are talking about. Therefore, in the same tone of construction in which we have worked these four months, which I understand is not in which we have intervened today in this plenary, really, is that there is a serious problem; we will work, no matter who has the initiative and who does not, because it turns out that the opposition parties had to present an initiative and waited...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u43	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u44	... and they have waited and have waited and will wait for the rest of the political forces to reach a consensus and to bring forward a law that we need to solve a problem with respect to the limitation and expansion of commercial spaces. I think this is what we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u46	Yeah. Well, I've already said on some other occasion, that there are some here who have a request that seems like a give; they come from the minority to ask for consensus and dialogue, and they put us little less than useless, presumptuous, proud, that we have to change the attitude. What are you coming here to make a note of us? Does it progress properly but needs to improve? Hey, please, a little serious. Do you know what the government service sheet is in relation to the PTS, the PTS and the previous one? Total and absolute incompetence, total and absolute inability to repair the rupture that, due to its previous negligence, existed in the system of regulation of the big malls. And don't tell us now that we don't know how to make a law or that we don't know how to give legal certainty to a law. There may indeed be a discrepancy over legal criteria, a legitimate discrepancy, because, as is often said, zenbat buru, hainbat aburu And you may disagree, and you may want to otherwise regulate the malls, but do not come to us from the prepotence saying that you know how to make laws and the others do not, because this law is very well studied, by very powerful legal teams, and takes into account the jurisprudence and the legislation in force, and it is absolutely rigorous. And of course it is possible for someone to take her to court, because all laws that affect important economic interests are usually brought to court by one lobby or another. If you regulate in favor of the taxi, Uber will take you to court, and if you regulate in favor of Uber, they will take you to taxi associations. But taking you to court does not mean that the courts will bring you down, and less a law with the rigor of this, because I listened to Mrs. Corcuera and, look, I know that she has worked on the subject and that she has read the law; if not, I would say that she has not read it. I know you've read it, but I've had to reread it again to see where were the reasons for promoting small business here, because there are compelling reasons for general interest, because it's been made by absolutely expert people in case law, who have studied until the last sentence, and claims have been made here, for example, to the absolutely rigorous PTS, also by our group and other groups, and here there are lawyers, and here there are architects, and here there are city planners, and here there are jurists. Another thing is that we can also disagree between experts – I do not deny that – and I am not going to question that, their right to have another legal perspective; but to underestimate and lower the technical quality of the things that others do, for we have not, of course. Eta hasi naiz Churchill aipatzen, and I will also finish with another phrase from Churchill. I'm going to leave the most effusive thanks, for not being a gafe, for when this is finally approved. But he said that of the battle of England, and there he uttered, in that context, another phrase, which is that of "Never so many owe so many to so few", dedicated to pilots of the air force. For, in this case, I also want to say that if we are here where we are, it is mainly thanks to the impulse of a group of traders, a merchants' association and their legal team, who have had the perseverance and the ability to get us all parties into flour, to get us in the right direction and to get this law started today. I repeat again, if we acted with guts, really, I am that here the process of dialogue would end, the law would be passed as it is, and it was over. But we are not acting with our guts; we are obliged to act with our heads, to act for the common good, to leave each of us their feelings a little apart and to be rational. And, from that rationality, I repeat that we are ready to dialogue, to the technical and legal improvements that other groups are willing to bring, of course, to reserve the right not to agree or not to accept them, but to ensure that we will listen to them and value them with the utmost seriousness. Because yesterday we disassembled, in quantitative terms, that of the clamp that some are trying to say, and we demonstrated that the general alliances go in another direction and that, which most coincides in socio-economic terms with the People's Party, precisely, it is the Government. But today too, in practical terms, we are dismantling this issue; we have adopted a law because it has been dialogued and because it has been negotiated, and because we have no packaging to approve it. Today, Euskal Herria Bildu, is taking a law against the Government's view, because he understands that politically it is. But we are not destroying, hindering or putting sticks on the Government wheel; we are remedying the shortcomings of a Government that is often not where it has to be. And it is the opposition that has to fulfil responsibilities that the Government should have resolved long ago.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u48	Yes, thank you, President. Firstly, Mrs García, I am speaking against because I am not in favour of this proposal for a law, and therefore I am in my right; otherwise, the President would have taken the floor. Secondly, it is not this parliamentarian who has really put the attitude of the Government on this issue on the threshold; it was you, Mrs García, who said and spoke of the passiveness and slowness in legislating from the Government, the deliberate inaction of the Basque Government, "we have had enough patience" and "it is a magnificent bill". Look, I to the merchant association or the federations, my utmost respect; nothing to say. As parliamentarians and parliamentarians, I demand to you all the responsibility you may have in this act. And I say this to you because, Mr Casanova, first of all, we are not passing any law; we are taking into consideration a proposal for a law, which initiates a path in a paper and which you, like us, know that this cannot be the proposal or the law that will end up in this Parliament. You know it as well as I do, and, if you don't know it and if you don't want to, because you've decided this is the way, anyway, some of us should talk to the guts. Look, the tongue with blisters to bite me, precisely to achieve the possibility of agreement and consensus. I was the one who made them the Government's proposal to try to speak with the presentation of an articulated text. You spoke of mistrust; you have always been with Damocles' sword of "let us present the proposition of law." And what did this humble parliamentarian say to you? What did he say to them? We have a problem of responsibility, because there are serious, powerful, rigorous legal reports that come to say that, if there are legal claims, because certain articles that have been annulled are being contravened, because there are judgments that are telling us that, in fact, if we go down the road to talking about retail trade we will have problems, if we are talking about commercial and commercial activity as something fundamental for us to establish limitations on the free establishment of large areas, we have to lose those. And not us; they will have to lose the municipalities, which, when they again exercise, after June 15, have their mayors already restored, they will be able to find a law that will make them much, much pupa, because there will be millionaire economic claims; no longer of thousands of euros; millionaires. You know that there are many million euro claims for loss of profits in the Basque Government today. You know that you are important operators, that is not that you are going to take us to court. Obviously, there is no 100 % legal certainty, but we know that they will appeal. What are we going with? What are we going with? With a text that we know is wrong, from the beginning, from the title? Or are we going with something more serious, that we really try to concentrate what are the maximum legal certainty and certainties, taking into account the judgments, the weights of professionals who are working on urban planning and the law, who know perfectly well what European legislation is, the regulation that is also in the case law, which the Supreme Court is drawing up? Do we want that, or don't we? Do we want that, or don't we? Well, then, the Socialists do. That is why I made them the proposal a week ago to try to get a technical committee to concentrate, to agree on a proposal for an articulated text that would eliminate our doubts as much as possible. That does not mean that we despise the lawyers who have worked on the proposal for a law, nor does it mean that we go against the federations of merchants; it means that, because we want the retail trade to have a future, we cannot leave in the gutter separate from the municipalities, with a law that we know from the beginning that will do them much harm and that, in the end, the pagans will be the Basque citizenship. We will be the citizens of Donostia-San Sebastián, we will be the citizenship of Eibar, it will be the citizenship of Irun, it will be the citizenship of Gipuzkoa and, ultimately, the Basque citizenship who, through our taxes, will have to pay these claims. And that's going to be yes or yes. We can temper it, we can minimize it, or we can leave it to the free will of what happens in the courts. And we understand, as Mr Casanova said in an article leading the opposition and this subject of the bill, that it is best to reach a unanimous agreement and adopt a law that limits the implementation of large areas in an appropriate way. That's where we're at. In those, Mr Casanova, you know that you will find me, in reaching an agreement, but a responsible agreement with maximum legal certainty. I said it from the first day that I met with all of you and I will keep saying it to the end in this rostrum. I hope that the next law that we bring in, the law that is to pass, will really be for those gentlemen to have a future and for the municipalities not to be caught up in bankruptcy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Well, it wasn't my intention to allude to the tweezers, Mr. Casanova, but, well, since you said it... The problem is not that the PNV parliamentary group can coincide with you or can coincide with the People's Party or Podemos. The problem and the question here of the clamp is that it is you and the People's Party who agree, after they say what they say, and qualify themselves as qualified. And I'm not going to bring, Mrs. Iriarte, up here, for example, Mr. Alonso's statements, with all due respect, after the last episode-incident that happened here. Well, that's the clamp, from positions so far away – yes, now come, yes, Mrs. Ubera; it's not your turn – so far away and after saying what they say. But, well, I, let's see, so much to name Churchill, I don't know if we'll soon see him dressed in chaqué, bonbon and a briefcase on the way to London, trying to replace Mrs. May at the head of the Conservative Party. Because so much quoting and reading Churchill's biographies and his quotes, right, Mrs. Ubera? Well, in the end, it looks like he's gonna get hit. Indeed, I am grateful because in my first speech I had not heard that provision, I had not heard that provision to negotiate, to dialogue and to receive proposals. I hadn't heard it, and it seems to me that, in the end, it's a bit of "yes, let's go there," but, look, shut the door. Mrs. Corcuera, I think you've described it quite well. What we are saying is that the Government has not only fulfilled its word in terms of timetable with regard to the opposition; it has submitted the reports, which, precisely, has submitted the reports. I mean, he not only presented an articulated text, but, well, he can understand it because he may have more possibilities, but he did. We have not seen any kind of report accompanying the bill they have submitted. And some legal arguments have been asked. Let's see if in the presentation procedure – yes, Mrs Ubera – to see if in the presentation procedure a series of reports is possible, simply to contrast and analyze, because, in the end, it will be the word of one against another. But, well, the Government, at least, has fulfilled its word, has done its duties and has a series of reports accompanying its articulated text. That gives us security, and I think the sector too. Then, in pure reciprocity and just reciprocity we ask, in the end, the same thing. We also reiterate – and I believe that Mrs Corcuera has said this in her two speeches – that I think it would be important, because, of course, 100% of the people here do not exist at all, but that experts, jurists, city planners meet and see if they can resolve these three issues, which are, let us say, the Gordian knot of the differences that we maintain, and nothing else. And I reiterate our will that this law sees the light, at most, the last full of the month of June, for which it has to present some schedule, some retrotraining Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u51	So the bill has been taken into consideration. Third point in theme list: "Pull up the proposition as a parlamentary group, to which several pension-women who live in low pensions may ensure their incomes as a right to an individual income. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The lady of the Kortha, the representative of the EH Group, has the intention of introducing and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u52	Thank you, ladies and congressmen. Good morning, everyone. It is a year since the pensioners of euscals began to fill the streets with their proclamations for pensions and worthy lives, and besides, the pulse of worthy pensions remains. With these transitions the older have shown their strength and their capacity for fighting, and their ability to agree above differences. But at the same time the conditions of life of many pensioners have been very manifest. All the shame of the pensioning system in the Spanish state has revealed to him the illusion of pensioners, and it is quite clear that the state pension system does not guarantee a decent life. In what has been said so much about the patience of the Pentium system, there have been too few words about the endurance of life. The Basque Country has a clear position around the subject; as before these mutations had begun, the Basque Country has always agreed to the appeal of a public pension system, which Collect will guarantee worthy lives. As appears and is known, we have a clear political choice for the public firming system of pensioners, which can guarantee worthy lives, and we are engaged in it, both in Madrid and here. It is well known that Esscal is a republic of ours, and is a community of those who guard and protect the rest of the Basque Republic. As the republic is founded on very small and great resolutions, which are made daily for guard and protection, she has made a constant commitment to the pensioners of euscals, and tried to continue our party without interruption, in order to improve the conditions of life of the pensioners, and to articulate them politically. There are the initiatives to perform our own system, the minimum pension proposal of $180 euros, a campaign that can guarantee incomes to those who receive low pensions, an income of income information, a minimum salary of 1,200 euros, the initiative to cancel the forms of work. This commitment also had its reflection on the budget business, and the negotiation of rent to guarantee incomes. This Saturday, Euskal Herria Bildu will re-engage, and will accompany them again, but, beyond promises, we want to reiterate our commitments to try to articulate these demands and to bring firm proposals, concrete proposals to improve the living conditions of older people and pensioners. And it is precisely in that continuing commitment that we have with the pensioners that we have to place the proposal that we are bringing to the debate today. The proposal principally looks upon those women who never make trial of them, who have laboured at ten o'clock, without being paid for life, and who are the lowest pensions, and suffer the greatest degree of preparation. A woman and a pensioner, that is the character of many persons who occupy the purse of those who are in the state of exile and poverty. I think it was one of the greatest achievements of pensioners and women's pensioners. It is evident that the most important consequences of our social organisation, and especially of the social order of care, are in the condition of pensioners. It is also evident, that the state's pensioning system is unjust to women. And it was yesterday that we had a court-martial of the European Union, which is just the question of sexual exclusion. In addition, cuts and reforms in the pension system have significantly affected women. We know the data and they're brutal. 133,000 women pensioners compared to 223,000; 1,568 euros average pension for a man, 907 for a woman –661 euros difference. They are the ones who receive the lowest pensions. 73% of the women who have pensions receive a pension below 1,000 euros. Only 29% of these men are pensioners. And as far as we go up at age, that crack opens. 45% of the pensioned women get a widowing pension, and their average is $7885. And under the poverty threshold is located 30 to 35 percent of pensioners. Most women, even in this case, are pensioned 25% of the benefits to ensure incomes. In them too, two out of three, women. Data reflecting the reality of thousands of women, working in family businesses, women who have developed their jobs in sectors where men were discharged, where women had no access to quality employment sectors; women who had entered and left the labour market to care for, and those who had to leave work to get married; women who had, in many cases, been expelled from the paid market, condemned to care, as we once said, for a conception of what their obligations were; women who, moreover, have never been compensated for their sentences to care, and who are now condemned to poverty and precariousness. I think we ought to be careful about these facts, and use all the tools we have in our hands to correct them. It is up to repair and compensate these women who have sustained life, who sustain life. It is about subverting priorities, establishing new balances and putting people, these women in particular, at the centre of public policy, in line with an agreement that this Parliament unanimously adopted on 18 October, an agreement that we reached with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, supported by Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party. And this initiative that we are bringing today is precisely to move forward, to take a first step in that specific compensation plan that we agree to put in place. The conditions which will enable the project of old age, happiness, and freedom are now established, may be a step in which the action which we have set before us today may be a step. We are clear that the answer to such circumstances will not come from Madrid, and that we must make use of all the instruments we have in our power in this way. And in that case the instrument is very interesting for us to support the incomes, the potential instrument, and entirely in our power. A powerful tool that is in our hands, but that presents a series of deficits from the gender point of view, and that also generates inequalities that we consider to be essential to correct. The right of incomes, which are essentially individual, becomes in practice the right of each other's share, by means of principle and definition, to ensure the income of incomes in the process of taxation. The individual nature of the revenues to ensure incomes is blurred by the definition of the community which is established for the use of the rent's right. This planning, which is remarkable, gives a great deal of trouble to many men and women who are in need, and in the units of intercourse it stabilizes and increases the economic dependence which women have for men, and this has a special influence on women living in very low pensions. The individualization of the right is vital in the case of women, and especially in order to improve the living conditions of those who, having devoted themselves to care, are living on very low pensions or without pensions. And, above all, it is a very useful tool to compensate for that situation, that gap that we have right now with pensions. Sonia Carrasco, professor of the Department of Applied Economy of the UPV and author of a study on the reality of women in a situation or risk of social exclusion in the Basque Autonomous Community, who has also studied and analyzed in depth our system of benefits from a gender perspective, among its recommendations, recommended precisely the individualization of the right, in order to address this difficulty that in the field of gender has income guarantee income. Though the profiter of the revenue has a woman's face, as is the case with many other things, the whole system depends on the case of men. Thus, in practice, the principle of the equality of choice is questionable in the case of women. In order to ensure the incomes of incomes, the most important effects of social care, and those differences between productive labour and productive labour, remain apparent in the condition of pensioned women. The situation of those women who are never judged is particularly serious in these cases, who have, as I have said before, the greatest degree of pre-eminency, when they have laboured in the temples without raising their lives and without receiving their wages. And besides, many of them remain outside the protection of their rent to ensure their incomes. In short, after they have been condemned to the care-in-law, thousands of women are condemned to economical dependence, and, in front of them, the income of incomes is a guarantee of the rents, not only to correct them, but to stabilize and increase them. And it is precisely to put an end to this type of misadjustment, this type of gender injustice and these dysfunctions that Euskal Herria Bildu considers urgent to initiate a process to make use of income-guarantee income law as an individual right, to improve, inter alia, the living conditions of women pensioners with lower pensions. And this is precisely what we demand by the law in this other proposition: to ensure the right of rent, in order to employ the right of individual natures, to set up a process, if possible, and if possible together. A process that would begin with an in-depth study of the situations of vulnerability that can occur in the units of coexistence of income-guarantee beneficiaries, because it is true and we have to recognize that this is a very complex issue, in which those situations of vulnerability that women can have in general would be specifically analyzed, but especially those that have been dedicated to care and are now in situations of greater precariousness; also the situations that occur in those units of coexistence contemplated as exceptional. In addition, a study would look for ways to put an end to these situations of economic dependence on their partners who are living in vulnerable situations with lower pensions. A process that would continue with the submission of a proposal to make the legal changes that this would require and, finally, establish the corresponding financial envelope. But it seems that this initiative is not going to take place this time either. The groups that support the Government are returning with an amendment that could well carry that stamp of concern and trust, which Mr Casanova said the other day, that of requestus et esperas The groups which support the government in general are generally concerned with the difficult situation of men who have the greatest convenience in life, and they take upon themselves the firmest commitment to apply their present laws to the improvement and improvement of the laws, but not to determine what they are about. And I think that the commitments made in this state and in this legislature require more. The situation of these women is serious. We all agreed that it was an injustice to correct. We said it was a reality that we had to experience, and so we agreed. We all three signed it, and we also took refuge with the rest of the teams, and I should say that it must be carried out in particular things, and this may be a particular thing of them. We don't know exactly what your proposal is, what it is to make this compensation in your imaginations, or the proposals that will be in your suggestions, because they are not yet present. We've put a specific proposition on the table, but we don't have a proposition about it. The proposition of reforming the revenues in this sense is well known, and the state we make here does not regard them; nor does this proposition, which we make use of here in the case of the genus, turn the wrongs and disaffections we present here. And knowing that these revenues are the most important consequences of the social organization of care in the revenues of the revenue, and that, when it is established, it is the serious condition of those women who live with the lowest pensions, and knowing that these conditions are the case, I do not know whether it does not seem worth it to you to attempt it. We've put this plan on the table, both on the budgets, and on the rent to guarantee the incomes, even in this negotiation; but it's true, as now, that we've proposed to set up a process of production, but, like now, our suggestions have been turned back as before, without offering an alternative or proposition. Mrs Corcuera referred earlier to agreements or responsible proposals; I do not know whether this matter requires any kind of responsible proposal in this regard. We meet with a wall in this attempt to value the conditions of life of pensioners. We see a government fortified in positions, which presents its engagement, but leaves it not to be determined, or to another; and thus it is hard for you to commit it in any particular matter whatsoever. For us, these are serious situations, which must be corrected and observed. We won't wait, we'll continue our work without interruption, just like we've been through. We will continue to look for realism, care, and strictness, and we shall continue to seek, in that way, for our inspiration is not poverty; it is our inspiration to preserve and protect the members of our society, to provide worthy conditions of life, and to provide worthy pensions, and, above all, our whole commitment will be the pensioners and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u54	Yes, thank you very much, President. We discussed an initiative by the EH Bildu group on the exercise as an individual income guarantee income right by women pensioners living on low pensions. And, sincerely, Mrs Kortajarena, I am surprised by this initiative. We now have a good income guarantee system, the best of all the autonomous communities, which emerged as a result of a process of processing a law within our Basque Parliament and which has a broad consensus, and we must all ensure that the income guarantee system is stable and, at the same time, sustainable over time. Act No. 18/2008 of 23 December 2008 on income security and social inclusion regulates two key elements in access to the exercise of the right: on the one hand, the limitation of what under this Act must be understood as housing or accommodation, and, on the other, the unit of coexistence. The unit of coexistence is logically one of the essential components of the model, insofar as its definition determines the degree of coverage of each of the benefits. Its new delimitation in 2008 was intended to respond to particular situations that had caused significant difficulties during the implementation of the previous legislation. And it did so through two complementary innovation elements: on the one hand, it proposed a change that represented a clear advance towards the universalization of the model, consisting essentially in considering cohabitation units for persons with contributory and non-contributory pensions, together with those who depended on them economically; and, on the other, it was proposed to establish elements that would enable access to benefits to be controlled by persons who seemed to comply formally with the requirements for the creation of a cohabitation unit without actually meeting them. Well, this initiative aims to load the system within it and proposes to rely on a strictly individual right, without even assessing the consequences of such a change, eliminating the concept of unity of coexistence. And we cannot try to change the whole regulated system into a law, worked, as I said, in a broad consensus if it is not to improve it as a whole. In this line, a draft bill for income guarantee and social inclusion was initiated by the Basque Government. In June 2018 it was considered by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group that, in order to deal with it more expeditiously and its approval could be finalized before the end of 2018, it was presented to this Parliament as a proposal for a law. In this way, efforts have been made to reach consensus with the various parliamentary groups over the past year, and this has not been possible. Within this reform project, there were significant changes, such as differentiating income security income from income security income of pensioners, or collecting supplements to be paid that increase the amount of income security income, distinguishing within these cohabitation units from the number of adults and children in the cohabitation unit, if there were any members in the unit who had disabilities or were victims of gender-based violence, among others. It established important improvements that avoided exclusions that are currently being made with second homes and that are in many cases detrimental to the citizens of this Basque Autonomous Community. It is curious that the proposing group of this initiative did not want to go further in order to reach agreement on this reform, thus delaying the process, extending it over time, to the detriment, in our opinion, of all citizens, especially those most in need, those most vulnerable to the impact of poverty and social exclusion. But today he comes here and proposes to modify the entire system of income guarantee, not by a law resulting from the consensus of this House, not by a non-law proposal. My group, the Basque Socialists, cannot agree with this approach. He also said that a study would be carried out within three months to change income security income to an individual right, so that it would enter into force by 1 July 2019 and that, to that end, all the necessary proposals for legal amendments would be brought forward first; that is, all this was proposed in three months. And I wonder, do you really think this is serious? Do you think that the entire income guarantee system can be so frivolously changed, a system that is considered the best in Spain and one of the best in Europe, in this way? One of the reasons the proponent group argued for not agreeing to the text of the proposed Income Guarantee Act and for inclusion was that, as it had been submitted through this channel, the reports to which the proponent group attached great importance were lacking and that they should have been accompanied in the event that they had been dealt with through the draft law by the Government. I ask you now: is your proposal, which you want and which seeks to change the income guarantee system without any debate in this House, accompanied by some kind of report? I reply to you: you do not have them, but you cannot try to change, in our view, a system of income guarantee in the Socialist Group: today I propose to change a collective; tomorrow I propose to change another collective; today we have units of coexistence; tomorrow I want them to apply for some individual rights, for other things. Well, this can't be done this way. The income guarantee system must try to change to improve it, never to make it worse, and of course it must always be studied as a whole, which is the only thing that guarantees the equal treatment of all citizens who meet the requirements for the exercise of that subjective right recognized in our current legislation. That is why we have not reached any compromise amendments with the proposing group, because we do not agree at all with the change proposed within it, which, far from improving, worsens the income guarantee system, and which you have presented without any report, study, consensus or anything. They have no idea what impact such a change would have on the system. You propose this, and that the Government, within three months, carry out the necessary studies, present or propose the necessary reforms, and that is enough. Well, no, Mrs. Kortajarena. My group, the Basque Socialists, is responsible for the state and we are ready to work to give stability to the income guarantee system, to work to improve the income guarantee system in whatever it takes. But you will never find us supporting measures that can destabilize the system, which lack all kinds of support and technical support. That is why we will support our amendment as a whole, the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. The rest of the groups in the House have not tabled amendments in their entirety. I hope that the rest of the groups have not tabled this amendment in its entirety because they do not agree with the initiative put forward. We wouldn't understand another approach. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u55	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja's, good afternoon. I'd insist on some major ideas as members of you. You've been talking about the boarding-schools over and over and over again and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over, you've been told that it's not fair to cooperate with a pension policy, we won't encourage that. Pental policies must be done where there is a pension's jurisdiction, and we must continue on the way to improve subsidies. First of all, I shall recapitulate what the legislative party and the Socialist party in the whole correction which we have set before each other; our firm engagement in this country to improve the welfare of the men who are in the most weak condition, and to do all the changes necessary to it. But don't confuse it: the pensioning system is one thing, pension politics are one thing, and politics help another. You mix both over and over. As for the women, you have proposed your discussion, and you have mentioned the arrangement of the pensioners, and you have mentioned the arrangement of the Cortha, which is here in the legislature, on the 18th of October. In this arrangement it was asked to take a thorough examination in a year's time, to make a thorough examination of the women's situation all this year. And after that exam for the whole year, based on it, we'd ask if you'd bring me a piece of perfect plan to deal with the situation of these women. And what happens is that you, EH Collect, for email interest, bring this initiative here. He has no legs or tails. I'm pies I'm a cabeza. If we followed the Kronogram, it's not reasonable. If we ask for an investigation, let's have an investigation. All of us together, like you said, is an investigation that you all agreed to in this Chamber to make a analysis, and, based on it, if we ask him to do an integral plan, how the hell could be given another proposal like this today? It won't be so urgent as to be introduced in January. You've had eight plenos since February to introduce them. You didn't introduce it, and you've just introduced it today, when an election campaign begins and on Saturday there's a pensioning march, not because it's urgent because it's a priority for you, but because you've got that interest. But the initiative you plan is not in the least one; it is not, as you say, an income to support the revenues, it has never been an individual system, but it has taken into account the conviction units and the family. And you plan to make another investigation. You know, it looks like you have to be doing some research on one side, some other research, which has no order, no seriousness at all when you're working on it. And in your action, at the second point, it is determined what will be the consequence: that it must be individual. Now this is contrary to the principles of the law, and the revenues of the revenue are contrary to the purposes of the revenue, as you know. As you know, family or seizure units are considered. And this state would lead us to situations which had no logic; for example, in a convent unit, a child rich and his mother had a low pension, and there a rent to secure incomes. And this has no meaning, for the same name says: it is an income to ensure the revenues; it is a measure to enter where the revenue is insufficient. That, in the form. And even in form it has no meaning at all. Because, you know, if the initiative you plan came forward, it would be necessary to change the law. So the question is: Why have we argued before this today a bill of law-proposs, which your party brought with them the other members of the legislature? Why do you propose another legal proposition, to make a change of law, when we, members of the legislature, make a dispute, and when we have this right, to make alterations of law when we have it? You know the law can't change the law. Why didn't you bring the law proposition? Because you know he may not leave. And, on the other hand, I would tell you that there is already here, as Mrs. Sánchez has told you, a legal proposition, and that we may discuss and discuss this legal proposition, and there you may be able to present the amendment or corrections of all the groups, and we would discuss what it is to be done. But the design that lies behind this is not at all to attain what is in it, postrealeous. And, following the Kronogram, it's impossible, it's impossible. At the first point, I'm asking if he comes out, he can do a test for three months. Today is the 9th of May, and that analysis would be for August 9th. Then it is required, on another point, that, based on this analysis, he proposes the changes of laws. You'll know how long it would take. So how far would we be from August 9th? And then you come here, but next you say that this should be put on the 1st of July this year. Is this a very serious initiative in this legislature? No. He doesn't have any seriousness. He doesn't have any seriousness. If it were admitted, it would be allowed to observe another proposition, which would be impossible to fulfil. And then you've had it put out... It's all you're engaged to, but that's all. What do you do? Now, as has been said before, there are some clear propositions in the proposition brought here by the Easiers of Parliaments, and by the Socialist Party, to change this law; and propositions of improvement in the state and conditions of pensioners in units that have low pensions, and have no income. Let's take the road and discuss it. And what was your answer? Give us the way and let's discuss it. Another suggestion that's been made by Amazing. one, in the Discretion of the Law of the Past. TWHY: The chief physician is here to improve the state of pensioners with the low incomes he made. In certain years the proposals would be made; in all, it would be a proposition of 430,000 dollars to maintain the incomes in order to improve the state of those who charge the rent. What's your answer? Not again. There would be two ways, if the law had been admitted after the discussion between us in 2018, to improve the welfare of these people. If the issues had been approved, even if they didn't get everything, at least a few steps... This fear of yours, in order to attain really profound consent in the social world, would be overrated today by certain budgets, and many low pensions would be in a better condition this year. And your answer was not again, nor bring this proposition with legs and tails to dispute, because today a election campaign begins, and on Saturday there is a demonstration. But people in this country clearly see what interest lies behind each action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. Well, the object of this proposition, according to what Mrs. Kotja has put in her text, and according to what has been said here, seems to imply that the income is an individual right of rent, but we believe it is the real end of this proposition to make a difference, to change the present calculation. And for that purpose, I shall quote some articles that have been made. I think it's convenient to know what these articles say. Article 8 of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, which, as you all know, has been in force since 2008, and some of its provisions were amended in 2011. Recipient and perceptor holders. Right-wing people. Article 8 of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act states that persons entitled to financial benefits are those on behalf of whom the right to receive benefits is being processed and granted. Recipients, persons who are part of the cohabitation unit. And persons who receive, on a general basis, persons who receive the financial benefits of law, persons who hold them, with exceptions that are established on a statutory basis. Article 9, as you all know, refers to unity of coexistence. Article 12 defines income security income as a subjective right. The GIR is defined as a subjective right for all persons who meet the specifically regulated requirements for access to the benefit in the form that results from its application. In other words, income security income, because it was the will of the legislator, was constituted as a subjective right, and we all know that, when a right is subjective, one has such a right whenever a number of requirements are met. And it is also stated in the same article, in article 16, rather, who are holders of the right, meeting those requirements that are legally established, such as establishing a living together before, having a prior registration and an effective residence, not having sufficient resources and also being over 23 years old, except for some exceptions which are also legally established. Therefore, we are faced with a subjective right. I was going to say that we are facing an individual right. Another issue, which I believe is the objective of the initiative put forward by the proposing group, and which Mrs Kortajarena has presented here, is how the calculation of that right is to be made, which is done in relation to the members of the coexistence unit, and, now, through this initiative, what is intended is that this calculation should take into account each member of the coexistence unit and therefore recognize a right with each member of the coexistence unit, which is a different issue. But subjective law is there, and subjective law belongs to those, as I said, who meet the requirements. I think it would be convenient here... Right now, there's a proposition on the table. It is true that it is not a law project, that it is a legal proposition introduced by parties, and it is not the same thing. As we pointed out at his moment, we think it would be better for the Government to fulfil its engagement, and to bring a bill of laws into the parliament, which was generally mentioned in the treaty signed between the government, the Socialist Party and the Eastic Party. that a bill of law would be sent to the legislature. I think it would be more appropriate, and given that there is a proposal for a law put forward by the groups supporting the Government, to make these changes in the corresponding procedure. It is true that, today, we do not have any existing legislation that has been amended during this parliamentary term. This group has repeatedly highlighted the need for reforms: the reform of income-guarantee income regulations, the social aid system and the reform of Lanbide as irrevocable objectives. But I will say more: this has not been an objective of this group, and you all know it well, because I have bored you with initiatives, and many of them were initiatives that were repeated over time and during the sessions, because we understood that the Government was not making any progress on this issue at all. But he said that it was not an undertaking of this Parliament and this group this legislature, but that the last legislature has already proposed concrete changes to the existing legislation that were absolutely necessary and that, in principle, the Government, in the last legislature, denied, and that, then, I believe, in the light of the evidence of the facts and the data, it had no choice but to acknowledge that changes were necessary in both areas. So much so that, in this legislature, within the main challenges in the department and in the social policies of the Government, these two challenges have been: the reform of Lanbide and the reform of income guarantee income. We want to regret once again that, after almost three years of the legislature, there is no text, we do not have that amendment already approved in this House. It is true that, as has been said here, it was presented by the groups supporting the Government on 24 April last year. In the April of the preceding year, a proposition was introduced, a legal proposition, and the Jest Party, and the Socialist Party, presented itself in a special manner, because that day, in the morning, we all learned in the press that a proposition was presented, and that it was not the government which brought the bill of law into the legislature. And then it is true that even that that day Poppular party corrected the chief physician a certain interpelation, and when the chief physician answered in this interpelation, he explained them, and we think that this was a very inadequate one, and so we spoke of it. That is why we are talking about non-compliance with the Government's commitments in relation to the commitments made. As I said, there was a commitment in the legislative calendar to forward this project in the first quarter of 2018. It is true that, then, in an initiative, in a compromise amendment signed on a People's Group initiative, that deadline was reduced to three months. We understand and reiterate that there has been a abandonment of the responsibility of this Government, because, then, that responsibility has been transferred to the groups, which submitted this bill, and we also understand, as we said at the time, that the instrument was absolutely inadequate. Obviously, a draft law is accompanied by a number of mandatory reports, which report on a number of issues – the issue of economic valuation, economic impact, another number of issues, the Cojua report – which are quite relevant to the processing of any law. Obviously, we understand that the necessary consensus had not been reached to deal with that initiative; that, moreover, it was not appropriate in either form or content. It was, in our view, unambitious, confusing, imprecise and insufficient. In view of the future, I believe that it is the responsibility of the Government to try to unravel these issues, and I hope that it will do so, because we understand from the People's Group that, obviously, the management of social aid is clearly better, and, on the other hand, that Lanbide is not really entrusted with the employability objectives it has allocated in its own legislation and is a specific instrument at the service of Basque citizens, and, unfortunately, it is not working. Pero, vuelvo an insistir, and I conclude, Madam President, that we do not agree with the proposal proposed, for we believe that he does not agree with what he says, and I believe that the time is not convenient. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u60	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief officers, good days to all. It is not a mystery that in our parliamentary group, in Elkarrekin Podemos, we are betting on an unconditional basic income horizon and that we are also very critical of the current income guarantee income. The expert people say that the path of conditionality is never a step before unconditionality, and the truth is that it is a super-interesting topic, which I would give for a monograph, but nobody worries, that I am not proposing one. What I do know is that, whether or not it is the path we have chosen, my favorite path, the paths are made to walk, as Machado said in his day: "When you walk you make the way, and when you look back, you see the path that you will never tread again." By the way, I've reviewed what I've done in the parliament. We've done a lot of work. With the long list of enterprises introduced by the Podemos together, we may assert that the rent is among our priorities. We have also made discreet work, which is not seen in statistics, and which is always intended to get a reform for better. On that path, as I said, it is important to look back and know what has happened in this time. December 2016: we launched this brand-new legislature at the hands of the People's Party, which wanted to make clear its position on this citizen's right, a position that we see decaffeinated today, but which is reduced to cuts and criminalization. An agreement is reached between four of the five forces of this house for a consensus reform. In the meantime, different things are happening. We agree, at the proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, a method to address that reform of Lanbide, an issue that we continue to expect and that is already a year and five months late. Also on the proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, we are committed to changing issues in Etxebide to provide coherence to housing and income guarantee policies. We're still waiting. A GNP was approved for publication of the criteria document, also on the proposal of our group. And just by chance, in the run-up to an inquiry to the Sailburu to verify the fulfillment of that commitment, we find the document published with night and lightness; that is, a decafeinated document of criteria, which does not serve, because in Lanbide they continue to apply things that are not explained anywhere. It was also agreed to bring a document reforming the GIR; a little late, but that did. It was agreed that this document would be consensual and open to input, and we find that, after time, not one of the issues raised in each and every one of the appearances that took place during 2018. It was also agreed that the Government would bring a preliminary draft law to this House and that we would discuss this citizens' right outside the focus of electoralism. And we find that, despite the fact that the previous study we all paid for and did PricewaterhouseCoopers, it is presented by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. In June last year, we had to address that debate on a proposal that did not meet one of the conditions set out in the various agreements. Not one. A proposal put forward by the parties and not by the Government; a proposal that implies, say what they say, an unprecedented cut in a right recognized in Euskadi; a proposal that is deeply stigmatizing and criminalizing poverty and impoverished people; a proposal that could have been perfectly presented by the People's Party, but that does not even like it; a proposal that has been born unsuccessful and that today is blocking a crucial issue in this Parliament. Totally, we're in May 2019 and we're still the same as in December 2016, but with a lot of folders in our offices and, above all, with a lot of fear of people, who don't know what's going to happen, because they hear drum clippings, but they don't finish knowing when or where they're going to get them. And today we are discussing this initiative. An initiative consistent with Bildu's political strategy and, in any case, consistent with Elkarrekin's will We can in the need to expand and broaden the right to income guarantee. Unfortunately, this isn't going anywhere either, because, where some say Diego, others say apples bring me. And, honestly, then, it seems to me a shame, but above all, it causes me a great deal of sadness. Because, if anyone listens to this relationship of facts, what are you going to think? No less than two and a half years of playing games with people, who have been failing to comply with agreements that have been reached with great effort in this Parliament, which the political class only agrees on for certain things. The Government, that is to say, the Jestric Party of the Eucans, has placed two necessary reforms in a precarious state, after having once again revealed the inability of conversation. Both members of the legislature and the unions and the lack of ability to speak to social agents and make agreements is obvious to everyone. And it just doesn't make sense. It makes no sense that, being assumed and shared by all political groups that there is a system responsible last to guarantee nothing less than the right of Basque citizens to have minimum incomes, it does not work; it makes no sense that, assuming all that does not work, there is no remedy. Because, if you do not realize, this 'doesn't work' means a constant and systematic violation of people's rights: unprotected people in poverty, unprotected children whose families today do not have enough income to meet their needs, and violated the rights of older people and pensioners. It supposes, for example, that, as of November 2018, perceptor persons would have dropped, yes, in 10,000 people since Borja Belandia assumed the helm of Lanbide, under the direction of Mrs Artolazabal. They've come down, yes, but do we know how? It turns out Lanbide doesn't record whether they've dropped because they've taken up a job or not. What we do know is that every month, on average, 450 people with families in which there are girls and boys in charge lose the benefit. We know that, of the thousands of GIRs that have been suspended, no less than 11,900 have been suspended for people who continue to have less income than we consider minimal to cope with a dignified life. And nothing. They're not putting any solutions in place. They're still torpedoing anyone we introduce to others. Ladies and gentlemen of the parties that support the government, you are torpedoing solutions that with the RGI help people, and you are doing so because it gives the feeling that you put forward the interests of the party, of the government, I don't know, but, of course, not those of the citizens, and that seems ugly to us. I return to the initiative that is being debated today. Individualization of the benefit? Yeah, definitely. On the part of Elkarrekin Podemos, they have our support and our complicity, because, since we presented ourselves to the elections that brought us here, we defend that possibility, and we are consistent. In our program of 2016, the individual income nature of the revenue which we already maintained to support our income for the public, and we continue to bet on it. This equipment can be a step forward. Firstly, because women are the main losers in the system of living units, and eliminating them by raising the RGI, a right of the people and not of the family, it would help that equality, and in particular, it would help to change the face of a pensioner woman who has poverty in Euskadi; but also because it would be an adequate and proportionate solution to solve much of the problems that Lanbide has today to calculate the RGI in relation to living units; and because, moreover – I have to say – it is just the opposite of the absurd proposal proposed by the PNV and the PSE, which say that those living in a house have to share their income and collect all together, even though they do not share the salt of meals. Also because it is a reality in Euskadi that the price of housing prevents many families in precarious situations or poverty from accessing a home alone. Even if they don't want to see him, that happens. And because it is a reality that poverty goes through different people in different ways, and it is essential to care individually for all of them, as our laws and plans say. But, above all, because this is a subjective right of people in Euskadi: to have sufficient income. And, through individualization, we would take a giant step towards that goal, because, today, we have a benefit that does not bring people out of poverty. For as much as I repeat it, Mrs Gorospe, it is not an aid; it is a right. And that can't be lost from the focus. Having said that, we can have differences and coincidences. We can have differences in whether or not the way to get there by doing individualization in a preferential or priority way with people with dependency, disability, older people, foresight of women pensioners, is the way we would choose. But what we have no doubt is that the study asking for the first point would be a step forward, a step on the path we have an obligation to take. And the rest of the amendment would give the possibility of expanding and widening rights in Euskadi, and it would certainly be a clear recognition of the suffering of people in poverty. We'll continue to work on copyright improvements. We've worked every institution, and we're still working. That is why, Mrs Sánchez, I am sorry, but we are going to support Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal, and we are going to continue to work for this situation to be unblocked, because, as Machado said, "The way is done by walking." Paralyzed we don't walk. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the answer shift, madam's Kortah, representative of the EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u62	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Nik Sánchez andreari bi gauza Bakarrik esan nahi nizkioke. You are a party of state – I said –, you ask for seriousness with things seriously, you tell us "you have presented without reports", I don't know what, a proposal... How have you presented yours, Mrs Sánchez, and you are in the government? How is it presented? What reports does your proposal have? Do you have an economic memory? Do you have a gender report? Do you have a legal report? Do you have any of those reports? On another issue too, I would like to remind you of the words of Idoia Mendia at the General Policy Plenary, a plenary in which Idoia Mendia thanked Euskal Herria Bildu for not closing the door to this income guarantee proposal. That's what Idoia Mendia said in this House. And I heard Mrs. Gorose on the radio the other day, and she said: "we predeciable You said a lot of things here, and I think there are things you can answer. You said you wanted to make pension policies here to guarantee incomes, and we won't encourage them. But you plan a specialization in your legal proposal. He's funny, isn't he? What are we talking about here? We are here on the custody of people, unfortunately because that's our jurisdiction at the moment. Our jurisdiction is the custody of Pertsion, and in this we have the pletitude, and we have, moreover, an enormous tool, and I believe that in this legislature there will be few persons who have defended their rents as well as I have. And further, the rent to secure incomes is a subjective right, an individual right, which, in the definition of its nature and of the units of conviction, becomes the property of life. But the Basque People is not one of the sayings of the Collectors-that is to say, one thing that is said by those who have been employed in these matters, and who have heard it. But furthermore, there is an account of this Lawman; because, either in this or that way agreed to reform here, or in this agreement, this tension was to be settled, as it were, by express agreement. He would say: "entre la defineion de la undad de convivencia y la protección a los miembros quetientiaen undad de convivencia." This tension, therefore, was present even when the planning of reform was made here, because it is an historic demand. And it is undeniable, as it is undeniable, in other words, it is undeniable. You've introduced a legal proposition, which doesn't give you a chance to give a change like this, and that's why we bring this proposition back as we've otherwise brought it. You said: "Give this pass." Who's done more work to make this proposal pass? What was the meaning of delaying the debate? You? Why is he alive to guarantee the income of this rent or this proposition of yours? And we found him face to face with muro For here a long process has been made to ensure incomes, a very long process. Many have been discussed by very important agents and who have been able to maintain revenues. This broad consent was demanded of the lady Artola generous, who was not able to obtain it. Moreover, he has invited those who are the principal enemies of the revenue to support the revenues, and it is hard to understand each other, but each must see his own cares and his position. You said: and if the Government had advanced what we proposed, the pensioners would have been much better off, if it had been brought in by us." And it was clear that what we brought here was possible and capable of being a matter of political will. You made one choice, and we did the other. That's the point. And I believe that Mrs. Guanche has described the process which has been made about the rent, not only in this, but also in the process which has been around the profession. It has been clearly observed that in these two cases the attitude of each, and the disposition of each of them, has been a process which every one has acted with generosity and care;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u64	Mrs Kortajarena, when you were trying to reach an agreement on the proposal for a law on income-guarantee reform, your parliamentary group stressed that the reform of the income-guarantee system had to be done in search of the greatest possible consensus between groups. And today it has come here unilaterally with a proposal that seeks an absolute change within the system, that mixes issues of pensioners with income guarantee income, that demands an individual right by changing the whole system of living units that exists and that gives stability to the income guarantee system, and that gives it the same. And to us we have said that it does not seem serious, and you have said that all this time you have come up against a wall, etc. I don't think so, and I think we've been involved continuously throughout this process. It has been tried by active and passive, but we the walls have seen them on the opposite side. We have seen all along a wall that has been impossible to save. And they say, "You're wasting your time." Well, well, if you weren't willing to go into serious negotiations either, it would have been more serious a year ago to say, "Well, we don't want to go into negotiations," when in the plenary we had here to return the bill to the government, it was asked that more time be needed to negotiate. But, in the end, we have not seen a real intention to arrive, a real effort to try to negotiate the same. We are where we are right now, and we have lost all this time, but everyone has to assume their responsibilities, because it is not the responsibility of the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which we have been trying for a year to reach that agreement, which has been absolutely impossible. And, during the same period, some group has not even put forward any proposals with proposals to be able to reach an agreement, as has been the People's Group. Then, on the other hand, I said that this bill differentiated between income guarantee income and pensioner guarantee income. An individualization was already established within it. And, now, that is obvious; no reference is made to this reform, which was positive and which was in line with what they are putting forward here. But no, as he didn't get in there, so that couldn't get through. It will continue as a bill, but, of course, as we have said, efforts have been made as quickly as possible, but it is not the fault of the Government or the Socialist Parliamentary Group that they have lost all this time. We have tried to negotiate; we have not been able to reach agreement on this. Mrs Guanche, if we're talking about RGI, we're not talking about universal income. Obviously, we all know that these are completely different things. In income security income, requirements have to be met, and persons who meet those requirements are entitled to access them. And, in addition, within the proposed initiative, it is presented as that there is a differentiation or preference and that gives priority to income-guarantee income to men over women. I do not believe that under any circumstances the rule establishes a differentiation in this sense within the units of coexistence, because it establishes the difference between the holder and the rest of the members of the units of coexistence, but that holder may be a man or a woman who asks for it, and the rest will be the members of the unit of coexistence; that they are adults, children, etc., will be taken into account, and will join within the unit of coexistence. That's what's in place. Of course, it did not seem serious to us to present this initiative today, and therefore we did not want to carry out a compromise amendment in this regard, but rather we want a serious reform of income guarantee income, studied as a whole, and that it also gives stability to an income guarantee system which is an example in Spain and also an example in many European countries. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u65	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u66	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Ma'am, what I'm telling you is that we've got a very important deal to make an examination of women who have pensioned, so that during a year the plan would come in integration, and we can respect what we're demanding and that rhythm. And on the other hand, a change of laws is required, if there be any demand, that we may use the efficient ways of making such a change of law, and not any such kind of propositions. Guanche anderea, so that the poet does not have to say "Walk there is no way, you make your way on the walk", let's start with what the poem said: "A while ago, in this place, where today the forests are dressed in thorns, you heard the voice of a poet scream: walker there is no way, you make your way on the walk". Presidentearen Baimenagaz, nire azken eguna denez, hori da nire desioa. You had herri honetan pauso oso garrantzitsuak eman say kalean, gizarteak bullzatuta, age Ganbera honetan. Ganbera honetan, this has been a forest, and my wish is not to be filled with thorns that prevent us from walking and prevent the next walkers from building this country. I am sure that all of us have Euskadi in our hearts, Euskadi in our heads, and we should not take steps in that direction, because sometimes we force speeches a lot. Perhaps, to pronounce, I do not know if we are afraid that our ideological projects will have no space and can be found. That's why, I insist, I think it's very important that part of that poem that, perhaps, is less remembered; that no one here says that at one point there was a forest and now there are thorns. Nine years... Well, I'm born in a farm, born in a farm, living and educated, and we're from mountain culture, and we have a lot of good things, and some bad things, too, some weaknesses, and others the difficulties of the expression of emotion. We're not like citizens, we're close and sound. I've been here for nine years. I have lived here a very pleasant and very difficult time, and I think they have all been very useful to me, for personal and political growth. and that I have no more enemies or enemies; at least not because of the enterprise I have made. If so, if any one has suffered evil from my enterprise, let him forgive me. I would only like one thing, and it is that if one day we find ourselves on the road, on a political road, on a personal road, if we find ourselves on the street, that is likely, all and all of us can look to the face, that I can look with you at the face, zugaz aurpegira begiratu, eta lota barik eta benetan poztasunez estea zelan pozten nauen ikustea, eta zer moduz zaudete. Until after and after. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe, and I wish you the best in that new way. Popular group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u68	Well, Mrs. Gorospe, then, I'll start with you. Me too, and from this group, we wish you the best. We have certainly shared many moments, and in many committees. You in nine years, I have been in this Parliament for 13 years now, and, moreover, we are more or less of the same generation, we are also women, with also specific concerns. And, as I said, we've shared many meeting spaces. We have also debated, and with passion, and sometimes with much fire. And, well, I also wanted to wish you the best, for my part, of course, always from respect, recognition, and I think it has also been so on your part. That is to say, in this sense, from the People's Group we wish you the best in your new path. And, well, in contrast to the subject, I shall say to Madame Kotja that she has finally agreed to ensure that the rent was a subjective right, because in this tribe we are really in the presence of an individual right, because it is a subjective right. Then it's clear that you wanted to talk about something else, and it's how you figure out how to get the money, but that's a different thing. But clearly, there's no doubt that there's no form of clara y rotanda, y porque así lo dice, que tumos ante un derecho subjetivo y un derecho individual. Another question is that the amounts corresponding to the unit of coexistence are calculated, as it could not otherwise be, according to the members of the unit of coexistence, and the members of a unit of coexistence are undoubtedly taken into account in the calculation of that amount. Man, I would also like to know, in order to know your proposal with greater precision, the economic impact of your measure. At least, if I did not pick it up in the written text, we would have had the opportunity to know here in his statements, neurori honen inpaktu ekonomikoa zein den, zeren azkenean ez baita esan, éta nik uste dut kontu hori bear inportantea de la gai honi buruz eztabaidatzean. Finally, two references. I think they are different, and it has also been said here: one thing is to talk about the social assistance system and another thing is to talk about the pension system. The social aid system complements incomes that do not reach minimum levels that have been established for a number of groups, among which we have considered pensioners to be included; but it is not a pension system, which, by the way, Mrs Kortajarena, in Euskadi would be absolutely impossible, because it is deficient, and there is the deficit of EUR 3 billion per year, which makes it absolutely impossible to have a pension system of its own. And, look, finally, another reference: precisely, the concern of the governments of the People's Party, where there has been competence in this matter, precisely has been to increase pensions, it is true that in a budgetary pact, but these amounts were included in the budget, precisely in the budget that Mr Sánchez has implemented, an increase in average pensions, widow's pensions and retirement pensions; not to mention also the supplement of pensions to women who have been mothers according to the number of children by 15%. And that is the way, and I think it is also important that that can be the way, provided that the conditions allow for increased employment, which is the best social policy. And, finally, Mrs. Sánchez, I have to make a reference to you. Look, the proposal made by the groups – and, in addition, it was signed by you as a representative of the Socialist Party – we consider it to be a hindrance to this Parliament, because, in addition, it was presented at the time when this group questioned the adviser on this matter. But it was also presented by the groups, when the responsibility was the responsibility of the Government; it was the responsibility of the Government because the Government, in its legislative calendar, had a commitment to refer to this House a bill which, as has also been said here – I have indicated in my first speech – is accompanied by all those documents, which are absolutely necessary to study in a more comprehensive way a legal text. Of course, you tell me the proposals of the People's Party. We've had meetings. We are still waiting, because we have considered the information and documentation submitted to us to be insufficient so far. We have asked, in a text in which there are 68 regulatory referrals, and in which we have been told that we were already working on the decrees, since we do not have the regulatory referrals and the texts of those decrees, we wanted to know what was progressing, to know the final text of the law, because it was an absolutely imprecise text, absolutely open. If you have put forward a text that, initially, serves you to agree with everyone, because there is no precision, no accuracy, that you trust in a future regulatory development. Therefore, you take on your responsibility, you take on the requests of the groups, and, at that time, if the scenario permits, there is no inconvenience in speaking of an absolutely constructive attitude. But you, from the moment on, have to assume your responsibility, and obviously, if you have not brought a bill with a series of documents that offer guarantees, then you will have to give those assurances to the groups that, seriously and constructively, we want to work to amend the existing legislation and the reform of Lanbide, which are our objectives, but not since this legislature; that objective was not shared, because they then denied the need for changes since the last legislature, which, as you well know, posed two concrete reforms that were not even taken into consideration in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u69	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Well, we, uh, a few appreciations. The first is that, in fact, the subjective right granted to the income guarantee is a de facto right But the motion for a law that has been brought to this House means that this good basic proposal is greatly reduced. And we have said this by active and passive, in multiple spaces, to take steps back. No, Mrs. Sanchez. We don't get dizzy, we're clear, we listen to the expert people, we listen to the perceptor people, and we focus on law and not on the budget. And the feeling we have is that this reform process is eventually becoming a deadlock. And we, Mrs Sánchez, even though you have been trying to repeat it for a few days, are not responsible, from the opposition, for the failure or the deafness of this government. It was just missing. Each with his own. I'll take responsibility. Elkarrekin We can assume your responsibility, but please, everyone to their little things. Thirdly, Mrs Sánchez, you said, if I did not misunderstand you, that the proposed law introduced by the PNV and the PSE provides for the individualisation of the pensioner's benefit. And that's not the case; it separates it from the general income guarantee income, but it doesn't make it individual. Don't say things that will then cause people to be confused. Because the income guarantee income for pensioners starts from the same precarious base, which says that in Euskadi, with 455 euros, you have to live with enough income, and then continues to accumulate the pensioners in living units. So let's be clear and let's make things clear. I just mutter it so there's no doubt. The RGI has been an exemplary system, but I think you need to check a little bit, because it's not anymore. And above all things, because of the things that have been heard in the use of the word of those before me, it seems that we are speaking of the tables of Moses. Our job in this Parliament is to make and amend laws. If we want and are willing to improve, broaden and expand the law, we have the possibility and the capacity to do so, we even have the mandate to do so. We are not talking, I insist, about the tables of Moses. Gorospe andrea, desioa konpartitzen dugu, bai noski. Nire bath wants to be poor ezine ekinez egina. Because, as far as I'm concerned, I'm very clear that I'm going to leave my skin for rearming the forest, because I'm also clear that there are already thorns, whether they're seen or not. Our speech has that firm intention of protecting and repopulating, but walking. In any case, all the respect, all the affection and all the best on the part, not only of me, but of the whole of Elkarrekin We can at this new stage. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The original text of another proposal, as well as the EH Collector, is finished. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u72	So, not allowed original text. Next, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote the whole correction of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 37; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u73	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Guanche Suáz together as members of the Podemos, of the escal system and dependence of social services. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u74	Thanks again, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u75	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u76	Today, with this motion, from Elkarrekin We want to put care back at the centre of the parliamentary debate. A historically invisible task outside the debate of what the major policies are considered. Tasks that have fallen and continue to fall on the shoulders of women. With this motive, once again, we draw the sentries into the open square, and we are ready to push the measures to which life should be placed in the centre. With this motion we put on the table solutions for the care of people in a situation of dependence, necessary and urgent solutions after studying the data of three recent reports, of three very different origins, but which reaffirm what many neighbors and neighbors in Euskadi already know, because they are living it in their own flesh. They show that we have waiting lists to care for the elderly and dependents in Euskadi who would need three years for it to end with them. More than 13,000 people who are in what is called the limbo of dependence; that is, they have been valued, but they are not given access to any service or service. And to this must be added the long list of conflicts: the strikes in the residences in Bizkaia or in Gipuzkoa, the strikes of the home help service, the unjustifiable and anachronistic situation of women domestic workers, the indisputable problems of the Basque system of social services, a sector that – let us remember – is also highly feminized and which presents numerous problems that are not completed. They are not isolated facts; they are the expression of a crisis that does not seem to want to see too much. With this scenario, it can be said without hesitation that there is poor management of care for people in situations of dependency, poor management of labour conflicts, and there is no direct management of the crisis of care that erupts in the daily lives of many women and families. Care, care for the elderly, children and adolescents and vulnerable persons, equality, social justice, of course, are not the priorities of this Government. Care has been immersed in the depths of a system that, if it continues like this, puts lives, social reproduction and, of course, the sustainability of all. Elkarrekin Podemos proposes with this motion to stop and think, to bring the debate to the surface, with the firm intention that these care forms part of the centrality of the so-called Basque agenda. And we believe that it is essential to address this agenda, that of the people, always from a feminist vision, a feminist and transformative vision because the simple distribution of tasks is important, but not enough if it is limited only to discourse. The sharing of tasks is desirable, but it alone will not solve the care crisis. Care is an issue that encompasses so many dimensions, which is such a broad issue that it is complex to address. That's why the initiative is so long. Therefore, we also propose to focus the debate and the search for solutions from the perspective of the whole social service system, but focusing on the attention to dependence and the impact that policies of care to dependence have on people's daily lives. We intend to do so with a clear look at the specifics; firstly, the people who are dependent, and secondly, the competences of this Government to resolve these situations, certainly looking also at the working people of the whole system and those who might be but are not. We believe that this debate must necessarily take place taking as a framework and horizon certain issues which are essential in order not to give rise to bandits, in order not to disorient ourselves and to reproduce inequalities. We believe that the first of these issues is that care truly constitutes a right and the public authorities really assume the responsibility to guarantee it. We bet on a public and universal system. Inequalities and injustices suffered by people must be eliminated on the basis of their purchasing capacity, the socio-family network they have or the place of residence in order to have access to the care necessary for a dignified life. Care must be taken out of the private sphere. The second is that co-responsibility between women and men is also a co-responsibility of the public authorities, private companies and society as a whole, to move towards a social and economic organization that puts people's lives and their well-being at the centre. They must cease to be a single responsibility of the family. The third is equality between women and men, because men must also integrate care into all activities of their lives, not only in their homes, but also in political activity. Men also have to incorporate this issue at the heart of the agendas. Just relegating the central issues that make people's lives stay in the background. No more issues such as dependence on major debates. Care must be politicized, and it is essential to seek structural solutions for that, because also, and in case they have not realized, this equality between women and men has another face, and it is that women have the right to choose whether to care or not, without being pressured by gender social mandates or by social or institutional pressure. Fourth pillar. We want to move towards a horizon in which the care sector will finally have the social and material recognition it deserves. Women domestic workers, social workers, residential workers and home help workers have been fighting for the quality of services throughout Euskadi, because the dignity of their working conditions directly affects the quality of the services they receive. It is time, in our view, for the Basque Government to face this situation with a high level of vision and a strategic vision of the future, not wanting to go over the profile as hitherto, which do not even attend to what we are saying. With these four objectives on the horizon, we propose with this motion a necessary revision and improvement of policies for the care of dependent people, of course, within the framework of the social services system. On account of this, we present this initiative to improve the lives of the people who want care and care for, the lives of thousands of people who live in Eukadin. In order to address these dependency care needs, the unit care system was established, which in the case of Euskadi is carried out under the social services system. A system that, as I mentioned earlier, has structural problems that do not end up facing and that it seems that we do not want to hear about even though we insist; problems that impact especially on municipal social services, which are the gateway to the system, the services closest to citizenship. Basic social workers, if they don't realize it, are making the whole system a containment wall. They are the ones who have to invent solutions where there are no solutions, those that put their faces when there is a waiting list or there is no answer, and are attending, for example, in the municipality of Bilbao, to more than 700 cases per professional. And that is not only quality, but it makes it impossible for any minimally individualized process, which, I repeat, is the mandate that the law of social services imposes on our municipal social services. You can tell me – and you're going to tell me for sure – that we can't be talking about this here because this is municipal jurisdiction. And I say to you that what happens in Euskadi in the social services system is the responsibility of this government, and that they do not hide behind those powers to wash their hands. Because the Government is responsible for the whole system, and it is not isolated, it is not a problem of a town council that is poorly organized; it is the product of a system that makes a bad and insufficient strategic bet for social services. We have, for example, since 2016 the Ararteko report, which gives a lot and very good clues on how to solve the problems of the social services system. What did the Basque Government do? He received it reluctantly and reluctantly. Three years, and we haven't seen a single gesture for making good use of that report. And it's not ours, Elkarrekin Podemos; it's Ararteko's. The intermediary has introduced a great deal of recommendations in this particular report, and the other demands that political and technical officials should accept the work of society, and that its influences are of importance, not only in their well-being, but also in the social barrier and in the stage of economy and culture. There was also a large group of recommendations to develop municipal social programmes and services, which we neither hear nor talk about. According to the Unit's State Observatory for 2018, in Euskadi the balance between persons accessing benefits and services is 51.8%, well above 38% of the state average, and obviating the recommendation of the law itself, which says that economic provision is an exceptionality. You, who like to compare themselves so much and put themselves at the head of the state, know that you are behind communities like Andalusia and Galicia. We also imagine that you will tell us that another of the great shortcomings of this system should not be addressed here either because it concerns the external competences, and neither should we or can we get involved. But I would repeat what I said a moment ago about the municipalities: there is responsibility and there is possibility; what I am not so clear is that there is will. We have three historical territories, with three different models of attention, and what does that mean for people? Well, suppose you live in Araba, Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa, you will have some or other rights. For example, if you live in Errenteria, it will take six months for them to give you an assessment appointment; if you live in Portugalete, one and a half months for them to give you an appointment in the social services, two or three months waiting for the Chamber to give you a seat, and then three or four months until you can enter a day centre, if they do not invite you to accept the financial aid to delete you from the waiting list, question that they raise as incompatible, but it is not so. If you're in Araba, you probably don't have access to squares, because there's not enough. And what does this translate into? I insist, that there is no equality for people according to where they live, and it is neither fair nor should it continue to be so. With this initiative, from the point of view of honesty, we bring concrete and possible measures, all within the framework of competences. We plan to recognize that there is an urgent need for better attention, to put on the table the disastrous management that is being done by the Basque Government, and to finally exercise the role of leadership that belongs to it by law, and to put an immediate end to the chaos of dependence, in collaboration with the parliaments and municipalities within the framework of the existing agencies. To that end, we call for the implementation of the social services plan, a mandate and a commitment that is already late and bad. We urge to resolve the inequalities of the three territories, another mandate acquired through the adoption of the Social Services Act which they are also failing to fulfil. In addition, we urge the Government, in collaboration with outlaws, municipalities and with the participation of other social actors, such as the civil dialogue table or professional colleges, to carry out a diagnosis of care for dependent persons in three months. We want a data, because the lack of data – it was said the other day in the inquiry, Mrs Artolazabal – it is a fact, but it is also lack of transparency and it is to hide the reality to paint us an oasis that is not such. We plan to comply with the agreement calling for the residence decree, which you are already failing to comply with again. We plan to comply with what is regulated by the social record, which is not being complied with either. We expect that what is said in the documents regulating the social and health field, which are not being complied with, will be fulfilled. We plan to improve, in short, the system as a whole with data interoperability, a commitment that is already fulfilled by agreement in this House, and to which you are not making any case either. We left important things to reach agreement, things that we left behind because we understand that agreements are important, and we consider that, despite having – for now – given up the creation of a shock plan in the field of dependence so as not to leave behind all those jobs and all that wealth that is being lost by betting on economic aid, we consider that nothing happens to leave this, and we consider honestly and sincerely that our proposal has been enriched by the contributions of the groups. We will see, and certainly invite, all of us to vote in favour of our proposal. What is clear to us is that it is a simple proposition, which does not ask for great things, beyond the fulfillment of what is already committed in law and in plans. Together the Podemos team works for equality, solidarity and justice, we want to fill cities with life, and we want to put all the people in the centre. Because not to do that would be to keep putting your head under the wing, and I'm sure that's not what we want any for any of the dependent people in Euskadi. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u78	Yes, thank you again, Mr. congressman. And the congressmen again, good morning. Now, to speak of dependence on this member is to discuss the system of our social services, and of course its development. We have in the system of social services the attention of addiction, which gives to the forum and the councils a sort of protagonism in the management of all this. This is one of our specialities, of great importance to me, and I saw Guanche, a little blurred, and Mrs. Guanche, both in the head of that interpelation which was the chief of the Artolanolls, and even in the motion we are able to discuss. And it is a very important thing for me, and so I gave it to the speaker, for this people made a concrete political choice, of the establishment of a whole system of social services, and this wager was favorable to the preservation of their wants in relation to their dependence. And it's a theme that shouldn't be out of sight, and it's a point of view when we talk about it. And in this sense, I think it is undeniable, if we at least look at the state, there is a great difference in regard to the attention given to dependence. As to this limbo of addiction, in this comparison of the State, it is a better state here, but this side is not the case; the development of our DNA in the sphere of social solidarity and justice, in the sphere of social services, has not been anywhere else in the state, and, as the entrance of submission is integrated into it, the difference is evident also. It is also inconceivable that this degree of dependence has descended, and that it is much better than the state of media; That also is an undeniable fact, in resisting only a state of dependence, 13.800 persons. And I should truly say that all these comparisons, which may be made to the state, or to some other reality, are of little value to those who are in that state. We may convert this discussion into a data cross, but in a certain degree I would avoid it, and therefore I will accept it as a starting-point, so as not to be in the sistra, I allow in either report, all the positive aspects which appear in those comparisons with the state. I'll approve of them. I am not going to question those aspects in which we appear to make a difference or those differences, because, moreover, it seems to me that we have cured it. And, well, to me what gives me doubt is that those same reports that are used to refer to those distances, which are those that Mrs Artolazabal used, well, I'm not going to get into that much, but they also refer to other data from our system that are not so good and in which we don't get so well standing in those comparisons with the State and which she omitted. For example, it refers to the worst level of coverage than the state average in home social services, and you were telling us that people wanted to stay at home, but precisely in these services we are worse, like home help and, look where, teleassistance, which is, by the way, your responsibility, direct responsibility. And it is also true that we are worse in daytime stays, and that there is an imbalance between spending and coverage, which suggests a certain efficiency problem. But, more importantly than that, it seems to me that, if attention to dependence is, as Councillor Artolazabal said, a challenge for Euskadi, and therefore the policies of this Government are based on active ageing, inclusion, good governance and full participation and maximum comfort for dependent people, I believe that the margin of improvement is very wide, and more in view of the leadership we have had as a community in all these policies and the framework we have ourselves given ourselves, that framework we have provided ourselves with. Because, as I said before, talking about dependency in this Autonomous Community is talking about the social services system and its development, and I think that at this point, 10 years after the adoption of the Social Services Act and the way to the third since the adoption of the social services portfolio, it is relevant already to demand from the Government another type of response, beyond seeing what the reports say about how we are, as responsible, above all, for the leadership, the development of that system. Then, if the true challenge is a dependency, it is agreed with this that our team, together with what we're doing, will consider what we're doing, rather than what others say about us. And here there are certain indissoluble accounts, and there is the lack of the law of social service, and its consequences are very serious; and there is the degree of the development of the planetal function of the 2016-2010 Society. And with regard to the aspects mentioned in the motion, there are elements that are key to what is the attention to dependence, such as axis 1, universalization of care, territorial planning and equity in access; or axis 5, cooperation between systems, since attention to dependence must be socio-healthy, so the progress made in this regard is fundamental. But we don't know what that strategic plan is about, because neither has the mid-term evaluation that was planned for the first half of 2017, that was tendered, that was awarded, that was then returned and that now, in a parliamentary response, Mrs Artolazabal told us that they were seeing how it was going to be done. And the Ararteko report – Mrs Guanche has mentioned it and I am not going to touch on it – but it talks about the differences between territories and the difference in equal opportunities that is generated on the basis of these inequalities. He mentioned the Typic Y mencion, the Gapian, and the Gipu, and at this moment he mentioned it as a country which has best answered the states of dependence, and that is because it is a well-grown land, and that's all there is to be seen of the Euscal Country when he was in the Forum Aldundi, what course was made in the development of social services, and just about the development of the wallet and social services, and the data of those who came after that. And it cannot be denied that even the characteristic developments which are of the highest importance in the notice of dependence are still at rest. And what shall I tell you about the decree of the evidence? Six years to do it. What do I tell you about those other ones who follow after you? What do I tell you? I don't know how the head of the Artolalliers will push this new paradigma into interpelation, unless there is any modification in other concrete developments. Nor do we see great progress in the implementation of the basic care procedure, which would also be another element that would allow us to have much information about what is happening in the unit, which also mentioned Mrs Sánchez in the inquiry, that lack of data on the real needs of people, and there we also have another decree of 2015 with many difficulties. Y, well, we see that according to their financial choices, the dependence, what they're replaced, are given economic aids instead of preparation. In fact, Mrs. Guanche has also mentioned the base face of the watch, the conditions on which they work in the care and in the work of submission. There are refugee workers, but there are also women who work at home. There is also an important occupation in the profession, a method of encouraging the procedures of professional certificates working under submission, a very pretty opportunity for pushing women in a pre-collector's position to exercise their proper employment in a limbo. Eta, Mrs Artolazabal also mentioned that we are working on these strategic axes of the Social Care Plan, eta, I remembered how the lehendakari was talking about a Nordic plan for attention to ageing, and I thought: Ah!, well, it will be that the Swedish are being made, the truth, because it is also true that the Social Care Plan, the portfolio of these social health services is being very limited, and, to the extent that the decrees and social services are not driven and not developed, it is difficult for there to be a social health portfolio. With this, I understand that it is a rather complicated situation, because we have a framework, we have a very good framework, we have a framework that allows us to circulate in a very positive variant, and we are paralyzing it. We're paralyzing him. And, in addition, we stayed in that complacency of saying, "Look, in the comparisons with the others we get very angry." It is that we have made commitments to ourselves, and that is what makes us referent; not the results, but those commitments that we have made. That's the important thing. We have made a choice in favor of the public services which will enable our care to place itself in the centre, in favor of the model which enables men to form worthy conditions of life and worthy conditions of labour. As in the attention of the century, as in the system of social services, our wager is on the side of the attempted attempt to construct worthy and voluptuous alternatives. And we believe that we have starting-points and handles, for those starting-points and handles are consistent. Those startings and handles are consistent. These are very suitable frames. They're very suitable frames for making progress. And we need infulto. Ingulto, that leader is to you, chief of the Artolanolls, because the leader of the development of all this is a delight to you. So make use of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u79	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u80	It's not always worth looking for excuses; it's not worth it, it's not worth it. It's not worth slipping the bundle or being Swedish. We must put ourselves to it and take advantage of the fact that we have a framework of broad consensus, a framework that puts us in a privileged position. And we must maintain that situation of excellence, that situation of excellence in which we are located.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, chief of departments. Partners. Well, we've been living more and more together, and we're agreed that this is good news, but at the same time, it has a direct influence on old people's attention, and we can say that the care of public powers and, more especially, of public institutions, and that it's also the business of the townhouses, and especially of the Euskés. And to resist dependence, and to give necessary attention to quality, must be nice to all institutions. And, right there, you're gonna have to go down to the Red Beetle. And we've been pretty worried lately about the way you're been doing the 'Mulk' thing. A few months ago, we had a remarkable opportunity of discussing this subject here in the legislature. And I think it was clear that the goals which we intended to establish in the law of Social Services were not attained. And in particular, the Eukökong hasn't done his jobs or his duties in particular particular, especially when he's about to push the rules. Therefore, attention to dependency is a matter of the utmost priority for all the institutions involved, which are several, and for the role which it also has or which it has to take over from the Basque Government, a very clear role, provided for in the legislation in force in relation to the coordination function, the guardianship function, the function of being a legislator, the adoption of the corresponding legislation which gives protection to the Basque system of social services. As I said, the Social Services Act dates back to 2008, and on the occasion of its tenth anniversary, we had the opportunity in this Parliament to speak on this issue at a table composed of the various political groups. And we have to say that the conclusions of that forum left much to be desired, and that a certain inability of the Government to assume its role throughout the Basque system of social services, configured as such in the law adopted in 2008, was demonstrated. Yes, it is true – and I said it at the time and I have repeated it in many of the speeches on this issue – that the issue was not easy, it was not easy to address it, to reach its intended objectives, especially since the starting point was not the same between the outside institutions, and therefore some institutions, specifically, had to make a greater effort. As far as the Basque Government is concerned, we too have shown – and I also believe that this has also been reflected in specific initiatives in this House – a certain inaction by the Basque Government in the delay in the adoption of the relevant legislation. I will cite an example which has also been mentioned here and which is also reflected in the compromise amendment, and which has to do with the decree corresponding to the regulation of residential centres, since it is a mandate unanimously of the 2017 Parliament, and, recently, we also had to debate this issue, because the updating of the decrees corresponding to this matter was not yet approved. Esan dudan bezala, kalitatezko arrita ematea ezinbestekoa da, eta, bereziki, arrita horrek dakar, on the one hand, when we talk about quality care, we talk about residential centers; we talk about day centres; we talk about the social health space; we talk about care for chronic people and multipathological patients; we talk about strengthening home care, which, as has been said here, there is a wide margin of improvement; we talk about teleassistance. In short, I believe that we can conclude a lack of leadership and ambition on the part of this Government in addressing its competences in the field of social services. It is true that many of them are also shared, and others are exercised by other institutions within the Basque Autonomous Community, in Euskadi, such as the outlying institutions and the municipalities. With regard to this initiative of dependence, we too want to take advantage of the fact that the work of caregivers, which is a clearly feminized sector, is undoubtedly valued. And, on the other hand, as we have also made clear on repeated occasions when we have spoken on this subject, it is the issue of funding; I mean that we cannot cheat on the solitary either here. If we are asking specific institutions, such as the parliaments and municipalities, to provide more services and services within the framework of the approved service portfolio, and to attend to waiting lists, which are also waiting lists and there are waiting figures, and there are also the differences between the three territories, then it is inescapable to talk about funding. And the issue of funding, sooner than later, will have to be touched. And we do not understand the position of some groups, which do not want to address this issue openly, sincerely and rigorously, in order to really equip those institutions that have specific powers in the provision of services in this area, with sufficient resources to deal with them. And I'm referring to the parliaments and the municipalities. Therefore, there can be no delay in addressing a thorough reflection in the relevant bodies on the allocation of resources within the Basque Country between the different institutions, and I am referring to the coefficients set out in the Act itself. Therefore, we have not entered into the compromise amendment, but, of course, we are not going to obstruct it. It is true that we have tried to influence and that some specific issues were addressed, in our view, with a little more precision and realism, really going to the point. I do believe that it is important to give the Government an earful, and that, obviously, the assessments that are pending in relation to the Strategic Social Services Plan are brought once and for all to this House. On the other hand, to address these inequalities that exist between the historical territories. We believe that it is appropriate, as the wording finally stands, for a diagnostic report to be drawn up on the care of dependent persons at this time in cooperation with the parliaments and the municipalities. We also ask that the pending decrees be referred to the House once and for all – and let us hope that this will be the final one. Another of the issues that we pointed out in our amendment was that of the development of the Social Welfare Plan with a timetable of actions and budgets to be fulfilled in what remains of the legislature, and I think it is also interesting to introduce the issue of improving data interoperability. In short, I believe that this initiative or the agreement reached makes it possible to move forward, and, above all, it would not have to be so again, but it seems that it is necessary to reintroduce the Government, and let us hope that this time the Government will fulfil the issues entrusted to it by this initiative, and that we will not have to have a debate on these issues or on other collateral issues that have to do with dependence, with the elderly, because the Basque Government, unfortunately, to the detriment of the Basque citizens, has not fulfilled the commitments it made at the time on the government programme, on the legislative timetable itself; and, in short, that it will take action once and for all. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u83	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u84	Yes, thank you very much, President. We will discuss people in dependency within the framework of the Basque system of social services. In the intervention of the proposer group, in the motion preceding this inquiry in plenary on 5 April, the proposer group itself presented a situation in dependence within our Basque Autonomous Community which was somewhat catastrophic, and the Government was accused of mismanagement, and today too. But it does not refer to data collected in the latest opinions of the Observatory of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, a prestigious entity, which conducts its studies on an annual basis. These reports indicate that the system generates more than 17,000 jobs in the Basque Country, generating 46 jobs per million, well above the national average of 37.7%. The Basque Government contributes more than EUR 456 million to the system of dependency, i.e. 85% of public expenditure. The General Administration of the State, EUR 74 million, i.e. 14% of public expenditure. And it shows that the agreed level was cut in all the common system communities, while in the Basque Country and Navarra the equivalent to that level was maintained thanks to its funding model, so they suffered the breakdown less than the rest of the autonomous communities. And that, despite the reform carried out by the People's Party in 2012, the date on which the State ceased to make its funding commitment at the minimum level, disappearing the agreed level. According to the last report of the Unit Observatory, published last Friday, the unit has lost during the legislature of Mariano Rajoy €2,865 million. The abolition of one of the sources of financing of the system at the agreed level, the reduction of the resources allocated to each person according to their dependence at the minimum level and the abolition of contributions to family caregivers facing social security are the reasons that have led Spain to this scenario. By the way, the contributions to the carers have just been recovered by the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, recently. Within this observatory report, only five communities are approved, with the best rating Castilla y León, Andalusia, Basque Country, Castilla-La Mancha and Madrid; the rest are suspended. The average expenditure per dependant in the Basque Country is 13% higher than the national average; on the other hand, the average expenditure per capita is significantly higher than the national average, by 50.6%, and its coverage rate is 8.16 points above the national average. We have a strategic health plan 2017-2020 that highlights the importance of coordination between the two, and in that I believe we all agree. And progress has been made in the teleassistance service. We have in Euskadi a score in the attention to dependence of 7.5 out of 10, being the only autonomous community that gets it. Therefore, we cannot present a catastrophic situation, because it moves away from the existing reality. You can't do demagogy with these things. However, that does not take away so that we can continue to take steps to improve our system of dependence – and in that I believe we all agree – and to continue to advance in the equalization of attention between the three historical territories, but we must recognize where we are. Attention to dependency is an important issue. We must meet the needs of vulnerable people, meeting their care needs. They ensure from the Observatory that the dependency system has a great capacity to generate jobs in a highly feminized employment sector, and that quality jobs should also be created. And it is not a social spending policy, but a social investment, since, according to the data from the last report, published last Friday – as I said – of the Observatory, of every 100 euros of public expenditure in dependence, the public arks recover more than 38. It is important to offer the best quality resources, responding to what the dependents prefer: care in their homes, in residences, etc. Attention to dependence in our Autonomous Community is good, and I do not say so; it is recognized by the reports of prestige, which shows the commitment of the Basque institutions to dependence. We do not agree with the initiative put forward, where it is intended to give a catastrophic image, and where we have also seen a difference between what was proposed in the initiative itself and what is ultimately reflected in the compromise amendment and the speech that has been made here today. We are therefore going to defend the amendment to the whole tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, which states that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue working, in collaboration with the other Basque institutions and entities in the third sector, within the framework of the Basque Council of Social Services and the inter-institutional body for social services, on the continuous improvement of the Basque system of social services. On the other hand, the Basque Government is also urged, within the framework of the development of the strategic plan for social services, to carry out the monitoring and evaluation measures provided for in paragraph 5 of the plan, aimed at coordination, dynamism, monitoring and evaluation and updating of the plan, because they are already planned within the plan. Finally, the Basque institutions are urged to improve the interoperability of data, in order to be able to carry out statistical operations that serve to make decisions about the improvement of the system, because we believe that this is also important. We could agree with the points contained in the compromise amendment; in fact, points 1 and 6 coincided with those contained in our initiative. Obviously, we also have to agree with the implementation of an earlier initiative adopted in this Parliament, as it could not be less, obviously. But we also believe that evaluation mechanisms already exist, which, of course, can be used to achieve this, and that is why we are going to support our amendment as a whole, the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u85	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. When I heard the arguments he had given me and read the motion, I was not at all satisfied with what was required. I didn't quite understand the purpose of the motion. It is true, and I must confess that this is not the first time that has happened to me in the presence of a Podemos. And so I have often said to the hostess more than once. Besides, today, in your interference, Mrs. Guanche, you have uttered other new and different arguments in your entry, and it seemed to be chiefly to express the position of Podemos, which seemed to be the voter of the election. The motive, we believe, not only criticizes the eucalyptic system of social services, but rather the confusion of so many things. That's not news either. While in other parts of the State and even at the international level the Basque system of social services is set as an example to follow, the initiative criticizes the powerful system of protection that we have, focused on people, pioneer, progressive and with infinitely higher coverage than that of the rest of the state systems. Despite the fact that the Basque system is recognized as a model to be implemented in other autonomous communities, even in those governed by Podemos, here all sorts of criticisms are poured into the system, many of which are based on erroneous assumptions and data, in our opinion, mixing regulations – state and autonomous –, competences – where the outlaws also have a lot to say – reports from different times, quality of service with the working conditions of the people who provide them. A little bit of everything picks up the motion. And, by using the same expression as the proposer, chaos seems to us the initiative. We take advantage of it to deny the older one. The system is not a chaos, as you say, Mrs Guanche, both in the motion and on the day of the inquiry, and today you have also mentioned it, albeit in more form of a cover. As I have told you, even representatives of your own party have come to Euskadi to learn from the system, in order to be able to implement it in those places where they have government responsibilities. But not only do we say that, the representatives of the parties that support the Basque Government; Mrs Kortajarena has also acknowledged that. The DEC index, of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, considers that Euskadi stands out in this field, obtaining excellence – it has also been said – affirming that the coverage of the dependence is 7.75 in Euskadi, level much higher than the average of the State, 5.08 %. That's not enough? What needs to be further improved? We agree. I'll go through the basic points of the equipment on the stage. We agree that submission must be a popular challenge, and so the chief physician confessed. And we're working on it. Seeing the age of the population we have, it is evident that the importance of this matter is undeniable. It is also necessary to consider, whether most men, by their dependence, or by their dependence; - aside from their degrees, they want to continue living in their old homes and villages. That's what you said, too. It's an active old-fashioned strategy that's in progress because we've got the best strategy of getting ahead of all the states of population. However, in proportion as the population of over 85 years rises, we must be prepared to face the cases of dependence which it may lead to. And the system we have is ready for that. Even in the sociosphere, important progress has been given. Not enough? Okay. Are we still working? So did he. And that's where we always have the television service, praise from users and institutions, today's services, moderns, which apply new technology and has people on the axis of the service. Reports of experts say that to improve the quality of the service we have to perform the social field. And we're also prepared to go forward on that, too. Well, when he says with the proposeor that management should be improved. Okay. We are prepared to advance, as I have told you, to adapt the management to today, to facilitate the tramites. But what we don't admit is that it's a chaotic starting-point, not at all. Many times we have commented that the improvement must be continuous, realistic, without falling into self-congratulation, but recognizing and highlighting the powerful and referent system that we have, because, with such exacerbated criticisms – the system is chaos – it is difficult to reach agreements to advance the improvement, because they are, in addition to unfair and exaggerated, uncertain. As for the third point of the original initiative, which seeks to resolve inequalities in the attention to the dependence of the historical territories, it is obvious, perhaps because the report from which the data are taken out has not taken it into account, the adoption of the portfolio decree and its entry into force, which, precisely, seeks to make the differences in benefits in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa minimal. You, Mrs Guanche, know as well as I do the effort that has been made to bridge differences and to move forward in a system in which all people in the Autonomous Community have the same rights, regardless of the territory in which they live. And the same rights are recognized by law. With regard to the fourth point, concerning the preparation of a diagnostic report on care for dependent persons, we do not see the need for it. The information that is intended to be collected is public. In Euskadi, out-of-court deputies, competent institutions, submit all data and figures to SISAD, the Information System on the Ministry's Unit. Therefore, it makes no sense, in our view, to do a job that has already been done. We must be accountable with public resources. We must also be responsible with the competences of each institutional level, being the competence of the outlaws; in any case, it would be up to them to carry out the survey of the satisfaction of the users, if they considered it relevant or if so requested on the general boards of the different historical territories. As for the employment shock plan in the dependency sector, which was also mentioned in your original initiative, although later, in order to reach an agreement, you have withdrawn it from the transaction, but it is true that you have mentioned it in your speech; therefore, I too will answer you. As you are well aware, the Government has also been working on this issue through the dependency powers, which Mrs Kortajarena has mentioned. Through the close collaboration between Lanbide and the Vice-Adviser of Vocational Training, an annual training scheme is convened, of which a very high percentage of the total demand is focused on the training linked to the unit. So that's what he's doing, too. It doesn't make any sense if he's doing it, so we think he's doing it. Since we didn't agree with the basic initiative For all that has been explained, we introduced the correction of the whole, with three precise points: one, that the institutions of Esscal and the institutions of the third sector should continue together in a constant improvement of the euscal system of social services, in the advice and organs prescribed by the law, as well as in the application of plans to do what is required, so that we do not see the need of a new inquiry. Two, according to the fifth sections of the strategic plan of social service, let the tracking and evaluation perform the coordination of the plan, dymization, continuity, evaluation, and update of the planet, but with the tools we have. And let the euscal institutions improve interoperaability, so that we can perform statistical operations, with the purpose of improving the system, and that's what you've taken in your middle course correction. In short, we ask the other institutions with jurisdictions, and the institutions of the third sector, to continue working together, in the sphere, organs, and institutions prescribed by the law, with the one and only purpose: Improving system management. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u88	Thank you, ma'am. Let's see if I don't miss out, that I've taken note of a lot of things and I don't want to leave anything unanswered. Primero first, Signora Kortha's wife and Mrs Garrido, thank you so much for giving Mrs. Cortha's birth and voting for Garrido. I don't take away recognition of what is done right; I didn't do it in the interpellation, and I don't have the feeling that I did it today, because I'm from the sector. It just wouldn't make sense. The chaos of the unit is the name they have put on one of the documents. It is not that I say that the social services system is a chaos; it is that the situation that occurs throughout the State, the different models and the different realities are called the chaos of dependence. And yes, I used that expression. We may have misunderstood each other, but I don't take value from things that are done well. What I do want is to diagnose to be better, because I think I don't want to talk about things that aren't done right, or at least not want to do it in public forums limits us, limits us, and, frankly, I have a feeling of frustration, because the feeling is that we are constantly recognizing that there is a problem within the framework of the Basque system of social services – today with dependence, with childhood at other times, with so many other things that we have talked about – and we haven't finished making progress, with doing more. And it's not as much a political frustration as it is a citizen. I mean, I don't want to be afraid to get older, because I know that there are institutions that will take care of me; and I, today, am afraid to get older, because I don't know if there are institutions that will take care of me, and, as I come from the Canary Islands, I don't have a family here that will take me. Yeah? Mrs. Sánchez, I'm not a catastrophe. I do one of the tasks that I have to do – I said it the other day; I repeat it today – as an opposition in a parliament, which is the work of impulse. In that work of momentum, we may or may not agree on the diagnosis we do, on the elements we do; but what you cannot tell me is that I am a catastrophe to come here to point out things that are not being done well and that the Government itself recognizes that they are not being done well. Having said that, it is also that you have only looked at yourself, when analyzing the documentation, you have only looked at the graphs. But the text of the reports clearly says that, indeed, Euskadi is one of the places where it is most invested, and I want to make a diagnostic report; from Elkarrekin Podemos, we propose to make a diagnostic report, because what it also says is that it is spent a lot, but it is not well spent. Then, an analysis will have to be made of whether the investment being made is appropriate or not. The report you have pointed out, indeed, speaks of the pre-eminence of the assessment made of the social services system in Euskadi, but it also speaks of the fact that this place is being lost and that much of what it achieves, of what keeps it up there has to do with that investment, which is being questioned whether it is efficient or not. So, I say: is it so bad to propose to stop, reflect, review and propose another way of doing this? Because, I see, in the amendment to be adopted today it does not say anything that does not start from the diagnosis; what it says is to make a diagnosis and fulfill elements that are the commitment of this Government, because that is what the laws, plans and all those beautiful paradigm changes say that Mrs Artolazabal always comes to introduce us. Okay, said this, let's go through with it. Mrs Arregi, different arguments from those of the clear motion that I have used, because I don't usually like – I know we don't always listen to everyone – but I don't usually like coming to the House to repeat what I have already said. I do not believe that the Basque system of social services does not work; what I do believe is that the political stake made, in particular by the Department of Employment and Social Policy, is poor and insufficient, and I do not believe that there is a real interest in exercising the leadership given to it by the law, and that is what I consider and I do not have any kind of blush in maintaining it in any forum. If we really bet on the social service system, let's talk about how to improve it. Throughout all the time we've been in the legislature, a lot of initiatives have been brought around the system, and hardly any comes out, because you almost never want to move the government, and that's been suffered by you over all things, and I know your will is real. What I want to make clear in this House is that our initiative today, which is also going to be supported by the other groups, is born of the possibility and the ability to want to do things better, because we really can do things better. We will, of course, continue working to try. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u90	Well, thanks again. Now if this be a popular challenge, I am astonished to see him answer a popular challenge, and continue to propose what is done by groups supporting the Government. Because that's basically what you're proposing in your amendment or correction. Seguir seedendo lo que se viene seedo. And it seems to me that when a matter is tested as a popular challenge, and in what circumstances they are, see what situation they are in, what our frame is, what evolution this frame has developed, we don't even have the evaluation of that evolution. Well, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know how to get it. Eske And the social service manager report has gone up and down. I am of great value to this report; it seems to me that it is highly interesting. I don't know what will happen with this report, apart from being laws and rights, when they begin to score the execution of those rights. Because Mrs. Argrei said that there are tenemos los miseros derechos reconodos por ley. "Pero no se jecutan; no se puede unjecutar de la misma era." And there's some data. I brought some because I had it handy, but, for example: imbalances and interterritorial inequalities in what are day centers for the elderly. Disequilibriums and inequalities in what are residential centres for the elderly. And there are important: 3.48 in Gipuzkoa; 2.73 in Bizkaia; 3.17 in Arabic. Disequilibrium and inequality in terms of economic provision for care; important, because it refers to 4,000 families. Thus, the same rights recognized, but not the same possibility, the same right to implement those rights. And we have to put the seal there, and, as we said before, the frame is very positive. And let's take a look at this report, because in that report, I'm talking about I'm talking about, because this report is a real value for me, I'm recommending to this member of Erdigo. And he says: This is a challenge to cut down the contempt that lies in this degradation of dependence, and to place it as a challenge, because you have marked the leadership in social policies and it's important. And he says: consider the design of your system of social services, because they are sensible of problems of efficacy. And you don't plan that. We can't stay in a report that interests us, because that's what it's like to do, Mrs Sánchez. That's not really how it comes to things. Or that which always comes around the service. There is always the service of the como de los de peor coorbera, and here nothing is done but praising and praising. And it's true, we don't move forward with exaggerated criticisms, it's hard to move forward, but even in this excessive self-infestivity it's impossible to move forward. So we'll have to look for balances. And during this legislation our team has constantly brought up our proposals to study the law of social service together. What was your answer? No. No. And the thing is, not just, not helping. But reality is six years of making a decree, and all the rest is to see when all who follow will come. And I think it's important to be on this subject. It is a space of consensus, where we have positive startings and handles, and here the proposals of our party, as in others, to be really engaged, without self-infestivity and without excessive censure, give proper answers to the engagements we have taken.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. The Basque Popular must not speak. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u92	Let's see, Mrs Guanche, you, in your first speech, pointed out that you wanted to improve a number of things, to bring the decree of residential centers as soon as possible... And, as I was hearing, I was headed by the Committee on Employment and Social Policy last Tuesday, where you supported an initiative by the EH Bildu group to re-recast the gender impact report of the residential centre decree, because you did not like the gender impact report that existed. And, at that time, I was saying... at the previous point, at point three, we were saying that one of the reasons they didn't want the bill to reform income guarantee was because it didn't have all those reports. And when he has them, then, he does not like the gender impact report, and they want them to make that report again and remake the decree, but he also asks today that this decree should come as soon as possible and that we should have it as soon as possible. Man, that, of course, is a little incongruous. And I remember, on the other hand, that we have a law, such as the Housing Act, which was presented as a proposal for a law by the Socialist Group. I didn't have all those reports, and it's a great law. With this, it is not the only example that has come to this House and that was allowed to debate it. What I see is that, many times, what they are putting in the last initiatives are sticks on the wheels, or that they are directed to the electoral process in which we find ourselves. I believe that, in the vast majority of the speeches, we have all shown that it is a good system that we have. Of course, all systems are improveable, and the framework is good, and efforts must continue to be made to move forward. I believe that we agree on that, but without forgetting, under no circumstances, where we are and without disregarding it. That is why I have put forward in my first speech the arguments for which we do not support today's compromise amendment, and we are going to support the compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u93	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u94	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank you for the second round, because we've been trying to, because we've all made an effort to find an agreement, and, well, we've been grateful for all our efforts. And I know that Podemos has also made an effort, and that some things have been taken away from the Government to sign that middle line. But, well, it wasn't possible, and when, as I said, it begins to say that everything in its fundamental initiative is chaos, it's hard to get out of it and get into harmony. And even that, in our opinion, makes it very difficult to accept the opposition and the motion in point of point, so that we will not allow it, as a whole, because we understand the motion, and we will not even ask to do so. And it must also be said that we agree with many points of fundamental initiative;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u95	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u96	On the one hand, because it is required to force another received proposal, which is approved by us, to fill up the strategic plan, social record, and we are on the side of it. And, to say the words of Madame Kortja, we have a good Norwegian frame, and what we have to do is, in our opinion, to develop and execute it. Baina, ori esanda, we are not afraid to discuss anything, either in public or in private, Mrs Guanche, but what we do understand is that we have enough instruments, enough bodies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u97	Just a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u98	... in the existing regulations themselves, and that what we have to do is to comply with them. And it is true that in some things it is late; the evaluation of the Strategic Plan has not been fulfilled, as was said, and we have to recognize it, provided that we are denied self-congratulation. It is true that it is late, and it is also true that it is difficult because different institutions are involved, but we already know what institutional architecture we have in this country. And, said this, having the instruments that already exist in the Law itself, we do not understand that a new plan is necessary, because we could see ourselves again implementing a plan that is not going to be fulfilled. We believe, then, that it is more effective and more important to use the instruments and agencies that the law itself contemplates and enforce. And it is that already the Social Services Act itself, in article 24, speaks of how to do it; also article 35, which speaks of the strategic plan, says how to do it... But the issue of gender impact, etc., is already covered by the law. I mean, not because he puts himself on a point-by-point basis in that strategic plan, that he thinks he's gonna solve the whole jam or whatever... Let us enforce what we have, let us look at the regulations that we have, that are good and, moreover, it was recognized, and let us continue to move forward, but also trying to make the criticisms constructive and in a way to move forward, so that we do not always remain alone with the thick line, and try to solve how we are moving forward, because I believe that the system is good and that, obviously, there are improvements and that there are things that need to be rectified. And I am left with that, with which I believe that the will of everyone and everyone is to maintain the system, to improve it as much as possible, but I do not think that the adoption of new instruments will solve that chaos that the proposer was talking about, much less; I believe that trying to include new plans does not solve it because the paper admits it all. – I have said it many times – and what I think needs to be done is that what we have in place and can allow for progress, to be implemented as soon as possible and in the most coordinated way possible, so that the system can continue to move forward. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The discussion is over and we'll go to the vote. We'll vote together for Podemos. EH Collect the midpath correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u100	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u101	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition, as the Parlamentary P.P.I., of all the stages of education, of childish education, of the first and second degree, of high school, of the measures to be taken about the diabetes of the same kind. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Group, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Well, since it's the last point, I hope it's short, and anyway, as we've got the signed deal unanimously, I hope there's no replication. First, I want to thank all the groups for their efforts here, and especially as the chief departments are here, the head physician of health and the chief physician of the Board of Education. I know they've made special efforts to get this deal out. I think it's a good deal. It was necessary to oppose this subject, and to set up the measures which we have agreed on in the future, I think it will be good to repair the weaknesses or privations which are in question. As I said, the aim of this initiative is to alleviate the care deficit of children and adolescents suffering from type I diabetes, especially in the territories of Álava and Gipuzkoa, because, surprisingly, we find that this reality is being addressed in the historical territory of Bizkaia. This group and this Member, in particular, became aware of this news as a result of certain information which appeared in various media, and, well, I had the opportunity to contact the Association of Diabetes in Álava, ADA, which, of course, I would like to thank for all the information provided, and also for the comprehensive explanations given here, which gave us here, in the Commission, two days ago, in the Health Committee, about the problems faced by children with type I diabetes in school. They spoke especially of the problems at school, but specifically at the time of meals, of the insulin doses related to meals, of the control of the subsequent intake, of the time of the verification of whether the intake of carbohydrates is adequate in quantity, and above all allow a possible hypoglycemia. And in all this they act in a very important way variables such as the sports practice that the child has done, or the mobility that he has had throughout that day: if he has made an excursion, if he has been more seated... Ultimately, these issues also affect the dose to be administered and the development of the entire process. In short, they are children who, therefore, require absolutely personalized attention. It is clear that we must give personal attention to children with diabetes of the kind of diabetes, and this was made clear here in every explanation given by the ADA Association. We also have to say that type I diabetes has nothing to do with type II diabetes. It has its own specificities; it has nothing to do with life habits; it is an autoimmune, chronic disease; it requires thorough, accurate, continuous follow-up 24 hours a day; and there is no specific dose to be administered at any given time. We are therefore talking about the special educational health needs of these children at school, which we can say at present in Álava and Gipuzkoa are not covered. Not to mention the impact on families of these characteristics, the family impact, the neglect of children in school. Thus, it must be said that families suffer, that they have to go personally to care for children at this sensitive time of food; that many children are forced to change schools; that parents, in order to care for their children, have to reduce their hours, reduce their holidays, even leave work. We are talking, according to data from the Basque Government, although we believe that there are more cases, but according to data provided to us by the Basque Government in successive parliamentary responses, there are 106 children throughout the geography of Euskadi. And we must also say that, in studying this issue, we have found that regulation is also somewhat obsolete; its revision is necessary. We are talking about a protocol of 2006, which says that attention is paid to the voluntary nature of the faculty, and, if it is not given, exceptional measures are envisaged, but this specific issue has not been fulfilled. One of the issues we want to change through this initiative is the willingness of teachers to care for these children. Adequate training is needed in the personnel who care for these children with type I diabetes. And we also have to say that the instruction of the jantokis We have collected the requests of the association and put forward a non-legislative proposal, but I would also like to refer to the broad agreement signed by all the groups, to which I reiterate the thanks, the efforts made, especially those groups that support the Government and, in particular, the departments involved, such as the Department of Health and the Department of Education. We therefore ask specifically to amend this circular, and we also ask to ensure at all stages of education that individualized care, normalized access to the dining room in conditions such as those of the rest of the pupils and that adequate care is guaranteed throughout school hours. To this end, we are talking about organizing, planning for such adequate human resources that are properly trained for insulin administration and monitoring of type I diabetes intake before food or at other times when it may be necessary, and that these children have the right accompaniment. Another issue that we were also called for was to individually adjust the regular menu to the medical pattern of carbohydrate ration for each child. And, on the other hand, we also think it convenient that, when we are talking about children, but, obviously, children are getting older, and those children must also be taught to be self-sufficient and also to manage their own disease. And, therefore, we have also asked that customized plans be developed for each child, and that he/she learn. Obviously, a young child cannot make decisions on his or her own; that is why we need a properly trained person to accompany him or her in the many circumstances surrounding this pathology. But, to the extent possible, that child, as it grows older, who also manages his own disease. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe from the Group of the European People's Party that apart from the scope for improved care in these children, I would like to dwell on a number of points. I believe that this initiative, with the measures that are being taken, makes the treatment and care of these children more fair and, above all, the necessary care and care that these children need. He spoke of justice, because we believe that there is now clear discrimination, because we were already aware of the testimony of the association that these children, in such circumstances, were being cared for in the territory of Bizkaia, of the voluntarity of a team of nurses who were moving from health centres to schools to help these children at the time of the meal. Therefore, we understand that, if we talked about equity, a principle that presides over health very clearly, we could not talk about equity when we were seeing that children in Bizkaia were being cared for and children in Álava and Gipuzkoa were not being properly cared for. And, on the other hand, we also have to say that there is already an experience in the Community of Madrid, an experience that has been launched for a long time, where care is given not only to these children, but to the rest of the children who present some problem and have some need for specific care, with the figure of the school nurse, who moves to the schools when necessary. Well, ultimately, through this initiative, we ask for that equal treatment in the school canteens of all the Basque schools and cover the care deficit that currently exists. To this end, we propose, apart from, as I said, amending the 2006 circular, to draw up a protocol between the Departments of Education and Health; to ensure the coverage of children with type I diabetes; to allocate, as we said, the necessary human resources properly trained, that personalized care; and to also focus on coordination. We therefore believe that, with all these measures, we will be able to remedy absolutely the deficits that currently exist in the care of these children in the territories of Álava and Gipuzkoa. And, well, to conclude, I thank again the efforts of all groups, especially the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the advisers who run the Departments of Education and Health. And I just wish that, since there is a need for an urgent response, these measures, as far as possible, will be implemented as soon as possible; and that families can therefore be satisfied and reassured that when they leave their children in schools, in the jantokis That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u103	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u104	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, lehendakari, counselor and counselors, colleagues and companions. You know that I am convinced that this and the many other problems we work on health policies are susceptible to consensus and to organizing a great pact in defence of Basque public health by all the parliamentary groups in this House. I have commented several times; I insist now: they are very sensitive policies. We have a good system, and organizing it and deepening it in its quality and democracy concerns us all. We are therefore pleased that there has again been consensus on this point of health policy, which has to do with a community orientation of our primary care services. Only three very brief reflections, for the time it is, so as not to bore you. Everyone knows what diabetes is: increased blood sugar, which is called hyperglycaemia, and whose regulation corresponds to a hormone called insulin, which is done in the beta cells of the pancreas, an organ that is under and behind the stomach. In type I diabetes, our own body attacks, attacks, distorts the ability of the beta cells of the pancreas to produce insulin; therefore, a permanent control of blood glucose or sugar is required, and a permanent control of the insulin dose to be introduced. This is an issue that has been discussed internationally. And up to the level of autonomy and self-management in health, which is the goal for these patients to perfectly manage their own glycemia control, their own control of insulin introduction permanently, because obviously it takes a while. And as type I diabetes mellitus is a disease that affects children and adolescents, although not only type I diabetes, there is a period in the life of the child or girl in which he or she needs help. This period is the school period. I am not going to repeat what Mrs Garrido, Mrs Laura, has already proposed and will raise others and others, because we have been discussing this in the Osasun Batzordea, in the Health Committee for a long time, and with the association of diabetics. I've also had the pleasure of being with my Bizkaia colleagues, because it's not the same. So, three very brief reflections, and I sit down. The first one. Some of the clumsiness of some of Osakidetza's officials causes these kinds of problems. A person responsible for Osakidetza cannot respond to an association of parents of children diagnosed with type I diabetes that this does not fit into Osakidetza's portfolio of services. It's a bureaucratic answer. This isn't my deal. How are you not going to be negotiated by type I diabetic patients, children or adolescents, who live in Vitoria? How are they not going to be Osakidetza's responsibility? What did the director think, or whoever he was, that he had thus responded to the association of the parents of these children, that this kind of discussion would not have consequences? It does not enter the service portfolio of Osakidetza. It is a mistake, and it has caused us to be here at 3:30 p.m. discussing this issue, and it has caused us to meet with the association several times, and it has caused the Health Commission to devote two and a half hours, almost three hours, to discussing this issue. It's a clumsy thing to do. Second thought. There are some leaders in Osakidetza who think that the effective action of Osakidetza ends up in the consultation, in a quality consultation, effective, pleasant in the hospital; in this case, in the endocrinology service of the University Hospital of Álava; or in the consultation of the doctor or family doctor at the health center. Consultation, treatment, complementary diagnostic tests, point and end. We are not people in the hospital and in the centre other than when we are in Parliament, different from when we are in the ikastola, different from when we are at work, different from when we are in leisure time. We are the same person, then Osakidetza necessarily has to organize the community orientation of this attention. The life of Osakidetza, the responsibility of Osakidetza and its professionals does not end in the consultation. Community spaces are part of our responsibility. And third thought. If I, as a parliamentarian, have to read the strategic lines of Osakidetza –extraordinary document–, the strategic lines of the Department of Health –extraordinary document–, the Oncological Plan of Euskadi – good document–, the Strategic Plan of Primary Care that will be presented to us in the near future by the adviser – good document – why not read it also by the leaders of Osakidetza of the OSI? And they will realize what integral care means, comprehensive approach to the disease, health promotion policies, prevention policies. And so we all speak the same language and do not waste time with this nonsense. We all agree with this non-law proposal, non-law proposal that should never have reached this plenary, and less so at this time. We believe that a fundamental reorientation in community terms of the health actions of Osakidetza and the department, and a good coordination in multisectoral policies that have to do with the health levels of our people, with our type I diabetic boys and girls, are very appropriate because they are our responsibility, no longer of Osakidetza, but of the public administration as a whole. And a problem that does not occur in Bizkaia, and, when it does, a case management commission is set up between each other and is resolved, for the good doing of the education inspectors and for the good doing of the people of Primary Care and the endocrine of Cruces. Why not in Alava? Because a leader has emerged who has considered bureaucracy to be the central element in explaining to affected associations what they should and should not do. No, man, no. The bureaucracy does not; health policies with people in the center – right, lehendakari? – with people in the center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u106	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. We will discuss this last point of this union by means of a society, because we have known so many problems through the combination of the diabetics of the Arabs. The day before yesterday, this association explained to us at the Medical Committee the situation which children with diabetes are suffering in the schools. For any child, to have a chronic illness is not easy, because he has to learn how to endure a disease all his life, but diabetes of the kind is not a chronic disease: these children ought every two hours to measure the degree of gloss which they have in their blood, and according to this degree they ought to conform to the amount of nutriment, or the kind of nutriment they have to take. As we remarked on the board, when the nices and diets are controlled at home, there's no big problem. The point is, when they eat in schools, they do not require the safety of health, or find certain difficulties in making insulin-fogs. In fact, children with diabetes must have special and custom attention until autonomy is enough. And be careful: When we speak of autonomy, we must consider that we are talking about the children of 2, 4, 6, or 8 years old, and the children of these ages are incapable of taking this complicated disease into autonomy. After the Arab Diabetes Association's appearance in the Commission two days ago and the presentation made by other groups, including the proposing group, we believe that there is no need to describe the reasons that led us to discuss this issue in plenary. Furthermore, we believe that the need to implement the measures we have agreed and signed in the compromise amendment is more than justified. And if another question remained more than clear to us after ADA's appearance, it is precisely the contradiction that exists between the official data that the department has passed to this parliamentarian through a battery of written questions that we put to the Department of Education, between those data and those that handle the families of children with type I diabetes. There are dances of figures and arguments that are not really understood. And I'll put some examples in telegraph so I don't get too long. According to the Board of Education, Araban is exactly the same as that of the children in the Bazay and Gipuz. According to the Society, more services in Biscay, and consequently more attention are paid. In the same way, after we have examined the data the head section has given us, we can see that there are six children who get a special attention. There are, then, some differences in relation to the country. On the other hand, according to the official answers, in three countries a nurse goes to school for a while, at first to make techniques, and then to see that she does these techniques without trouble. When the children and guardians think they have sufficient abilities, the nurse does not come back, she does not go back to school. They don't know that protocol in the Society, and even if their children have had contact with any nurse, it has always been owing to their approach to a medical center. And anyway, I'm sure you don't see the schoolkeeper's role, and you don't even know how many kids are at school with the disease of the diabetes. According to the health department, I'm 106 diabetics and 10 years below. This data, again, is contradictory; we do not understand it. Therefore, if we do not know with official data in hand how many children with type I diabetes live in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa; if we do not even know how many of them and of them are in school and in which centers; if we do not know how many people have to attend individually, because this type of disease requires it, then how will we know with certainty what measures and what resources to put on the table? That is why, first of all, it is important to clarify the data. As far as protocols are concerned, the Department of Education refers us to this circular on special health care in school hours of 2006. As we said in the Commission, for us this protocol is obsolete and insufficient, because, among other things, this protocol requires the individual attention of these children to the willingness of the staff of the educational institutions. And, in case there's no volunteer staff at that center, what happens? Is a nurse going? A nurse? Does your family care?... Don't you? Why are these inequalities between one centre and another? And, in the event that they accept the willingness to care for those boys and girls, assisted by the staff of the centre themselves, what happens to their responsibility? Diabetes is not a disease that is resolved or that is treated by taking a pill. These diabetic boys and girls, depending on how they have their day, depending on the exercise they have done, depending on whether they are on an excursion or on the jantoki Well, reading carefully all those responses that the Government has passed on to us, we have come to the conclusion that the Government admits that these health, educational and social circumstances can be a challenge in establishing coordination mechanisms, and, in addition, it also admits the problem that exists in therapeutic situations such as these, serious – as I said – that can lead to hypoglycaemia, hyperglycemia; it would add, even, decompensations that can often end up in a diabetic coma. The Government has therefore provided us with contradictory data in this case. They admit that there is a problem, and that's good, but we haven't seen solutions coming up either. So, in front of this photograph, the parliamentary groups have taken action, and this work has produced its fruits. We've signed a deal, all of us, to establish rights that don't guarantee those children. Thanks to that agreement, I'll have to make a new protocol for all children with diabetes of my kind to guarantee health in every education and the kind of food they need for their illness. As I have always said, as you have the right of correction, I will not enter into details. Just to finish, and already seeing that this is the last point of today's plenary, before, in addition to an election campaign, I want to emphasize that we have agreed on two departments like Health and Education – it is a lot – to all the House's spokespersons. I think it is important to stress that on a day like today we come to an agreement unanimously, because it is, moreover, what the people who went to appear, representatives of the association, asked us; they told us that, on such a sensitive issue as this, we tried to bridge the political differences and reach an agreement. For our part, therefore, we welcome the agreement. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u108	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Little can be said of those who are going to intervene after the groups, in this case the opposition. Those who appeared the other day in the Health Committee, I believe that they had held meetings with the various parliamentary groups and, indeed, had explained to us what is involved on a day-to-day basis, not only of children suffering from type I diabetes, but also the concern that families have with this control every two hours during the day and night so that these children do not suffer irreversible consequences. Indeed, this is a disease, as has been said here, irreversible, chronic, which requires control throughout the day and throughout a lifetime and which, in fact, causes families to have to be involved; of course, the patient; teaching teams in educational institutions; and also non-teaching teams working in schools, in this case in the jantokis. Therefore, once the mothers who came to Parliament were heard in this case, from the Socialist Group we understood that their requests were reasonable, logical and we understood that they could be taken over by the departments of health and education, because they certainly facilitated the lives of these children and, moreover, they enforced that principle of equality within the schools. And we say the principle of equality because it is true that the reality today in educational institutions has changed. In this matter of concern to them that it was food, schools have been adapting to the different realities, and, in the same way that a child who is celiac is made an individualized menu and attends to that diet he needs, or because of culture there are foods that there are children who do not eat, or the case of multi-allergic children, who also have every day their menu in schools to be adapted to their own needs, of course, we understood that the case of a type I diabetes patient could not be left out of that service offered by the department, in this case of Education, which is to feed thousands of children every day in the Basque Country. As I say, we understood that everything they put forward was possible to agree on by all the parliamentary groups, and indeed, as Mrs Blanco concluded, it was important that this initiative should be voted unanimously in this House. It's true that we are..., I was going to say on the eve; no, shortly after starting an election campaign. But not only because of that, but because I believe that for this kind of thing it is what politics is basically for, which is to facilitate the lives of citizens. This group presented to the different parliamentary groups the non-law proposal that Mrs Garrido is proposing to us today. They explained the different points to us; in fact, the original initiative was what they demanded, and I think we were able to arrive at a text in which we all felt comfortable. Therefore, if I had to highlight something of everything that was said there, it is true that the subject of voluntarity does worry, because it cannot be that in a school, in the end, a child is subject to the decision or not to be able to do so, not so much because they do not want to, but because, in fact, the responsibility they assume is very important and, moreover, has important consequences. And then also the issue of territorial differences. Indeed, we are a small autonomous community, but there can be no difference of these minors in the educational institutions of Bizkaia, which have a privileged situation, with respect to the Alaves and Gipuzcoans. I therefore conclude by congratulating ourselves on the agreement, and I am not going to intervene in my second round, and I therefore wish all the luck of the world to Josune Gorospe and Luke, who I understand will change the stage and will continue to contribute everything that they have of course contributed to this House. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u109	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs, members of the legislature, good noon to all. When a child starts with type I diabetes, which is the great unknown within diabetes, there is a total change in his or her life and that of his or her family, because it involves almost total care and care and controls that until then were unknown to his or her entire environment. I will not explain what type I diabetes consists of, because Mr Uria has already done it perfectly as a professional who is, but they need insulin for life, and, in addition, they also have to measure the amounts of carbohydrates they consume in each meal, taking into account different aspects that affect their day-to-day life, such as physical exercise. They must therefore face a process of adaptation to the disease, because they will live with it their whole lives, because it is an irreversible disease. The goal is for the patient and his/her nearest environment to quickly acquire the knowledge to manage the disease and its treatment; to ultimately achieve autonomy and self-control in diabetes from early stages, as a self-care task, as also advised by the World Health Organization. On Tuesday we had a chance to listen to the mothers of their children who have that diabetes, who are members of the Diabetes Club. These minors had given us difficulties in their everyday life, and we knew the case of a mother who had to go to school to measure the amount of food from her daughter's gloss and the menu. Of course, we understand his demands, and the consequences of his life and his daughter's health affairs. But we understand that these are isolated cases, since the Basque public education system guarantees access to education for all people alike. Currently, there are 106 children with diabetes under the age of 10 who are cared for. It is an objective data, registered, because they receive treatment. And they are served in schools, according to that circular of 2006, which has been mentioned here, of special health care during school hours, in which the staff in charge assist minors on a voluntary basis. From our group, we also consider that the circular needs an update. That is why we approved in point one that amendment of the circular, in order to bring it into line with the new reality that has obviously changed, since we are not in the scenario that existed in 2006. We recognize that this is an area to be improved, but we must also stress that Osakidetza is a system that has always served all people with diabetes with quality and equity. It has even taken pioneering measures, such as the continuous real-time glucose monitoring system, for diabetics under 18 years of age, which avoids punctures prior to insulin administration. With the sensor patch that is placed on the skin, you get a lot of data and results that reach you almost immediately to the mobile phone and allows you to make decisions and avoid further problems with your disease. This system was also recently extended to pregnant women. In Euskadi, there are also small children who use the insulin pump. It is a mechanical device that can release insulin similar to the pancreas. That is, a demonstration that Osakidetza is always at the forefront, acquiring the latest developments that allow the improvement of the quality of life for its patients. And another of the projects that he has in progress are the workshops "Careing my diabetes", where they learn to acquire autonomy in the care of the disease, to take responsibility for health and to know better all aspects of that disease. With regard to the non-legislative proposal, we have finally reached a compromise agreement with all the groups, which I too appreciate all the good disposition we have had. And because, well, we believe in the end that this is an important matter for the families who came the other day, and that they told us all their problems, which we are trying to solve today. For our group, the fundamental thing is that coordination between the Department of Health and the Department of Education, which allows measures to be taken to care for these children and these children and to enable them to take control of their disease. Without repeating too much, I will try to summarise the agreement we have reached, and on the second point we are talking about organizing adequate and trained resources for the care of these children with regard to insulin administration. In the third, that this daily menu is adjusted to the medical pattern, because for them it is necessary to have the proper ration, since their diet is one of those main care that carries this disease. The autonomy plans reflected in the fourth point are also important for achieving full independence of minors as soon as possible, because, as soon as possible, they know the management of their own disease and their self-control, so it will be more comfortable and more natural for them. We have also agreed that, as indicated in paragraph 5, the staff assisting these minors should be trained. And something interesting too: a reception protocol for new staff to know how to care for them from the very first moment. And finally, give that individualized and tailored response to the situation of every child that may currently be uncovered. Each and every one of them has its particularities and needs, and therefore has to be done individually. With this compromise amendment it has been shown that we all want to continue to make progress in the care of all types of minor patients, and it is clear the will of this Parliament, but also of the Department of Health and Education, to continue to make progress in improving the quality of these patients. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Anybody want to talk? No. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote at the Basque popular, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH Collectors, and the Eubertarians signed semi-correction by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-09.u112	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-nine.
