ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'll tell you, the first point will be at the fourth point, and we'll start with the fourth point. Forth point on the theme list: "To collect the proposition as to the law of Parliament, concerning setting up the minimum pay of 1,200 euros in the land of the EAE. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Casanova, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u1	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I'll have to apologize to the spokesman in the name of my team for this final change. I myself have just come to understand, and there are strong reasons for this, when I shall explain them to you afterwards, but in any case, it obliges us to lose some time in the preparation of discourses, and therefore I beg your pardon. And, going into the point, going into the matter, I'm going to start this non-law proposition about the rise of the minimum wage telling a story, as I usually do. Imagine that we live on the banks of a river,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u2	Quiet, please. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u3	... a river from which we drink drinking water, which moves the mill of the village, and suddenly there is a drought; it spends a lot of time without rain, and, little by little, the river, logically, goes dry, until the flow runs out. Logically, expectations lead us to think that when it rains again, the river will come down full of water, we will drink again and use the mill again. However, the rains begin again, and the river remains dry, at least a pint of water. What's going on? We continue to trust that the rains will renew the flow of the river, but it continues to rain and the river remains dry. We're going to investigate what's going on up there, and we realize that, in the time of drought, someone has made a clandestine take, an illegal take up water above the river, and is diverting the channel; and therefore, no matter how much it rains, the river is not going to bring water back to our people. That's a little bit of what happened to the economic crisis. Indeed, there was a problem of decline; indeed, there was an economic collapse in almost all societies on the planet, and the expectation was that, when growth returned, that when GDP grew again, then the waters would flow down and the water would be more or less generously distributed, because even before the crisis things were not perfect. But GDP has risen, growth has returned, and yet the river continues to decline quite thinly. Why? Because there have been those who have taken advantage of the situation, who have taken advantage of the crisis to make an illegal take of resources upstream, to drain the river from resources and to pocket an increasing flow of the wealth that is generated. These are the famous structural changes we experienced during the crisis. Applying the doctrine of shock and telling us that this is what there is, they have been imposing, regulation after regulation, increasingly unfair legislation, which made the burden of the crisis fall on the shoulders of the working majority. And if when there was drought, it was up to us to tighten our belts, now that it seems to be raining, now that there is economic growth, it seems that it is still up to us to tighten our belts, because structural reforms persist, and those reforms are not going to change per se. And this is what we wish to do with the proposal we have brought to-day: To reduce the resistance, resist the beauties which increase the differences, to resist the beauties of the rich, and to favor the majority in favor of the majority. Today we propose to mark from a new minimum of salary in our autonomical community. We believe that in our society, in our own country, social conditions require a minimum of salary beyond what is in the Spanish State. We have proposed for some reasons to go to 1,200 euros, starting for the minimum pay of 1,200. Why 1200 euros here? For the first time, this would be the result of adaptation from the minimum pay in the Spanish State to our social conditions. In the Spanish state, he's been up to 900 euros lately, and we think that, according to our degree of life, our social condition, we should go up at 33,3%. Why? In the Spanish state, crude internal exploitation of each inhabitant is approximately 25,000 euros, and ours is 33,000 euros. So here, the social situation is better, the cost of life is even higher, things are more expensive, and if already in the Spanish State there is a minimum of wages and you are placed at the edge of poverty, the workers who receive minimum wages in the Basque Country are a third more poor than the workers who are in a state equal to the Spaniards. So we think that we must adapt this salary, and we must take a step to adopt our social reality by climbing a third. There is also another reason why we put the figures of 1,200 euros on the table: The Social Letter of Europe demands his 4th. that in the article there should be minimum wages in all societies, and that these small sums should be sufficient to keep a decent life. This concept, worthy life, has been given more exact dates later, and according to the interpretational criteria of the letter, it must be at least a minimum pay to guarantee a worthy life, at least 60% of the average salary. So if in our community our average salary is approximately 2,000 euros, it would be 60, 1200 euros. And if there is a third reason to ask that we have 1,200 euros here: because the principal unions, the principal representatives of the euscal workers, have long since demanded it, and because it is one of the principal accusations of these social agents, the minimum salary of 1,200 euros. So, to adapt our social social condition to the European letter, and to answer the claim of workers, we think we ought to take steps along the road to the minimum salary of 1,200. How can we do that? The first question is clear: there is no legislative power in this chamber to establish a minimum of pay by decree or law. That's Madrid's manual, and we're aware of that. We don't like it, and we demand that, in the building of euskal intercourse, we bring here, too, a handful of hands about the minimum pay, to have the power of deciding the societies of euscals on their minimum salary. But for the moment, unfortunately, that's not the case, and we have to work it out in front of the legal reality we've got to deal with. That doesn't mean we don't have a chance to do things, and what we're proposing today is a way of doing things, legal, capable way, possible. We propose two steps, two paths to go. On the one hand, we demand the administration, that minimum salary of 1,200 euros, de facto de facto. There is another way, which would affect a greater number of workmen for good: "Essunka, the Chamber's initiative to promote a business agreement, an agreement between parties and social differences, in which there would be a settled agreement, too, that de facto. We have this power, and we may make bargains between such professions. For two years ago, a trade between the structure of a collective negotiation was made. This has a legal basis: In the 83 and 83.3 articles of the Common-wealth of Workers, the ability to make such Covenants between the Offices is observed. So this is perfectly possible and legal. But we think that certain social motives require an impulse to make such commitments. And when I say so many operators, I mean the patriarchal, the unions would be willing to sign such an agreement, but the patriarchal is not ready. For this purpose we think that a Government invested with the moral force of this Chamber and the Chamber ought to perform its duty in order to bring the patrician to such an agreement. Unfortunately, this will not be possible, because the Social Party, the Popular Party, and the Eunctarian Party, will vote against them; they will again play ostriches, and they will reject their responsibility. While in the French State, with a gross domestic product per capita of 35,000 euros, the minimum wage is almost 1,500 euros; and in the United Kingdom, with 36,000 GDP per capita, the minimum wage is 1,400, here in Euskal Herria, with 33,000 euros GDP per capita, i.e. virtually the same figures, we have a minimum wage of 1,050. Just a few points of differential in GDP per capita, but thirty percent less minimum wage. The difference between Irún and Hendaya is almost 400, 500 euros in salary, and perhaps the difference between Irún and Hendaya is the one we are seeing these days on the streets of France, or these weeks or months, with the people on the mobilised street, asking for things, and with a government that, instead of prosecuting yellow vests for rebellion, instead of repressing them and declaring the state of emergency, a right-wing government – which, by the way, does also take the police out on the street – but that first thing he did was to say, "Let's see what these people are asking for and let's approve a package of social measures." That makes the right in the French state. Of course, the founding act of the modern French Republic was to cut off a king's head, while the national sport in the Kingdom of Spain is to suck the alpargates to another king, and so things go to one side and another side of the Muga. Because it is true that in recent years Basque workers have regained a little, a little purchasing power, and a little collective bargaining has resumed, but that has not been under any of the concepts, in any way, by the incidence and influence of this Government, of a Government that has not only turned its back on those demands, but has, in most cases, opposed them at the front. Every time in this country the workers stand up to claim their rights and there is a call for strike or some kind of mobilization, we hear the voice of the shift counselor or the shift counselor saying that this harms the image of the country, that this is taking to not know who as hostages, that this harms the economy. The workers are regaining, very slowly and very expensively, spaces thanks to their struggle, and, while the Government not only does not support them, it not only turns its back on them, it not only puts itself on a profile, but, in most cases, directly aligns itself with the employer. And then we have what we have. The Orkestra Institute, in its 2018 report on competitiveness, said – he spoke before about the per capita domestic product – that with our per capita domestic product we are the 34th region of almost 300 European regions, and that among the group of reference regions similar to the Basque Autonomous Community, with which the Orkestra Institute makes comparisons, we are the fifth of 30. However, when we go to disposable income, that is, not the wealth that is generated, but the wealth that really comes into the pockets of people in this country, we find ourselves at the 88th place among the European regions; among the advanced regions with which we want to compare, the 27th of 30. Because there is a problem of redistribution of wealth. "Casually" – between quotes, "casually" – the region of this country that best redistributes wealth and has a higher disposable income per capita is Debagoiena, which is the cradle of co-operativeism, where things are better distributed. There is a problem of sharing wealth, and that problem is a major problem for this country. We are talking today about the minimum wage, the size of the food plate that is placed on the table of the second most disadvantaged group of people in this country; the most disadvantaged would, of course, be those who are unemployed or excluded, but then those who receive the minimum wage come. This is something you can't turn your back on; this is something you can't say is not competition; this is not something you can say that the Basque Government can't do anything about it. This is also a direct responsibility of the institutions of this country, although we do not have direct competence over the minimum wage, because we have put on the table legal and feasible ways to take steps in the right direction. Basque workers are 3% poorer now than when the crisis began. A few weeks ago, the Deputy Councillor for Employment and Youth appeared here to assume that the minimum wage of young people in this country had for the first time exceeded EUR 1,000. To me comes to mind that of Cicero: "O tempora, o mors". It seems that the government, instead of wanting to transform things, wants people to adapt, and try to convince them that things are going well. But things aren't going well. Things are not going well, and the role of this government is that things are going well. The Government has a formula that addresses all problems, a double formula; the Government is always concerned and trusts that things will happen. It could be done up to a form, because it always answers the same: the Government is concerned that Siemens buys Gamesa, and trusts that Gamesa will remain a Basque company; the Government is concerned about the situation in La Naval, and trusts that an investor will appear; the Government is concerned that a foreign company will buy Euskaltel, and trusts that it will remain a company in the country. But the Basque Government is not to be concerned and to trust. That's what mothers and fathers are for, to worry about, to trust their children. The Basque Government is the executive, and the Basque Government is about to do things. The Basque Government cannot tell us that it is concerned about low wages and that it trusts that wages will rise. The Basque Government must commit itself to making things happen. And I, as I often say, cannot demand success from the Basque Government in its projects, but I can do so. And I believe that the Basque Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, and, unfortunately, the Socialist Party too...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u4	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u5	... they are turning their backs on one of the most needy groups in this society, refusing to move towards de facto establishment Everyone will have to give their responsibility, but I think this makes it difficult for them to look at the faces of these groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u7	Good morning, congressmen. From the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, the truth is that we think that the initiative and the transaction we have reached with the proposing group, with the EH Bildu group, is – I am going to say – a very good initiative, which is why, in a sense, we might feel somewhat sad about the fact that it will not go forward, since it will only have the support of the groups that have subscribed to the transaction – the left part, politically speaking, of the House. But, at the same time, I think we can be satisfied because I think it is a powerful, interesting initiative that affects the material living conditions of the working people of our people. I have not just shared too much the metaphor that Mr Casanova has explained to us. I believe that the flow of the river has fallen short in recent years is not due to weather conditions. We think, and we have explained this more than once, that they have been established in the last decade, not only in the case of Euskadi, not only in the case of the Spanish State, a series of deliberate policies to undertake a transfer of capital from the working class to the capitalists or to the ruling classes or as you wish to call them. And a number of policies have been developed that, in the case of our country, have been driven primarily by the hand of the People's Party, but to a large extent also by the hand of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party at first, which have come to establish a new socio-economic reality, a new socio-economic reality that is intended to be definitively established. I do not, therefore, share the expectation that at some point the flow of the river would fall again with force. The intention was, precisely, to leave the flow of the river of the working class, of the majority of the people of the country – workers and workers – to leave it scarce, to guarantee the rates of profit of capital. This is a conviction that we have from our coalition, but, indeed, from the left we have to fight and fight to reverse that situation. Among other things, even because we are aware that a society without a minimum of social cohesion is a society without a future. And it is true, as Mr Casanova has already said, that the loss of purchasing power suffered by the workers in our country is therefore important. And we are not just saying it by the left forces and organisations, and not just by the trade union organisations; it has been said in this Parliament in committee by bodies such as the ESC, by bodies such as the CRL, that I believe they are hardly suspected of being bodies acting on either side. And, moreover, we – if I remember correctly – last time, we had the opportunity to ask the ESC directly when it appeared in committee, and, indeed, it was telling us that this loss of purchasing power resulted in a transfer of capital from income from labour to income from capital. Therefore, it is not a leftist discourse; it is not a discourse that we can only subscribe to the organizations we claim from the left. That is why we find it very interesting to have an initiative such as this, which sets out a series of parameters in order to set, at least, objectives so that in our country the working classes can have decent wages, which are wages in line with the concrete, socio-economic reality of our country so that people can have a decent life and so that the whole of society can have social cohesion and we can have the dignity of calling ourselves a society. In addition, I think the initiative has few hits – then we will listen to the arguments of both the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party – but, in my opinion, it has few hits to be rejected. And, in particular, I urge the Socialist Party. I believe that this is a text that few arguments can have, in my opinion, the Socialist Party to reject it, with formulas, moreover, I believe, open enough to be approved. I refer to the wording. "The Basque Parliament considers it urgent to compensate for the loss of purchasing power." Consider it urgent to compensate. "It considers it essential to link the minimum wage with social reality." Consider; it is a statement. "The Basque Parliament states that our socio-economic reality and the recommendations of European bodies should give rise to a salary of 1,200 euros", a guaranteed minimum wage which is a formula that we included in our amendment, aware that we cannot establish an interprofessional minimum wage here. And, in our view, not only because it cannot legally be, because it is a State competence, but also because, by conviction, we are in favour of an interprofessional minimum wage for the whole State as a guarantee of equality between workers from different points and from different nations of the State. That is why we included this guaranteed minimum wage formula, because what we do believe is that, moreover, there are sufficient legal tools through, mainly, collective bargaining, so that, in this case, an autonomous community can establish what we have called guaranteed minimum wage, which would be that in this community there would be no wages below that figure. "The Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government to show its support for this issue and calls on administrations to use the legal mechanisms available to guarantee it." He asks them nothing of the other world; simply, to use the legal mechanisms, those that already exist, to guarantee them. Finally, "the Basque Parliament considers it necessary to acquire certain competences that will enable the construction of a framework of labour relations in line with the socio-economic reality of the country". And to establish a minimum wage higher than the state, because, as I was saying, it is important for us also to maintain interterritorial cohesion and solidarity between the different territories. It considers the acquisition necessary. Therefore, all the points of the compromise, of the text that is going to be debated, I sincerely believe that they could be taken up by this House, and I sincerely believe that they could be taken up by all the organisations on the left, at least in this House. We will, of course, listen carefully to the arguments of those who reject this initiative, but it seems to us that there are no arguments, of course, either legal or legal, to reject it. It is simply going to be a matter of political intentions. What is contained here is perfectly consumable, and the Basque Government can perfectly assume a transaction like this. Nothing from the other world is being asked of him, but we know that the Basque Government is shaking its legs, or it is not among its intentions, ever, to go to the employer when it comes to establishing issues that have to do with working conditions. And we know that they will refer us to that they have to settle between employers and trade unions. And I'll tell them again, as on so many occasions, that yes, they have to settle that between them. They will have the last word, but this is a Parliament, a Parliament which represents the sovereignty of our Autonomous Community and which can manifest itself politically by making this series of political considerations, which give rise to us, as Parliament, to tell society that we need to improve wages in our country in order to guarantee the living conditions of our people and to guarantee a society which, in fact, has social cohesion, and that when we talk about social cohesion is not merely rhetorical. The figure of the 1,200 euros is not an invented figure. Mr Casanova also explained this. The minimum wage in our country for GDP, for example, is at the back of Europe. And, therefore, we have room to improve wages, and we need to improve wages. Otherwise, that new reality will be established which I spoke of at the beginning and which some claim to be established. An impoverished working class that's the norm.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u9	Some mate has left the bowl; I close it so he can pick it up later. Well, it presents EH Bildu a non-law proposition with four questions, because we start from the original text. Then there is a transaction whose final text we have no knowledge of, at least until you have said now that we have a transaction. We tried to reach an agreement yesterday afternoon. It was not possible, because we do not give up certain issues that we do not share – you do the same. We don't share. The original proposal is based on four issues: the inter-professional minimum wage, the minimum wage in public contracts, the contract wage and the Basque inter-professional wage, the Basque inter-professional minimum wage. All this is justified by the proponent on the basis that one of the most important functions of public policies must be to agree and implement the relevant measures, to use the tools we have to reverse job insecurity. And then, as the first of these tools, he quotes the fixing of the interprofessional minimum wage. And see, Mr Casanova and Mr Hernández, that in this they coincide with the Socialists. A coincidence that, in our case, not only starts to coincide in words from a rostrum – in this case, from the rostrum of the Basque Parliament – but that we have it so internalized that just three months, three months ago, the socialist government, led by President Pedro Sánchez, has agreed on the largest increase in the interprofessional minimum wage in 41 years, an increase of 22.30 %. For 2019, the interprofessional minimum wage is set at EUR 12,600 per year, EUR 900 per month if we consider it at 14 pay. The interprofessional minimum wage, of course, affects workers who receive the lowest wages; an increase of EUR 164 per month, this will benefit 2.6 million workers, 15% of all employees. And it is true, that it is a salary that suffered a significant loss of purchasing power between 2010 and 2017, in that story that has told us about the rivers that had been punctured at the top. Well, it may be that, between 2010 and 2017, this instrument of social cohesion had also been pinned on it, because, during this period, the nominal increases of the SMI were almost imperceptible; they rose at a rate of less than 10 euros a year, they accumulated in 8 years only an increase of 74 euros, so the decision that has been taken by the Socialist Government of Spain is absolutely necessary from the point of view of social justice, from that distribution of water, from that justification that the increase in GDP makes it necessary for us to recover that source that the crisis caused it to descend. That is the instrument that we had on the left, on the House, on the left side of the House – I believe Mr Hernández has said – and that left House in the Congress of Deputies, which is where they have this tool, in the Government of the nation, which is where they have this tool, is where it has been used. We cannot argue, and that is true, that the role played by the SMI is important in terms of improving the conditions of the weakest in the recruitment chain, nor should we continue to take firm steps so that we can get close to that 60% of the average wage set by the European Social Charter. The truth is that the Socialists do not discuss this, we do not discuss these mandates, and we are not going to get mixed up either, because then they are going to try it in sterile and interested debates of those who have started to criticize that they will improve, and they will improve already, the conditions of the workers who win the least. The other way around. What we Socialists are going to do is defend the need to continue to increase the interprofessional minimum wage, and not only will we defend it from a rostrum, but we have also put it black on white and incorporated it in the 110 government commitments for the next parliamentary term. Because the Socialists, Mr Hernández, we are going to commit ourselves, Mr Casanova, to gradually increase the inter-professional minimum wage in order to achieve compliance with Article 4 of the European Social Charter and the recommendations of the Council of Europe, i.e. to reach 60% of the average wage. But you will be with me that this will have to be done progressively. And it is true, and I share with you, Mr Hernández: we only want an interprofessional minimum wage, we want an interprofessional minimum wage for all workers, regardless of whether the worker is Galician, extremist, Andalusian, Basque, Catalan; we don't care. We do not differentiate or classify those workers who are least paid and who are protected by the interprofessional minimum wage. That is why we do not understand the defence of a Basque interprofessional minimum wage either. We believe that the instrument is another, and it is another for everyone: an interprofessional minimum wage and collective bargaining, which I will come in later to talk about. The second measure which they incorporate in their proposal has already been discussed in this Parliament, just two months ago, just five months ago, sorry, which was when we were doing, that they were talking about setting a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 throughout the public sector on all types of contracts. We then told her – I think I would remind her that it was Mrs Ubera – that in the area of public procurement this Parliament, within its competence, has adopted – as other parliaments have also done – an instrument to promote quality employment. In our case, this instrument is called Law 3/2016, for the inclusion of social clauses in recruitment, which has a very clear objective, which is to ensure respect for the labour rights that assist workers, and they are rights that are reflected – and you know it – in collective agreements. It is necessary to introduce into public procurement clauses requiring contracts, all contracts, to comply with the working conditions laid down by the applicable collective agreement, which is the other instrument that you are faced with, but it is difficult for you to know that this is not our responsibility either, in which we can influence the issue of wages and their fixing. Anyway, I remind you that, at that time, EH Bildu remembered them, and today I can remember it, and I will extend it also to the Lord, to the spokesman of Podemos, who is very well, but there is a saying that says – let us use words – but there is a saying that also says that "very preach but little give wheat", in that version that I make myself, that I think are not exactly the terms, but it is perfectly understood. Here we preach, here we preach, in the Basque Parliament, but they don't give wheat where they rule. You are in the government in Navarra, an autonomous community with powers; supposedly the same ones you ask of this Parliament. They have passed a few months ago, I think it has been 10 months – it does not arrive – a law of social clauses. I've read it; I imagine you too. Do you know where the minimum that has to be paid in public contracts appears? In none of the pages, in any of the articles; therefore, nothing to see what they do with what they ask for. They know perfectly well – they have said this – that another instrument to guarantee the minimum wage is the collective agreement, it is collective bargaining, and they also know that the Socialists – I have repeated it on numerous occasions, and it is not going to be different today – we believe and advocate that it is in this area of collective bargaining between the representatives of the working class and the representatives of the companies in which the different working conditions in which the employment contracts must be developed must be negotiated and agreed. And that is precisely Mr Casanova and Mr Hernández, what has been done through this document about seven months ago. In the summer of 2018, last year, there was an agreement between employers and trade unions at the state level in the 5th Collective Bargaining Agreement, and here it states, in its point number 4, that "during the validity of this agreement – which, by the way, I will remind you, is in force for three years; this agreement between employers and trade unions has just begun its course – it is established that it is urged to establish, in a progressive way, a minimum wage of 14,000 euros per year"; that, in monthly terms, is 1,166.66 euros in a 12-pays calculation. I mean, are there any progress? Yeah. Should we continue on the same path? Yeah. Has it reactivated? Yeah. Have we improved anything? Yes; you recognize it even yourself. Now, that is, when it improves, it has nothing to do with the government; it proceeds from infused science. When things go wrong, it's always the government's fault. Finally, a little more equanimity in the interventions would also have to be done. The task is now clear; the task is to transfer this agreement to each of the collective agreements under negotiation or pending, and there will have much to say about the employer, right, but also the trade union centres, all trade union centres. And what will be the responsibility of the public authorities and what will be the responsibility of this Government is to help make this possible, and to help is to frame these actions through the social dialogue table, which you also know our position and which is not shared with yours, because we have had the opportunity to discuss it. You, fundamentally EH Bildu, are denouncing the framework of Basque labour relations we have, and we, on the other hand, defend it, drive it and firmly believe in the potential it has. Mr Casanova, you know that it is neither in the hands of this Parliament nor of this Government to promulgate, either by GNP, or by decree, or an increase in wages, or a fixing of the inter-branch minimum wage, nor a minimum wage of agreement, nor a guaranteed wage. He knows it, and he knows it, and he recognizes it, but he insists. So what is the real objective of repeating this proposal over and over again to this Parliament, when you know what the arguments are and what the powers are?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u10	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u11	Yes, Madam President, right away. Socialists argue that minimum wages are a powerful tool for social cohesion, because they help prevent poverty and promote more dynamic wage growth, and that also contributes to competitiveness. But our commitment will be to continue to promote the legal instruments that make it possible, to increase the interprofessional minimum wage for all workers in the Spanish State, and, on the other hand, to continue to encourage and promote the areas of collective bargaining. For that, you know you're counting on us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u13	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The debate that you bring here today is not new; nor will our position be new, even though there has been an effort to reach agreement, but when one of the parties does not give up, it is not flexible, so it makes it difficult for the rest of the parties to be able to agree on something. The commitment of this parliamentary group and of the Basque Government has been firm and public for a long time and remains in force with regard to a general wage increase; but, yes, in the area of collective bargaining. And that is what we are taking back into account in our amendment, as we have done in previous times. And the attitude or role of the Basque Government has been clear in this regard, even pioneered, despite criticism of this message. And then others have joined, they have joined this message. We therefore share that wages must be in line with the socio-economic reality of each territory, in this case with our own, but what we do not share at all is that this Parliament must set an amount; on the one hand, because it must not replace any of the parties to collective bargaining. – employer and trade unions. We must not supplant them, nor condition them. And, on the other hand, as you have already said, this Parliament does not have the competence to set any minimum wage, even if you, in this case, disguise it, play with words, and, when in the beginning we were talking about an interprofessional minimum wage, it is now a minimum wage, then it is a reference wage; you are putting different surnames on it, but, in the end, what you want, the claim is to condition that collective bargaining, which, of course, is not the responsibility of the Government in this case, but of the parties, who are employers and trade unions. There is scope for, at this time, and as the economy is evolving, there is scope for wage increases. We understand that it can be widespread, but it does not have to be universal, because we cannot forget, as has already been said, that there has been a strong crisis in this country, in which we have all been affected. And, on the other hand, the situation at this time of companies is therefore very plural. There will be companies that will be able to reach more, which, in fact, are reaching more, to higher climbs, and others that are therefore in difficulty. Nor should we forget the essence or characteristic, the business fabric of this country, which is based primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, it will be in collective bargaining where these companies, with their workers, will be the ones that decide, or it is in the area of collective bargaining where these increases are decided. There may be climbs, but that will have to be the scope. In any case, you insist on setting a figure from Parliament, and that figure is 1,200 euros, in this case we believe it is not; despite the explanations you have given, Mr Casanova, and also Mr Hernández, we believe that this figure is not brought in, it is not well-founded enough for such a serious issue. We understand that this figure could be 1,200, not set in this Parliament, of course, but set in collective bargaining; it could be, just as it could be another, but we believe that it requires greater rigour. In addition, a net figure was initially mentioned, 1,200 euros in 14 net pay, and then the net was forgotten. And the difference in the total amount is substantial. With this, what tells us is that the important thing for you was the figure, the slogan, 1,200 euros. They're not, I gave them the final total. It's a slogan figure, which I don't know if it's because we're campaigning, because you insist on it. And that, when a minimum wage of EUR 900 was set up just two months ago, which has mostly been recognised as an advance, even some party present in this Parliament has signed it. So, we are surprised that there is now the leap to try to set up like 1,200 euros. That being said, in the Basque Country, the majority are now overtaken, the agreements already exceed those figures, they exceed 1,200 and they exceed 900, but the situation is plural. Also wages, the trend of wages has been upwards; wages have risen and purchasing power has already been recovered. And this Parliament has already positioned itself in favour of the wage increase, it has already positioned itself with the support of our group and also with yours, Mr Casanova, that you, at that time, the agreement of 17 May 2017 called it a success, as a good agreement, an issue that seems a few days later, therefore, no longer worth it. We believe that that agreement was demanding, in addition to other issues, it was also demanding, the structure agreement of 17 January 2017 was established as the basis, which should be the basis for collective bargaining, giving priority to our area, to the Basque area. However, these agreements, mainly the structural ones, are in force, and it is now up to the social partners to give them content since then – and it is still in force. What is needed is for agreements to be signed, what is needed are agreements, and what is not necessary is for agreements to be brought into this House continuously that are gradually surpassing, or that intend to surpass, the above. The basis is there, the instruments are there and they are in force, and those instruments must be given substance, and we do not see the need for new agreements. Of course, it will be legal for there to be a new agreement not indicated in this Parliament, but a new agreement in the framework of collective bargaining, setting minimums, but it does not have to be set by this Parliament. And, on the other hand, I do not see you, you, addressing all the parties responsible for signing agreements with the same insistence. You are very decisive with the Basque Government or with the public administrations, in this case Basques, but we do not see you addressing with the same determination those who are responsible for signing, for reaching agreements, for signing agreements, both parties alike; we do not see you so insistent. And as far as the Basque Government is concerned, indeed, the Basque Government is responsible, it is responsible for what it is responsible for. That he must have a proactive and exemplary attitude; he certainly does. He's been a pioneer in the pay-up message. And, on the other hand, as far as he is concerned...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u15	... it is to help the parties to reach an agreement, to encourage dialogue, to promote the places of permanent meeting and permanent dialogue. That's the job. That is the role of the Government in this case, and that is where the work of the Basque Government is unquestionable and unquestionable. And, on the other hand, in its area, in which it is responsible, the rise, there has been a steady clear bet in recent years, since it has been possible, for wage increases in the public sector. He's always gone to the legal highs. Now, a month ago, a salary increase of 2.25% has been approved, in addition to contributions to Itzarri. The Basque Government's commitment to it is firm, and yet its commitment is not so clear, because, when this Parliament comes here what is really the responsibility of this Parliament, which is the adoption of budgetary laws, where public sector wage increases are made effective, you never approve them. They ask the government for commitment and responsibility, but when it is up to you, and what is indeed an unspeakable or undoubted competence of this Parliament, you always find an excuse or an apology not to compromise. Therefore, and as far as public procurement is concerned, we had, as Mrs Castelo said, a debate in that regard only five months ago, on 25 October 2018, and I refer to my position in that debate. In any case, I insist that it is not possible to set an interprofessional minimum wage from public procurement. It is a modification of labour legislation, whether we like it or not. "We don't really like it," we don't have the competition. That game is not played here; we already said it on October 25 and we say it again. Therefore, we understand that the true intention of the initiative was, for it was a holder, an easy holder, because the ways to achieve that which you are asking are not to be found with a proposal not of law, but must be found in other areas. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing to the district that hasn't issued any corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casanova, in a hunch of intuition, has deduced that we were going to vote against your proposal, but that is why you brought it, because you knew that it was not going to be approved, because there are some who are responsible and we are worried about workers who charge less money than others. Not you, and neither can we. Neither of you. That's why he brought her. That doesn't stop having his grace with some. Man, Mr. Hernandez, absolute incoherents. You have agreed in December on a minimum wage of 900 euros, and you come here now and ask for 1,200. But you agree where the competition is to do so and here you ask 1,200, which also brings it, because you know that it will not be approved. We're playing fireworks here. How good are those of the far left who defend the workers who earn less. What do you propose in the next proposal that you bring us? That the Basque Government and all public administrations, when subcontracting or contracting with someone, should be guaranteed that 1,200. Totally, as money comes out of the taxes of the citizens who pay... What does it matter? Doesn't matter, does it? Because you guys don't care. And then, finally, Mr Hernández, he tells us "no, I consider that the minimum wage in Spain has to be one for all". But if you have signed – because I have just received the transaction – a transactional asking otherwise. Yeah, yeah, yeah, asking the other way around. Hey, literal. It says, "including the ability to establish a higher minimum wage than the state." Therefore, you are considering having the capacity to have a minimum wage different from the state, you are not proposing one for all of Spain as you have said here in the rostrum. You sign some things and here you say others. I don't know who you want to fool, because some of us read what we get to vote for. Now, and then everyone here gets their mouths filled with collective bargaining. Everyone defends collective bargaining, and in the transaction you bring: "The Basque Parliament urges social partners to sign an interprofessional agreement that determines...". I don't know where the collective bargaining is, if you already tell them what you have to sign... Is this the defence of collective bargaining by the upper left groups of this Parliament? But also, to see, the amendment of the representatives of the Government has its thing, has its thing, because here too collective bargaining is defended from the groups that support the Government. Man, Mrs Castelo, collective bargaining was this: agreement of government, trade unions and employers to raise the interprofessional minimum wage throughout Spain until 2020. It did not last a year because the collective bargaining of the left was this: Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias sign what they think is convenient apart from trade unions and employers. That's right, with the same speech we heard here today. And what was the effect? Because, above all, you have a secretary of state who knows something, because on the same day that you approved of breaking the agreement of employers, trade unions and government of the rise of the minimum wage, that same day, Mr Octavio Granados – Secretary of State of Social Security – said that he would assume to restrict the creation of employment. Do you know what happened to the ten days, the first day that this decree came into force, with those people who are the least winning? That there were 270,000 layoffs, 270,000 layoffs on the first working day of January, twice as much as the worst month of January in the history of the last 15 years. That was the first effect. Who did they benefit? Those who have already paid more than the minimum wage? And do you know what the second effect was in the following months? That indefinite recruitment has collapsed; it has done so: plum! By the way, they were even warned by the Banco de España. That has been the effect we have had in these three months since this was approved, against this. Of course, and I say that it is curious your amendment, because, of course, in the first point you say, you express your support for the agreement reached in the fourth state collective bargaining agreement, but if you have carried it with you. He's been charged, that deal. How does he come here to say it's a great fantastic deal and so on? That agreement was based on this, on this. He's been loaded. The first point says that it seems fantastic and that it should take effect. But if the CEO has already told you: "Listen, then, okay, you unilaterally break the agreements, because there is no agreement anymore, so, very well, fantastic"; that is what you have achieved. But then it also has merit, because the second paragraph says: "The Basque Parliament considers that the interprofessional agreement on the structure of the collective bargaining of 17 January 2017" – this is proper to the Autonomous Community; this was signed by all trade unions and the employer Confebask – and tells us that it is fantastic. Listen, and a year after that agreement was signed, ELA and LAB have said that the deal, Confebask has said that it has never been implemented because the trading system has been the same, that is, it is a ruin, and you tell us that it is the basis of what? If the very ones who signed it are saying that it is neither fulfilled nor expected to do so, there are also two unions that say they are going to attack it. And you bring him to us as an example of what? Of what? This is not the way to worry about those who have less, or, then, bring in initiatives here to promote retail trade, which, by the way, is the most damaged in layoffs with the rise in the minimum wage, Mr Casanova and Mr Hernández, who then bring us initiatives here to defend retail trade. It is these measures that are responsible for employment in this sector, in the words of Mr Octavio, Secretary of State of the Socialist Party, of the Socialist Party government supported by Podemos. Today we have come..., I don't know if this is campaign, pre-campaign or what it is. Those who agreed the minimum wage of 900 euros for all of Spain come to say no, that they want 1,200. Hey, I made a deal, I made a deal, I made a deal. That I don't know why we have to leave to the minimum that you understand, that it's not 1,200 either; it's 1,160. Yeah, it's 1,160. If it was signed in this agreement; yes, Mr Casanova. This agreement already said that the 60% recommended in Europe had to be reached. And it was set what the amount was. You just have to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u19	Well, I'll start at the end. Yes, of course, of course I have read it; 1,160 at the level of the Spanish State, because we are talking about 60% of the salary at the level of the Spanish State. What we are proposing here is that, since there is a differential and the minimum wage, according to the European Social Charter, has to be referred to the average wage, what we propose is that reference to the average wage here. And not because we are Basques and Basques, more beautiful or have more rights; we have Basque wages because we have Basque prices, because the houses are worth Basque prices, and because the purchase is worth Basque prices. So, we have to adapt the minimum wage to the actual living standard. Since I have begun with you, Mr. Damborenea, as if it were a trial, I would say to you: Do you recognize this signature here? From there you won't see her, but I tell her she's yours, as she's first secretary of the Bureau. A document sent to Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey. You did not sign the agreement, but you are referred to an agreement reached in this Parliament four years ago: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to develop the necessary measures to place the interprofessional minimum wage in our country at 60% of the national average wage, as set out in the European Social Charter, with the agreement of the Socialist Party. 60% of the salary, according to the European Charter; that is what we are asking for today. And, of course, Mrs. Larrauri has also caught me, who changes the name to things so that I can do them. You caught me, it's just that what I want is for the minimum wage here to be 1,200. I've got that evil intention that no one covers less than 1,200, and since we can't do it on the basis of establishing an interprofessional minimum wage because we don't have the competition, we're looking for ways. What you're looking for is excuses. This is not subterfuge; this is to look for revelries in legality to do things we want to do. The problem is that you don't want to do them. The problem is that you stand here with a transactional in which not even by keeping the forms you ask for the competition to establish the minimum wage here, with a transactional that has nothing to do with either the right to decide, or the approach of the PNV country. Nothing. You simply find that it is impossible to do things and ask us to apply the Fourth State Collective Bargaining Agreement to win those 14,000 euros a year, which would mean the 1,166 euros to which Mr Damborenea referred. At present, the salary is 1,050, prorating the 14 salaries of the 900. The state agreement to which you refer would propose that by 2020, and if things go well, because it is not binding, we would be in 1,166, and the proposal of 1,200 out of 14 pay would speak of 1,400 for the citizens of this country, according to their needs and their standard of living. And neither are you, nor are you expected. You have a catalogue, a form – here is Mr Urkullu; at least he is present – but I don't know if his mind is elsewhere, but this part of the intervention could be called Oda to an absent lehendakari But it is that some who do good to the former, compared to the nothing that this government supposes, with sleepy politics, with opiate politics, with doing nothing in the face of problems, is that they are making a statesman to Patxi López, and to Ibarretxe already Solón, Clistenes or George Washington, a prime legislator. Because this government is absolutely paralysed, which, in the face of a problem like that of wages, is limited to shrugging and saying that there is no competition, rather than looking for ways to improve the quality of life and wages of the most disadvantaged people in this country. It is a real inhibition; it is a reflection of his government programme, of his parliamentary commitments, which should be called parliamentary capitulations, because it is the express renunciation to transform things. What did they propose in the field of employment? Lowering by 10%, which is what all forecasts, forecasts, non-proposals or strategies, forecasts said was going to happen due to the mere inertia of the economy. But what about the quality of employment? What was said about the quality of wages? Nothing. And what is he willing to do? Nothing. You have a government catalogue, a catalogue of excuses, in which things, if they go wrong, it's Madrid's fault; if something needs to be done, we don't have the competition; and if there's no other remedy, it's EH Bildu's fault, who's in the no, who's the opposition, who beats everything, who's in the clip. Today there has been a clamp here, a conservative clamp, but a brake clamp, a brake clamp on the rights of the people of this country; a conservative clamp made up of the People's Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. I ask you not to tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what the PSOE has done in Madrid, and that the PSE here assumes its responsibilities and contributes to the improvement of wages, because the proposals that have been brought here today, which have been put on the table by Euskal Herria Bildu and Podemos – whom I take advantage of to thank for their commitment – are feasible proposals and are necessary proposals. Don't be a conservative tweezer. We come here to work. Then, let's bring in a proposal about the future of automotive. We have come up with proposals for an energy pact; we are talking today about minimum wage; we are going to come up with relocations. Yesterday, one day in this House, we talked about the Lindane, the Nervion, the Church's goods. We brought the precarious predoctoral students to the intellectual elite of the country. It fills our mouths talking about R & D, it fills our mouths talking about the most prepared youth in history, and, when it comes to that most prepared youth in history to tell what working conditions they have, that they don't even dream of having 1,200 euros, that they are absolutely precarious, the intellectual elite of the country...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u20	Please finish, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u21	And when we come here to propose that things be done, you shrug your shoulders. They pass the ball to each other, look at the stretch, disintegrate and do not do what in the framework of competences and the legal it is possible to do to improve the minimum wages. Each one with his responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u23	First of all, I'm going to thank Mrs. Castelo for not taking my pen earlier, which I don't think she's heard, that she was talking, that thank you for not taking your pen. [[Barres]] Let us see, I, if I were the proposing group, if I were Mr Casanova, would also ask for a recess because, in view of what I have heard from the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, I do not understand that they may not agree with the compromise. I did not know that the Socialist Party could not have read the transaction before the start of the debate, which has been hasty. It is true that, in principle, I was raising it as point number four. Therefore, if the initiative had left our group, I would ask for a recess. Because you say that you agree that wages have to be matched to that 60% of average wage, and your partners in the Basque Nationalist Party have also ensured that wages in each territory have to be matched to the socio-economic reality of the place, and you both refer this series of questions to be taken into account in collective bargaining. I think, roughly. We can call them what we want; we know that we cannot call them "interprofessional minimum wage" because it is something else, but it has competence to, through collective bargaining and through the interprofessional agreement, which, by the way, have already been signed by all the trade unions in Euskadi, although it is certainly empty of content and which must now be filled out, through this mechanism, this question of a minimum wage, which we have called 'guaranteeed', can be implemented, in line with 60% of the average wage in Euskadi. Because, indeed, I share with Mr Casanova that the social reality of Almeria, by putting a place at random, and the social reality of Bizkaia is not the same, and that the cost of living in one place and another is not the same. We, and I repeat, of course, no intention of trying to put an end to the interprofessional minimum wage in the Spanish State. It seems to us to be a conquest of the working class at the moment that we must preserve, and for us it is not a contradiction, even if for Mr Damborenea it is, to defend the existence of an interprofessional minimum wage in the whole of the State, with the possibility that in Euskadi, according to its reality and the cost of living that the working class has to bear in our country, it can be established, and, moreover, as indicated in this transaction, through collective bargaining, which is perfectly legal, a minimum wage – and call it as they please – under which the workers cannot be paid; that, moreover, we know that it would not be sufficient because, unfortunately, many and many workers in this country are not covered by collective agreements. Therefore, even though there would be work to be done, but it is not a contradiction, and it can be done perfectly, and in practice they would have to carry it out. We don't confuse. We know perfectly well that it is the social partners who have to agree, but Parliament – and I will insist – always has the capacity and, in my opinion, the duty to establish political positions on what it believes to be positive. In addition, it does so, and the various political groups and political parties do so, and also the People's Party, on numerous occasions, gives its opinion on issues that need to be negotiated in the area of collective bargaining. And, of course, the CEO, when he breaks agreements, does so as an excuse, because that minimum wage that we have agreed with the Socialist Government in Madrid, that the Socialist Government was not willing to agree on a minimum wage of EUR 900, in principle, for this year. The negotiations, the Socialist Party was talking about 700 euros negotiations, I don't know how many euros, and the United Coalition We can, the Confederal Group in Congress, ripped that 900 euros out of it for this year. That does not break any collective bargaining agreement, which marks a horizon a few years from now. It was an agreement to start with that important rise at a time when wages are far removed from those needed to maintain a decent standard of living throughout the State. And, in the case of Euskadi, the figure is not random. The reasons have already been explained: 60% of the average wage in our community, because, in addition, the Basque Government itself recognizes that, below that wage, we are talking about wages of poverty. This is reflected in the poverty and social welfare survey commissioned by the Basque Government itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u24	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u25	Sí, term ya. We therefore call on the proposing group, if it is right, to ask for a recess, and perhaps reach an agreement, because the initiative is good, and the initiative could be signed, at least, by the Socialist Party, in our view.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u27	Don't insist on leaving him because, in the end, they take him away. Take it; then I'll put it up. Sure. You're trying to get lucky. I had already warned them in my first intervention that some would go down and eventually manipulate data and talk about the evils of hell, which means raising the interprofessional minimum wage. And I was warning you in the first, and I will keep it in the second, because I do not deserve to be caught up in those debates in which the plagues of economic power, in short, with regard to what the interprofessional minimum wage can entail and how the argumentaries make certain groups, because, in the end, it is not worth keeping, that it spends not two more seconds with it. The only difference between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, Mr Damborenea, is that we consider the need for a decent wage, and that dignity is irrelevant to you. You don't care if the minimum wage is 600 euros, 200 or 150. I mean, and that's the big difference they have with us. With this, in the end, collective bargaining is what you destroyed with that wonderful labor reform that you did: not to the ultraactivity of the agreements, not to the guarantee of the working conditions of the workers, and not to the balance in the negotiation between the parties. And you know that perfectly well. Anyway, it's also true that I recognize that right now here we can be doing... surely it's out of interest. I agree with Mrs Larrauri that there is some intention to bring the same issue back and forth here, when the same arguments and capacities are also known. So don't be surprised if this is soporiferous. Come on, we find it soporiferous even when we have to prepare our own speech those who come to speak, because we no longer know very well or how to focus on something that has come five times. And the ones that we have left, because, as you have put us the 1,200 pieces, first for young people, then for unemployed, then for public contractors, then for the general population, then for predoctoral. Let us, by the way, not fail the truth, that on the issue of the predoctoral, that we have been able to listen to them, I think it was, I do not know if yesterday, exactly, also thanks to a socialist government, which, by the way, does not shake its legs, I mean: I do not know, when there is an agreement, whether it is a question of who asks it or, in the end, of who accepts it, or it is of the two, who accepts it and who asks it. But the socialist government, in the government of the state, has not shaken its legs to agree the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros in 2019, nor will it shake its legs to continue to climb it in 2020 and 2021, until reaching the commitment of 60% that says the European Social Charter. I do not know whether you are shaking your legs where you rule, here in Navarre, together with these gentlemen, because here you ask me for the 1,200 euros in public procurement, and neither of you have heard you here fight me why you do not pay 1,200 euros, at least, in those contracts you make in the Foral Community of Navarre. So it is true that here, too, some say that we seek excuses, others use subterfuges, but what you do not do is spread wheat wherever you can; you only preach where you have absolutely no responsibility, and that is, in itself, irresponsible. It is irresponsible to come here, and knowing, moreover, that we have already given them our arguments. Therefore, you know that you will not have the majority in GNP as you have it of origin or as you have traded it. I hadn't read it, but now I've been able to read it. I can tell you that I can't vote for her the way she's writing it because she tells me she wants to... It considers that the interprofessional minimum wage must be linked to the productive model of each territory. From every territory? From Catalonia, the Basque Country, Andalusia... No, I want one for all the workers of the nation of Spain. Then he tells me that we have to set up a guaranteed minimum wage in the Basque Autonomous Community. We want a guaranteed wage that already exists. The terms... It's not a term problem. Guaranteed wages and contract wages are terms that are commonly used in collective agreements. And, then, we agree on that, but I have reminded you that you have just signed an agreement to reach 14,000 euros a year, 1,166 euros a month, employers and trade unions. Give them time to transfer it to collective agreements. The average negotiation of collective agreements – and we have it for the reports that have been presented to us in this House – is over 365 days. It's just that you don't give them seven months. How effective is that? That is, when they have just reached an agreement, do we want to amend the plan and tell them that they must reach a higher one? Man, we could go gradually if we had taken advantage of what we offered to Mr Casanova: to say that it seems right to us to implement it, and that, to the extent possible, it should be improved in a minimum wage of agreement. It wasn't possible. You play something else, and in that game, which, by the way, on the subject of competences, we will never agree, we will never claim the competence of fixing the interprofessional minimum wage to the Basque Country. We want only one professional salary for any worker, without being classified by that place in which he was born.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u29	Chief of Parliament, thank you again. Well, that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government stay in immobilism, that they don't make compromises... That no, that no, Mr. Casanova and Mr. Hernández, that no. That the Basque Government has from the beginning, that it has been a pioneer, that Mr Azpiazu, a member of this Government, has been a pioneer in asking for a rise, a general rise in wages, but that he had many criticisms, and that you subsequently joined that message. That the message of this government is unequivocal, but it is that the solution is elsewhere, that the instruments already exist, that is the agreement of 17 January 2017, which is in force, that what is needed is to sign more conventions. That the parties, which is not the Government, sign, and you do not address those parties with the same force. Lose the complexes. You, in May 2017, said that they had signed an agreement without complexes. Lose the complexes again, lose the complex and go to the one you have to address, because Basque citizenship will thank you, because Basque citizenship needs, Basque workers need more agreements to keep improving employment, so that there is more quality employment. And that is Mr Urkullu's message, but this government does not remain in the messages, as you remain; this government acts, has been acting for 40 years, and those who are not, nor are expected, are you. You are not, nor are you expected, here, nor there, anywhere that Basque citizenship can get a benefit from your work. Nowhere. And the amount of 1,200 euros, well, is a slogan, clearly. He changed his grandchild, he was a grandchild, now he's not a grandchild, it was 14 bucks. They didn't want to talk about a total amount because they wanted the message, 1,200 euros. And the difference between net and non-net is very important, and you have given up on the net; that is not, that it was 1,200 euros. And that will require further analysis. That good, which may be the reference, could also be 1,200 euros, like 1,300 or another figure, but that requires another study, more rigour, Mr Casanova. And Elkarrekin's position We can still surprise me. I told you, Mr Hernandez, on October 25th, five months ago. But the truth is, I still don't understand. You explain that yes, that 900 euros in the state, for the whole state, and here 1,200 euros. The truth is that we still don't understand his position, no matter how much he makes arguments, he tries to make arguments. I see a very clear inconsistency, and, of course, that we do not understand it, well, but – I told you at the time – confusing citizenship is more serious. And as for practical things. You remain continuously, Mr Casanova, in the theoretical discourses. Lose, lose the vertigo. In the budget negotiation there was a very important offer from the Government with a very high amount to promote employment. And, in part, you picked up what you say here today, yes, and you know it, yes. But you just wanted to talk about one thing, about pensions, knowing that that's not the competition. Finally, the vertigo defeated them or I don't know what, and they have not been able to give anything, to achieve anything for this society, for Basque society. You have certainly achieved nothing for Basque citizenship. They say they're gonna be decisive. I doubt it very much, I doubt it very much. You'll have to see it. In any case, this Government will act, continue to act responsibly and work to ensure that Basque citizenship has an ever better quality of life, and, in this case, in particular, in employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. And finally, representing the Basque Potula, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u31	Mr. Casanova, Basque wages, Basque prices. Are Basque wages higher than in the rest of Spain because prices are higher than in the rest of Spain, or are prices higher than in the rest of Spain because wages are higher than in the rest of Spain? What was it before, the egg or the chicken? But it has nothing to do with what we were talking about. When you say "the average wage of the country will reach 60%", I am sorry to inform you that this European regulation that exists is for the Member States of the European Union. Spain is that country, and the average of Spain is the one that, in the end, has to be reached. Look, we can agree on one goal, we can agree on reaching a goal, which is to reach that 60%; we can agree. Or for any other purpose: full, stable and quality employment. The problem is not the objective; the problem is how to get there. Destroying 270,000 jobs on the first business day of January is a good way to get to that? Is destroying stable employment a good formula? That's the one you proposed to us with Podemos and the one that applied the PSOE, Mr. Sánchez. We're not about that, I told you. We do defend that people can work. A stable and quality employment. Mr. Hernandez tells me, the minimum wage, such... You have claimed to have a minimum wage different from that of the State. Collective bargaining has it at the first point in its transactional, so I don't... And yes, you broke this deal. Do you know who this one is? A certain Unai Sordo – I don't know if he sounds to you – of Commissions, and a certain Pepe Álvarez, of UGT. Yeah, you broke this deal. Mrs. Castelo, the decent salary is what separates the PSOE from the PP. Let's see, UGT, Commissions and the PP. Here a decent wage was agreed, which you broke. I do not know if it is more worthy that 270,000 go to unemployment, which is what they got on January 2, the day when their rise in the minimum wage came into force. You guys don't care about the job. They are a standstill machine with proven effects over the past 20 years. I mean, we're used to it. Even, look, you've been talking about issues that were discussed yesterday before. Some take out; others take out others. I will remind you of something: for example, we talked about investments in the High Nervousness, in the scrubbers. And some representative of his party said it was that since no new budgets had been approved... Look, it's just that the current one had the departure to do it, and they haven't executed it. Do you want to tell me on Fridays chachis Look, Zapatero took seven years to break Spain; Sánchez is able to overcome him. This gentleman, in a year, is able to break Spain. And, therefore, we have a chance to avoid it within a month.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Yeah? Yeah? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u33	With your permission, but if you look at me with that face, I don't know if you'll allow me to or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u34	Yes, yes, you have my permission. What? What do you want?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u35	Since I've been mentioned, it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u36	No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u37	A little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u38	There's no such thing as pussy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u39	But not about discussion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u40	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u41	No, no. About the vote. About the vote...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u42	Oh, about the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u43	Yes, yes, yes. I mean, you know, there was a last-minute change in the subject order, and the other teams got a middle cut when the discussion was going.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u44	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u45	The middle door closed yesterday. We thought of sharing with them this morning, and because of this change, it was impossible; so that I don't know how long the teams have had enough time to appreciate the last changes. It doesn't concern me, because we can clearly see what we're going to vote for, but if other teams want to look at time or point vote, we'd take it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u46	You understand. They didn't say anything. I don't know what they mean. Shall we go to the vote? Well, we're going to the vote. What we're going to vote is, after discussion, EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u47	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the Eucan Abertians and the whole correctional corrections signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 28; white, 0; Abstations 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u48	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal as a parlamentary Podemos was made with one another about the departure of the labourers. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos group together, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u49	Good morning again, members of the legislature. We are bringing to debate an initiative on the problem of occupational accidents, accidents at work, and, in particular, trying to focus on serious and very serious accidents and those which end up with the death of workers, two years after having heard the director of Osalan, Mr Alberto Alonso, say that 99% of the serious industrial accidents that occur in Euskadi, in our community, are preventable, and therefore, among them, accidents with the unfortunate result of death. In our opinion – and we have already said this on another occasion – it is a statement as certain as categorical and forceful, and, therefore, in the face of such a statement, we think that anyone should ask themselves, and more public representatives should ask why we are not able to avoid something that we say is avoidable and terrible. Something, of course, is not being done well, beyond the distribution of responsibilities that each one of us can do and that we will do, perhaps, in the debate, but something is not being done well. And we think it's important to recognize it. Because, in our opinion, things are not being done right or, at least, not being done enough when a couple of years after that statement we still have a hard reality in relation to work accidents and, in particular, in relation to those work accidents in which we lose human lives, irreparable accidents. Work accident data for 2018 published by Osalan himself are not good at all. Fatal work accidents in Euskadi during the working day have increased by 36% compared to the previous year. We are talking about a total of 34 human lives losses compared to the 25 we had in 2017 in working hours. We have to add three other unfortunate deaths that have occurred in the itinerary. We are talking about a total of 37 people who left their lives last year in their jobs in our community. 37 people who have died in serious accidents, too many to prevent 99% of them, in the words, as I said, of the director of Osalan himself. And, with regard to the total number of casualties, also in 2018, there was a 1.5% increase in Euskadi. There are more than 35,000 accidents; also an increase of more than 500. I mean, we think that the figures they're doing, at least, is giving us a touch of attention about something that's not going well, something that's not going well for safety and health at work in Euskadi, and that doesn't mean that there can be things in this matter that are doing well, wrong or regular, but something's not going well. But we didn't want to come here today to discuss figures and get into the fight over numbers, because, on some occasion, even at some employer's appearance, we've come across things like figures are better than they were 30 years ago. We already said in his day, "I'd miss more." It would be very bad for things in this country if the figures for labour injury and death on the floor were higher than 30 years ago or worse than 30 years ago. That is why we do not intend to discuss figures and we hope that the debate will not be about that route, because we, like other groups, have on different occasions expressed that a single death in a work accident is too much, we join that statement, of course not by rhetoric, but by sincere conviction that behind every death at work there is a double misfortune: death itself and the fact of dying before time in a preventable accident, as we said, as a result of labour exploitation in your job. That is why, and given the evidence that accidents and deaths at work are not being avoided, when the government itself recognizes that 99% are avoidable, we were introducing this initiative, which, in addition, we thought could have important or majority support from the House. We do so to advance the work of the Government, because that is one of the tasks of the opposition in a Parliament; to promote the work of the Government in the face of a tragic reality, which is largely avoidable, but is not being avoided; to encourage the Government to do more and better, because we believe that the situation and the issue demands it. We also know that these worrying figures are not a direct result of the economic recovery after the crisis, as we believe they showed different social actors in this Parliament's Labour Committee itself, but a direct result of the current situation of widespread precarious employment in our country. Our coalition has always argued – and we have maintained it in this Parliament, I think consistently – that ensuring good working conditions in jobs is the best way to avoid labour sinestrality. There is a direct demonstrated relationship between precarious working conditions and accidentality at work, and we believe that the situation of precariousness, widespread precariousness and spread in the world of work in our country is also demonstrated. That is why we are aware, and we have always defended it, that the best measure, the first, at least, that we need to reduce precariousness and, therefore, to reduce sinestrality is to reverse the labour reforms that have so many times heard us criticise, the labour reforms that have been undertaken in recent times, which have extended precariousness as a predominant feature of jobs throughout the State and, of course, also in Basque. In this Parliament, the rejection of these reforms by our group has already been made clear on several occasions; the latter is that of the People's Party. From this Parliament, however, we also have to combat precariousness and, in a specific way, labour sinestrality, and even more so in view of the fiasco which, in our view, the Socialist Party's government in La Moncloa, in particular in the fight against job precariousness. We say, because we have been saying this in recent weeks, that the Sánchez Government has been unable to repeal a labour reform after promising that it would be the first thing it would do when it arrived in La Moncloa; it has not even dared to reverse the most harmful parts of that reform, as it also told us once it had already settled in La Moncloa. And it is the Socialist Party itself that is responsible for the management of the Department of Labour in the Basque Country, the competent, precisely, to ensure safety and health at work in our Autonomous Community, something which, in our opinion, is not being done with positive results, in view of the reality and the data we know. It is not being done because of what I said at the beginning of my speech: if the Department itself, if the Government itself, if Osalan itself has for two years already recognized that most of these serious and very serious accidents, and, in particular – I am referring in particular, because I believe they are of particular importance – those with the result of death are avoidable and we are not avoiding them, because the figure has increased, because we think that at least it is not being done enough. That is why we are bringing this parliamentary initiative, because it is clear, in our view, that important improvements in policies aimed at ensuring safety and health at work must be made and, above all, improvements that can lead to the elimination of serious and very serious accidents at work as an objective. We know that it would be a quimera to suggest that with any kind of measure, with any kind of policy we will guarantee zero accidents, but in other areas of policy, different administrations set zero targets, knowing the same. We therefore believe it is important that the objective be zero accidents. In particular, what we are presenting today is an initiative that proposes essentially two things. First of all, that an action plan be drawn up with the aim of eliminating labour injury; a plan, in our opinion – and in the initiative we leave sufficient scope to the Government, because, practically, all we say to it is that it makes a diagnosis and does that plan – but we think it should be a comprehensive plan, a plan that has to be worked out by the whole government, not even just the Department of Labour and Justice, because addressing labour sinestrality we understand that it is a question of Osalan, which is a question of Labour Inspection, which is a question of the Department of Economic Development, which is a question of different departments. A plan to be drawn up on the basis of a detailed diagnosis of occupational accident in Euskadi by sectors of activity and with a gender perspective. It is true that reports are made, and it is true that plans are made, and it is true that there is a framework 2015-2020, but we believe that the current situation requires a turn around and a comprehensive plan, that the Government should address this issue with determination, knowing that what is being done is not succeeding in avoiding this tragedy. Secondly, we propose that the creation of the Territorial and Sectoral Delegate for the Prevention of Occupational Risks be addressed at once in order to ensure the prevention and protection of workers in companies with fewer than six workers. Companies which, as you know, do not have the right, according to the law, to have trade union representation and therefore do not currently have prevention delegates. Therefore, approving this figure, in our view, would be a great tool to alleviate this lack of safety and health in employment. It is not the only deficiency: we have heard a lot of shortcomings that the social partners have explained to us when they went through the Labour Committee, but this is a concrete one, which they have also explained to us, because it is a measure that is aimed precisely at small businesses, which, as we have often heard in this Parliament, are the majority of companies in the country and which, moreover, are the companies where there are greatest risks, because they are the companies that have the greatest difficulty in implementing preventive measures in the field of safety and health at work. In large companies, beyond the greater or lesser will each one has, it is easier to implement the measures. And, in addition, in those large companies, usually there are company committees, there is union representation and there are prevention delegates, who do their work, in addition to working in their job, and they worry about prevention and being on top of the company in this matter. We therefore believe that this is a good measure to ensure prevention in small businesses in our country, which, as I said, are the majority and the most difficult. We believe that this is a concrete, simple measure and that it should be implemented as soon as possible, because, in addition to being positive, it has trade union support – we have heard it in the Labour Committee – beyond the fact that the different trade unions and the different social partners, including the employer, then have different views on how to implement it. But we do not say how to put it into practice; that is also a matter for collective bargaining. And because, in addition, we have experience in other autonomous communities. There are some, few, but there are autonomous communities where, by interprofessional agreement, this figure has been adopted and the respective governments have signed decrees for the existence of this figure as a territorial and/or sectoral prevention delegate. Well, that's how we think it's an initiative that would help improve prevention, safety and health policies at work at a time when, in our opinion, we think it's obvious that we're not succeeding in avoiding something that we recognize is avoidable. The Government recognizes that such accidents can be avoided and must recognize, because it is an objective fact, that they are not being avoided, and that things must therefore be done. We propose these two issues. And we ask the groups in the House to support them, because we think they can go ahead and we think they would be very positive for improving working conditions in the working class in Euskadi. We do so from our expertise, and we would take an important step forward in the field of prevention and safety at work to get closer to that "zero accidents" objective, and to try to prevent anyone else from losing their lives in their jobs. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of EH Collector, Madam Ottagon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u51	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The year is only three months old, and we can't say that we've begun our year well, at least as far as the laborists are concerned. 10 workers have already died in a factory accident in South Basque Country, and we can't even say that we finished the year well, because even the balance of last year was no good. In South Basque Country, last year, 68 workers were killed in a factory, 37 workers in Esquire Autonomia Er member, according to the report of Osalan. And the labor accident doesn't go down either, Mr. Hernández has just given the data. The data is bad, very bad. Work and Social Security Chiefs and General Directors of Osalan confessed in the presentation of the balance of the year last. In the field of industry there is always a remarkable display of serious laborers, especially of death. But the diseases of the work are also highly to be taken notice of, and we must lay the stress on them too. The hardships of work have increased, and those which have been colonized, many remain unrecognized. Work diseases must be well detected, their confessions must be made; they must be admitted to be the source of pathological employments; and those who are more and more numerous must be placed in the hands of the workers with health problems and diseases which produce or produce them. A number of European researches make it clear to the conduct of the manufactures and professions. In every person killed by labor, by the authority of profession, 18 deaths occur, especially in the context of the European Union. It is essential to guarantee the health of those workers, because we have a right to do our work in a decent and safe manner, because we have a right to go to work and return to a healthy house, because we have the right to do no harm to our health. And all this must be confirmed by the public administration, with the assistance of all the other agents, and, of course, with all the complications of the workers and corporations. And we believe that whoever has to take care of the health of the workers is our health system. We make a strong bet for a universal public system of health, and it seems to us that the health of labour ought also to be within that public system, in all its disciplines. This would allow our health system to examine how to finance it, but it would be necessary for enpreses to participate in it, as they now do by social security. Even the National Prevention System of Workers. Even Prebence ought to be Publique, not subordinated to the mute, and patronal. Public control is what we have to guarantee in every aspect that concerns the health of the work. In Europe several countries are betting on it. It is evident that this is the choice of countries which favour the most advanced countries and a strong public system. But, apparently, we are going in the opposite direction, or some of us would like to put us in this direction-more and more interested in public control. Well, we don't. We won't bet for it, and, as we've said over and over again, we'll bet on a solid public system. Lack of work and luck are not a matter of chance. Working, industry, weakness of ability, employment, and a poor condition of labor are the direct consequences of true prevention and lack of protection. No one ceases to deny that there is a prerogative behind labor and misery, so that we may seize the bull by the horns. Together we agree with the statement made in this other proposition, as the Podemos has represented. We really believe that health and security are a political subject of preference, and we are concerned that serious and serious business accidents are increasing in our own community. In like manner, we are willing to accuse the fact that almost all labour and accidents can be avoided, as Mr. Hernandez has said well, and that they are an attack against the right of decent employment. From this Illus, therefore, we communicate our solidarity to all the victims of this unpardonable evil. And in saying this, I mean also that we agree with the first request which is made in this proposition. You can see the need of a certain diagnosis of the number of works of every activity team, and you're asking me to do that diagnosis by grafting in the genus view. The purpose of this Diagnostic must be to make a plan of action for the disappearance of the labourers, and of course to introduce you into this legislature. I believe that no one here will doubt the need of it, knowing what has been the progress and influence of the labor suits for the last few years. As for the production of the figures of the representatives of the country or sector for the prevention of labour, we cannot say that we are perfectly united. This figure produces doubts, and the other is because in places where this figure has been produced it has not caused the reduction of the labor-strips in it. Besides, the unional majority, against what Mr. Hernandez has said, does not want it; at least, not as it is planned. And from that point of view, we don't think it makes any sense to give the unions reduced to the majority of unions. It is true that, in the occurrences of which we received, or requested, the social agents, which we received, and even the association of the Greeks, made a proposition of this kind, and we see that it was necessary, but not as it is proposed. In this proposal we have not been able to reach an agreement, especially because we have had a different view, especially at the time of implementation. We add a few shades to them, and our correction answers them. We, too, have to create a figure for the prevention of labor-guards, in order to ensure the protection of workers less than six workers. But we do not think it ought to be as it is here designed for two aspects: for the first, we do not think that it is necessary to form a profession by agreement. As I have said before, the health of the workers seems to us to be a security of public administration, a strong public health system. And the figure of these representatives of the country for the prevention of labor seems to us to be to create public administrations. We believe it must be a technical job, and the best thing to do might be to create inside the Osalan work list. These should be employments by adoption, and not delegation positions appointed by the union institutions. And besides, it must be the function of these representatives of the land, that you have said in the most part that you have said in common with those who have no union, and who have no preventive representatives. In the second place, we do not believe that there must be stable representatives; at least, not representatives of all sectors, especially because we find very different situations in different sectors. Perhaps it would be more convenient in sectors with the highest synthesis, but we have doubts about it. And, to conclude, as to the final proposal received in the legal proposal, we do not see in the public administration field that the regulation of the country is necessary for the prevention of the authorities, because it is not a sector of high synthesis. In short, a specific diagnosis of the sector and a plan of action are necessary, and the form of the representatives of the country for the prevention of the public security is necessary, but from the public administration, with the guarantee of public control. And, lastly, the care of the health of these workers must principally be our public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u52	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u53	Yes, thank you, President. We are going to discuss an initiative on the eradication of labour sinestrality, and that seems to us to be important. Occupational disaster not only is a major injury to working people, but also a major social injury and economic cost to the health care system. And it is necessary to include both occupational accidents and occupational diseases when talking about occupational accidents. And it is very important to do a constant job in order to achieve a reduction of the occupational sinestrality, both by the Administration, from Osalan and Labour Inspectorate, as well as by companies, mutuals, prevention services, workers, etc. In the last 25 years, since Osalan was created – the incidence rate – what is clear is that it has been reduced in our Basque Autonomous Community by more than half, which weighs the number of accidents according to the working population. That's a fact. Counts can be produced in figures – we have seen this – but between 2017 and 2018 the incidence rate has been reduced by 0,9 %. But I do not want to enter into this debate, into a debate on figures. I agree with Mr Hernández that it is not the same in today's debate. Although I do have to point out, that none of the speakers have pointed out before, that in 2019 we will have a significant increase in accidents at work, but for a simple reason: because, since January of this year, following the reform that has taken place in the autonomous regime, which has been carried out by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, from now on, from January of this year, accidents suffered by self-employed workers will also be counted, within the figures of accidents at work, as well. This year, taking into account this variation, there will be an increase in the number of accidents at work in relation to the records of the accident. But we are also aware that in recent years, due to the 2012 labour reform of the PP government, the causes that may have an impact on labour injury have changed. Mr Hernández highlighted one of them: the increase in the temporality and partiality of contracts, which lead to a deterioration in labour relations and have an impact on the safety and health of workers. These reforms have led to deregulation, leaving in the hands of employers working conditions, working hours, hours, work systems, increases in workloads and stress. There is also a lack of adequate training and information in preventive matters; cuts in investment in preventive matters by companies, which see it as a cost and not an investment; lack of a genuine preventive culture; increased psychosocial risks; emergence of new risks arising from new technologies; reform of the mutual law, which gives them absolute power, giving priority to economic interests over the health of workers; breaches of the duty to coordinate; still very generalist health surveillance; areas where it is more difficult to monitor compliance with basic safety conditions. It has been shown that, in Euskadi, most companies are SMEs and lack staff delegates and therefore prevention delegates, etc. These are factors that can affect and affect within the occupational sinestrality. And we have many small businesses with fewer than six workers where there is no such representation of workers or prevention delegates. This initiative also refers to the creation of the territorial and sectoral delegate, in order to ensure protection in the field of occupational risk prevention for workers in companies with fewer than six workers. At present, although section 34 of the Occupational Risk Prevention Act states that workers have the right to participate in the enterprise in matters relating to occupational risk prevention, only in enterprises or workplaces with six or more workers will participation be channelled through legal representatives, staff delegates and, within them, prevention delegates. My group, the Basque Socialists, does not fail to see the creation of the figure of the territorial or sectoral delegate in companies with less than six workers. But its creation, in any case, we consider that it can only be recognized by two means: either by a modification of the norm – at present, as we have seen, that right is not recognized in companies with less than six workers – or by an interprofessional agreement between business and trade union representation. Under no circumstances can it be created on the sole initiative of the Basque Government, unilaterally. We are very respectful of the autonomy of the parties, and the creation of the figure of territorial or sectoral delegate, being not regulated by the regulations in force, can only be agreed by the business and trade union representation, through an interprofessional agreement. And the creation of this figure must pose, it has raised its doubts; indeed, some unions do not see it well, and neither does the parliamentary group. Collect EH. At present, the debate is already within the social dialogue table. Since the start of this initiative until now, it has been, already, a part of it and this debate is part of the social dialogue table. It was proposed by UGT within it, and Confebask does not see it with bad eyes. It is therefore most likely that the creation of this figure of the territorial delegate will be agreed within this social dialogue table, but it is up to them to decide when and how that figure of the territorial delegate is created through an interprofessional agreement. We have tried the agreement until the last moment, and it has not been possible, because in the initial proposal of the Elkarrekin Podemos group and in the compromise amendment, reference was made to the elaboration of a comprehensive plan incorporating the gender perspective, in order to eradicate labour sinestrality in the Basque Country. And we did not agree, because an annual report has already been prepared by Osalan, where everything relating to labour sinestrality is collected, it differs by sector and activity, and also already includes the gender perspective. In addition, the annual management plan is drawn up and discussed within the General Council of Osalan and in its final drafting it is agreed with the various social partners, including within them trade unions, employers and cooperatives. And, in addition, all these objectives take into account and exist, in addition, the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 2015-2020. Therefore, we did not see any need, taking into account the existence of all these reports – the annual report, the management plan and the Basque strategy – for the elaboration of a new plan. And, secondly, he talks about the figure of the territorial delegate, but, in the amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group, we talked about moving its creation to the table of social dialogue, where we understood it had to be and where it is right now, so that it is through this interprofessional agreement between trade unions and employers as that figure is believed. It is therefore not for us to enter into the creation of this figure; it is for the parties, employers and trade unions, and they will probably reach agreement on the creation of this figure within the social dialogue table. That is why we are going to defend our amendment to the whole, where we collect and refer that reference to the social dialogue table, which we consider important, which is where it is necessary to be born and created, under the conditions and with the functions which the parties consider necessary, that figure of the territorial delegate. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u54	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. We have a new legal proposition connected with discussion, health, and security. We've been working on this subject several times in this Chamber. Of course, we share the concern about the occupational disaster, as the Government does, which has made occupational health and safety a priority issue, and is focusing its efforts on it. For our party it is essential that the administration should develop necessary undertakings, which are no doubt adapted to the proper execution of the rules of the work; but this care is shared. The explanation must be of all parts, the work must be done from all parts, and from all parts involved; business, unions, workers, because otherwise prevention will never work properly. And it's true that the labor accidents have increased. Tough reality that constantly appeals to us, because there is no acceptable number of accidents at work. For our group, it is an obligation to reduce labour sinestrality until it is eradicated, if this is objectively possible. In this regard, we must highlight the work that has been carried out in recent years by the Administration in the field of prevention with the aim of ensuring the health and safety of workers, and in this there is also the rest of the social partners, companies, trade unions; but, I repeat, there is also the Administration. That is why we do not share the view that you are moving us from a lack of commitment from the Administration in this area. You have taken a photo, and, as a photo, gives an image of a specific moment, but this is a question that needs to be analyzed from a temporary perspective. With this we do not want to obviate the current reality. The objective must continue to be to reduce labour sinestrality, and, in order to make progress, it is essential to have information, timely, adequate and sufficient to measure and assess what is being done well and where it is necessary to influence and even modify so that efforts can really be focused where they are really needed. In this sense, it would seem that Elkarrekin's non-law proposal We can, when considering making a diagnosis and, from it, draw up a plan, affect this line. We would share his proposal if we did not consider it unnecessary from our point of view, since the Basque Government already has data, has information to be able to carry out an analysis of the situation, and from there it has management tools that allow it to make progress in the field of occupational risk prevention. Thus, Osalan periodically publishes data on all aspects of occupational accidents and occupational diseases, data that take into account a multitude of variables, disaggregated by sex, age, sector of activity, among other variables; data from which periodic reports are also prepared on occupational accidents and occupational diseases, in which the gender perspective is incorporated and takes into account, of course, a multitude of variables; data from which it is possible to carry out an analysis of the situation and identify those sectors or areas of activity in which preventive action is necessary. That is to say, there is a diagnosis of the situation, from which the annual management plans are drawn up, which contain, where appropriate, the actions to be taken; plans which, as has already been mentioned, are discussed in the framework of the General Council of Osalan, and their final content is agreed between institutional representation and social actors. That is why we believe that this is a good opportunity for the social partners involved in this forum to come up with proposals or alternatives that they consider appropriate in order to make progress in reducing labour losses. These management plans of Osalan are linked, as it cannot be otherwise, to the Basque Strategy of Safety and Health at Work 2015-2020, strategy, by the way, consensual with the social agents and which is undoubtedly the result of the clear commitment of the Basque Government to occupational health and safety. Thus, the Government already has a defined reference framework, an instrument that allows progress to be made in promoting the improvement of working conditions and the quality of work for workers. That is why we do not think it makes sense to ask the Government to do something it already has: data, diagnoses, gender-sensitive action plans and a general framework, such as the Basque strategy for health and safety at work. And that is what we proposed in our entire amendment, that the Government should continue along these lines. And another of the proposals that has been put forward focuses on the field of enterprises with fewer than six employees. We have expressed it several times in this chamber, and I shall repeat it again; it is not new. The Government has been developing different strategic plans over the years. It has put in place various measures to develop actions aimed at raising the level of health and safety protection of people through the exercise of, for example, inspection. It is true that inspection is not the subject of debate today. We have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to talk about their important role. Progress has also been made in strengthening it as a key tool to ensure compliance with labour legislation by all actors involved in the prevention of labour risks. In addition, Osalan technicians make constant visits to companies to check compliance with occupational risk prevention regulations. They also play an important advisory and collaborative role for different companies to implement the actions necessary to comply with this regulation. And so we have the mechanism to deal with the number of accidents in the work. Having said that, we agree on the desirability of strengthening the protection and safety of workers, by continuing to take steps towards achieving this objective. In this regard, we share the proposed approach of seeking tools to help improve compliance with labour risk prevention legislation and thus ensure adequate levels of protection for workers in companies with fewer than six workers. But we do not share the proposed materialization proposal. There is another forum, there is a forum, such as the social dialogue table, through which we believe this issue should be addressed. And, moreover, Mrs Sánchez has already commented: it is already a matter on the social dialogue table at the moment; it is a good time to do so, now that this table has been reactivated. In the same vein, we are also proposing our amendment as a whole, because it is proposed that the creation of a figure, a new figure be promoted, but on what basis? Based on what ratings? There are many issues that need to be considered; many issues that need to be addressed, such as who is responsible for the appointment or appointment of these people, how the necessary coverage would be articulated so that these people could enter these companies of less than six workers, what their duties should be. Well, various and multiple issues that we understand that those who have to determine them are, in fact, the social partners, and, as I say, there is an appropriate forum for that, which is the social dialogue table, and, moreover, this issue is currently being dealt with. Well, as has already been seen, it has not been possible to reach an agreement on this issue, although I acknowledge to you, Mr Hernández, the attitude you have had to seek that agreement, to try to reach that agreement, but, despite the fact that we have tried to seek that common meeting point, we have failed to do so, and despite the fact that all groups clearly agree on the common objective of moving forward and progressing towards the reduction of labour sinestrality, a clear commitment in which the Government is also in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u56	Thank you, Miss Otalora. We're going to the teams that don't run. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I would like to begin to explain my group's position on the Elkarrekin initiative. We can take a fixed picture of the beginning of the exhibition that Mr Hernández has made; that is, there are accidents at work. There are accidents at work within the working day, there are accidents at work. That fixed photo would already be more than enough for this issue to be discussed here today. But also, if we try to see how that fixed photo evolves, the situation is more worrying. And I think it should take us even more seriously to take action on the matter. Why? Well, very simple, because the number of accidents at work is growing. We can engage in a war of data, in a bombardment of those who grow up, those who stop growing up, in which sectors and, even, within Euskadi, in historical territories; if it is the young, if it is the least young, if it is the men or if it is the women. The reality, objectively, is that the number of accidents at work is growing. If we go to the national indices, we find that everything goes more or less on the same average, that we are depending on the periods within the parameters of general evolution, but the reality is that there are indeed accidents. And, therefore, it is necessary to take action. And since action is needed, I do not understand why the groups that support the Government do not want to get to work. We have been told by the two spokesmen of both the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group what their position is and why they do not want to accept the proposal that Elkarrekin Podemos brought us today and that my group did not amend at any time, because we believed that in itself it was perfectly consumable and we thought that it would come out today by unanimous agreement of the House. We are told that the studies, the percentages, are known, that is, that they are already being done and that they cannot join an initiative so that the Government has to do something that it is already doing, even with a gender perspective, they were telling us this morning from the rostrum. But the reality is that we have the statistical data, and although we also have the corrective measures, because no one has told us what are the causes of this increase, or simply not of the increase; the existence of occupational accidents and the growth and increase of occupational diseases. We have not spoken of causes; only of empirical data. We have it, we know it; well, as it is, we leave it there. No, something has to be done. Plans are already made, yes, and the situation is growing, and the situation is getting worse. Therefore, it is not enough with what the Government is doing to us today in this matter, and that is why we believe – and we are going to support Mr Hernández's initiative – that immediate, complete statistical work is needed, by sectors, by territories, by sectors of production, by sectors of population, between men and women; let us differentiate each of these areas, even within the same historical territories, within the cities, from the smaller localities, because I believe that all this data and this more thorough analysis of this data can serve us to find the causes behind this increase in sinestrality. And once we have that data, bring in the shock plan, because they tell us that annual plans are already being made. Well, but they don't serve those, like the famous employment plans that are punishing very specific sectors within the population of Basque workers. This one tells us that it is the government of people; it must be of the elderly, because, look, the young people, especially the very young, those between the ages of 16 and 24, are the most punished in the increase, precisely, of these accidents at work. And women, above all, the Vizcaines and the Alavesa, have suffered a sharper increase in occupational sinestrality. This is not the case with gipuzcoans. Well, it must be the government of the people, yes, of the men and the older people, because the other collectives, in fact, are much more unprotected. That, in terms of what is the first part of the initiative. Look, there is no inconvenience in coming to this House, we understand, and we are going to ask you to do so, and I hope that you will come forward with the support of the rest of the groups, so that the government will analyse this data, tell us what the causes are and bring us an immediate shock plan in a short period of time so that we can get it started. Precisely because we are now going to find a significant increase in accidents at work, indeed, as Mrs Sánchez said, because now we are going to account for the accidents of self-employed workers, and that serves me to get to or spin it with the second point. Let's talk about the companies, the smaller ones, which turns out to be the most numerous of those we have in our community. We are talking about those of less than six workers, because it is the classification that makes the statute, but the reality is that we are talking about companies of one worker, two, three workers... That is where, in fact, there is no trade union representation. Well, thinking about them and thinking about the self-employed, we have to realize that there is going to be a very important increase in the next statistic, which is what we will have next year. If we add to that – and we will see it next week – the strong destruction of employment by the policies being carried out from Madrid, which are leading us towards a slowdown, as the Finance Advisor acknowledged today, to a cooling, a slight cooling, but cooling of the economy that is going to involve the destruction of employment, we will find that, despite fewer people working, accidents will grow. Because, when jobs are destroyed, what happens is that the jobs that are maintained are precarious, and in this precarious situation there is an increase in sinisterity. Where? In the most affected groups: young people, women's employment, etc., as I told them at the beginning of my speech. That is why we believe that the social partners should be urged from here to agree to name that legal figure which already exists, with functions perfectly developed in the law, but which, by agreement between the parties, will be able to increase or decrease or concretely define the formula which they must choose to appoint those sectoral or territorial delegates for the prevention of occupational risks directed at small businesses. We do not share, Mrs Otamendi, that this is being done from Osalan with the creation of new jobs within the RPT. We understand that it has to be between the social partners, whether appointed by the unions, or through the mutual employers, the figure that both representatives of the workers and representatives of the companies agree between them, so that this measure can be implemented, which may not contribute energetically to the disappearance of the accidents at work, but something positive will do. We have the legal forecast; let's use it, because it's not bad. And does that appointment necessarily have to be within the social dialogue table? That social dialogue table is an oxymoron in its own name, because there is little dialogue there, and the representatives of society are not, in fact, the ones who are most interested in this issue today. And I am not referring to the trade union centres that, in their desire to do politics, forget about the representation and the problems of the workers, no. I am referring to the fact that, at that table, which is represented, precisely – and we have been transferred to the Committee on Justice and Labour – by business representatives, who are present are the big companies or the big business associations. And here what concerns us at this time and for the creation of territorial delegates are micro-enterprises, and these are far from these great representations or from these great tables. I do not understand that the Government closes to being outside that social dialogue table where it is precisely believed. The only thing we are asking is for the creation, by sector, to be promoted in the way that the representatives of both sides consider appropriate. And, within the public service, therefore, I sincerely – and I thus transferred it to Mr Hernández, to whom I am grateful for his efforts to try to reach a unanimous agreement – do not see that figure particularly necessary, although we do not consider it to be harmful. We will therefore abstain in that part of your initiative. Therefore, I call to try to reach agreement among all, because I believe that the problem is great, the evolution is negative and, above all, the prospect for an immediate future is very black for all the workers in this country, who are going to face important developments and increases in both occupational accidents and occupational diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. We'll take the answers turn. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u59	Well, I believe that, from what I have heard in the debate, I believe that there is a majority in this Parliament who believes that we do need that plan that we propose in our initiative. And that makes me think at this point that we would not be so out of line, regardless of whether Osalan makes his annual reports; that there is, in fact, a Basque strategy 2015-2020, which I mentioned in my previous speech. The question is, as I said at the beginning of my previous speech, that if we all recognise, and the Government in particular recognizes that 99% of these serious and very serious accidents are preventable and are not being avoided, we must turn to what is being done, right? We can't stay and say it's already done. And I don't think it would do any harm to the parties supporting the government, nor to the Socialist Party, which, because they are running the Department of Labour, would urge the government to make that plan, on the basis, moreover, of what is being done, which was also what I had offered to trade the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, it seems to us that that first part of our initiative was positive, and it is necessary that an integral plan be drawn up at the moment, which we know is not going the right way in addressing labour sinestrality. And as for the figure of the territorial and/or sectoral delegates, we are of course going to defend the creation of this figure, and our initiative, moreover, did not divert the question from where it has to be agreed. We are talking about an interprofessional agreement, an interprofessional agreement, moreover, which has already been signed by all trade unions in Euskadi. The interprofessional agreement has been signed by all trade unions; it must be filled with content. This could be a good content, in our view, and it would therefore seem important to us that Parliament should urge this to be taken up. And it is a figure that already exists, and of course from my group we are going to defend, Mrs Otamendi, that this figure is a trade union figure, which does not contradict, and I agree with something that you have said, that more jobs are needed in Osalan related to prevention – that is what we agree with – and, in particular, addressed to small businesses. We agree. But that is not incompatible with a figure which, in my opinion, is of great importance that it is a trade union figure, because we sometimes forget that trade unionists are workers, and it is very important that it is the workers themselves who are above safety and health at work. The Administration has its responsibility and it is the one that has to ensure safety and health at work, but it is shown that, when the workers themselves are on top of this issue, safety and health at work is more effective. That is why it does seem important to my group that this figure, if it is to be agreed by trade unions and employers, should have a component of the working class itself, because, in fact, in companies that do have trade union representation there are trade union prevention delegates, and I do not think that any group would argue that the existence of such prevention delegates in large companies is in addition. And, therefore, we think that it would also not be too much if that figure were to exist in small businesses. We thought it would be an important step forward. Yes, I regret not to share a statement made by Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, whom I thank for the support your group has given to our initiative. I believe that the unions do not forget the workers in their desire to do politics. I am convinced that workers cannot be defended without doing politics, also from the union sphere, because, in the end, the union struggle and the political struggle is the same struggle. And that's why you so many times surely blame me for bringing things here that sometimes tell me different groups that are matters exclusively to be negotiated by employers and trade unions. I will continue to insist that, politically, political groups, political parties and also parliaments can have that political opinion on issues affecting the world of work, and that, then, yes, we support this to be put into practice in agreements between social partners. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of EHGD, Madam Ottagon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u61	Thank you. At the social conversation table is not represented by the union majority here. And besides, this union majority is against that table. As I have said, the syndicate majority here does not see the figure of this representative of the country for the preparation of labor, at least not as planned. I am very much concerned, then, to know, as has been said, that those who form that table see this proposition with a good eye. This proposition will be opposed to the majority here. I think there's no need to say or say more. We shall continue to defend it everywhere in company with fewer workmen than six, and therefore in enterprises, where they have no delegation or prevention, that figure is necessary; of course it is necessary. Es que And I am glad, at least, to know whether or whether, in this other proposition, the first proposed or received proposition or the first point will be made, because we see a particular diagnosis from the sector, and a plan of action very necessary, as is here stated, both from Mr. Arbulus, and from Mr. Hernández. I'd be sorry if the teams that support the government don't vote for it. But it looks like he's going out, though. So we'll wait for this diagnosis and this act of action. And what I mean is, I think, that it has been made clear, but, of course, we will give our protection to the first point, and to the second and third points, for all I have described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u62	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u63	Okay. Obviously, in my first speech, I have already made it clear that we did not agree with the need to draw up this comprehensive plan, because the annual report by Osalan on labour injury already collects quite thoroughly, distinguishing between sectors of activity, and so on, and so on, all the data, and also includes the gender perspective. And, in addition, we had the management plan, which is drawn up according to trade unions, employers, cooperatives and the administration itself, also annually, and, in addition, we have the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health 2015-2020, and we do not consider it necessary to have to carry out, in addition, another comprehensive plan. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has pointed out that no one has referred to causes, and no, is wrong. I have pointed out in my first speech some of those causes which may have an impact on labour sinestrality, and many of those causes stem from the precariousness of the labour market that occurred with the labour reform that you introduced. So, you come here saying "we don't know the causes," and so on, and so on. Yes, the causes have already been explained to you very clearly, and many of them are derived from that precariousness which has been suffered, precisely as a result of the labour reform which you approved and which, of course, it is the Socialist Government's intention to repeal, although, obviously, in the nine months of government which it has had, it has not had the opportunity, it has not had enough time to achieve it, and it will probably do so when it forms again after the general elections. And with regard to the figure of the territorial delegate, I have made it very clear that, of course, it has to be approved with an interprofessional agreement, and only by the autonomy of the parties, by agreement between employers and trade unions, can it be produced. In no case can it occur unilaterally by the Government, because it would have no validity, because, given that current legislation and regulations do not recognize that right to companies with less than six workers, if we did not have such an interprofessional agreement, it would be unfeasible. Because, if the figure of the territorial delegate is created by simply or exclusively the Basque Government, and an entrepreneur is presented at his workplace that territorial delegate, of course, would have every right to say "you in my workplace do not enter, because you do not have recognized powers, there is no interprofessional agreement that recognizes your figure, and therefore does not enter", and, moreover, the labour inspection could not even punish you, because that situation is neither characterized. With this, either through legislative reform alone or through an inter-professional agreement, the creation of that figure of the territorial delegate can arise, with which not everyone agrees, but, of course, if there was an inter-professional agreement between employers and trade unions, that figure would be fully valid, and its application could be required. And we considered that where it has to be dealt with and, moreover, where it is being dealt with is within the social dialogue table, and at that social dialogue table, of course, all trade unions are invited. Anyone who does not want to participate in this social dialogue table decides freely not to participate, but the possibility has it there. And that is where the debate is taking place and that is where that interprofessional agreement has to come from, where that figure is collected, as I say, so that it can be valid and that it can be applied in the field of companies. That is why we defended our amendment as a whole, because we saw that it was much more focused, and precisely focused on the creation of that figure of the territorial delegate where it has to be, which is at the social dialogue table, and that is why we will defend our amendment as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u64	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u65	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Well, I repeat again that, of course, we share the need to continue to make progress in taking steps, in trying to reduce labour sinestrality, and, in that sense, measures such as the one proposed today, such as the creation of this figure of the territorial delegate, well, we have already commented that it may seem to us to be a good initiative, and, in fact, it is an issue that is already within the scope of the social dialogue table. We believe that this is the forum in which we must try to evaluate, analyse and see the feasibility, the opportunity to create this figure and to give it the form it deems necessary by the trade union agents. It is true that at this table there are those who are, but, well, everyone will know how he assumes his responsibilities. In any case, there is a forum that has been reactivated, which I believe is an appropriate and good way to deal with issues like this. A figure which, in fact, can help to support these companies of less than six workers. And in this sense, we have no doubt. You tell us about a comprehensive plan, an ambitious plan. I don't know, tell me what issues that plan may have that you're not already dealing with by the government. We have briefly detailed all that is being done by the Government. There are tools for this, and now they propose to make a new plan, an integral plan; to duplicate work, it seems to us. I believe that there are sufficient tools at the disposal of the Government, the Administration, so that we can continue to make progress in what unites us all, in taking steps in order, in fact, to be able to make progress in reducing the labour sinestrality that we are all concerned with. And, in this sense, it is true that data on accidents at work nobody, that is, we don't like them, we don't like them, we all worry about them. And I have said it before, and it is true: last year there was an increase in accidents at work, a directly linked increase in relation to the working population, but I have also said it before and I repeat it, because I think it is important: this is an issue that needs to be analysed from a point of view or with a temporary dimension. Indeed, I do not want to go into a debate on figures and data, but it is that all groups have referred to it, and I think I have to insist again. It is important to bear in mind that the data that really counts is the incidence index, the one that really measures the sinestrality of our community, and, in this sense, the index is gradually decreasing, it is true that at a slow pace, but, well, it is showing a decreasing trend and this is also important to clarify it, because often the terms'synestrality' and 'accident' are used as if they were synonyms, and they are not the same; statistically what is measured is the incidence index, not the concrete number of accidents at work. And this incidence rate – I think Mrs Sánchez pointed out earlier in the first intervention –, this incidence rate last year even fell a little, if we see the data, and that data, in December 2017 and the same month in 2018, almost fell by 1%. It is true that it is a timid figure, but, well, it has to be interpreted as evidence that this is a decreasing trend in time, not at the pace we would like, sure; not with the momentum the Government wants, of course. With this, moreover, I do not want to take away a minimum of importance from reality; of course, nothing further from our intention. But I believe that our group has demonstrated today, and always demonstrates, as the Government constantly does with its work, that it is very clear that it is super important to continue to make progress in ensuring adequate working conditions, ensuring a safe and healthy living environment for all working people. And, in that regard, the Government continues to move forward and continues to take steps. It will always seem insufficient to us, it will always be insufficient to us, provided that there continue to be accidents at work, of course, and, above all, when the results are with serious consequences, but they have no doubt that the Government, well, in the Government there is a firm commitment that translates into constant work, to move forward in reducing this occupational disaster, which, of course, no one wants. And, Mr Arbulo, you have already shown what your disposition will be: you will support Elkarrekin Podemos. Nor am I too surprised at this trend that you have recently pointed out, whenever possible, that the Government is not going to win a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u66	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u67	Mrs Otalora, do not make me the victim, who here is not trying to make it visible that the Government does not have a majority or that it is left alone in a vote. Look, Mr Hernández has begun reading, and it is written in the justification of his initiative, what is the evolution of accidents at work, of accidents, of occupational disease in recent years: he is growing, he is growing and much, and you two have come down here to tell us that everything is already being done well, that this is wonderful and that we are going to stay this way and wait because there is already a plan in progress. Do you know what's going on? A useless policy that does not stop the increase of deaths of people in their jobs or going to their jobs; a useless policy that does not stop the growth and increase of occupational diseases. That's what's going on. When I say that what is not explained is the causes, I do not mean the interventions in Mrs Sánchez's rostrum on why the general indexes of sinestrality are growing. I do not come here to tell me his political speech that everything is due to the labor reform, which served us to create jobs, which is now being destroyed, and we will see how that also affects work accidents; we will see it in very few months. What I am referring to is simply that Osalan's reports do not have a forecast of the causes or correction of the reasons and causes of how certain sectors are increasingly punished by precarious employment year by year. Those are the missing causes; not the cause of why you do not want to vote for Elkarrekin's initiative We can; not the cause of why you want only delegates to believe within the social dialogue table, no; outside the social dialogue table, no; there we do not want, we do not want delegates. Do you only want delegates to be made at that table? But what are you worried about? Let the table work? Or that accidents at work diminish? Because there are also other social actors, representatives of certain professional fields, who can agree on the creation and protection of workers, which I believe is really important. Because, although Mr Hernández tells me that no, inside and outside that table, the interests of some workers' representatives, of some trade unions, are spurious. We all know that. And it is not the fundamental interest to protect the worker or the person seeking work. We have seen it in recent years as it evolves, as some of the prides of "we have taken the strike to the street, and what is needed is strike and conflict." That's what we read in the papers these days. No, there is no need for strike and conflict; what is needed is more jobs, better jobs and better paid workers. That's what we need. This country does not need strike and conflict, which we have had enough, supported or supported by trade unions with spurious interests. However, I will support your initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The discussion's over, and we're going to vote together like the Podemos. I've understood by point: the first, and the second, and the third. Then we vote. First we vote together the first point of Podemos' original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u69	So the first point is accepted. Next, we'll vote for points two and three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 20; the opponents, 55; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u70	So 2nd and 3 points have not been accepted. First point in theme list: "Provide another proposal by parlamental groups, in order to examine the future of the Esscal self-collector's sector, and to propose new public policies for the recovery of the sector. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Trouble has her word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u71	Thank you, Mrs. President of the Parliament. Congressmen, chief departments, good morning. It's a beautiful day we're really having today. The weather's a friend of mine. Every morning we turn on the radio, not only listen to the weather, but we hear the situation of the roads, the traffic troubles tell us where they are every morning. To come here today, most of you have had to drive up to town, because the cars are the most used to move in Europe. In any car, we're 14,000 kilometers a year. And if anyone comes near the public transport, he probably came by bus, because the buses are 55% of the public transport. Most of us have a vital vehicle, we're caring customers. And one of the most important openings in Europe is Geneva, the only one which is organized in Europe every year. It was just now in March, where we had so many inclinations and concerns. For instance, for instance, Ford and Jaguar Land Rover have not come this year, and have announced in January that thousands of workers would be sent from work. The effects of "Brexit" in car-making have already been visible in Geneva. The presence of electric cars was also strengthened in Geneva, because the cost of the unions is being lowered and the demand for the non-commissioned cars is being raised. The autonomous cars are coming, but they're not yet. On the one hand, technology isn't ready yet, and many drivers still want to drive them. 2025. The minibus absolutely autonomous, and it is announced by Astorn Martin's first sub-nonomous. Citroën presented Ami One who will upset the concept of movement in the city. As we have rental bicycles in our cities, app Why are we counting on Geneva? Because it's in Geneva that we read in any European reports about caring, because what we read is reality, and because it's in front of a disruptive change of motorcraft, this change will affect all of us. And when I say he'll make us, I don't mean that the blonde only as a client, but he'll also affect our industry, our worker, our corporations. How much of the production system has changed in our country, how can I tell you? Many of the manufacturing manufactures, which were yesterday, have disappeared: Basque, Naval, Altos Hornos, General Electric, Babcock, Astra... The list is longer. In the last decades, our Basque Country has passed from industrialized society to serve. And manufactures are many things: it's a work of industry. Industries must be the future, and thus it is necessary for us to discuss, to know, to agree, and to advance the measures. And today, in our community, it's a key to caring. Ours is a complete importance of caring. The sector is completely strategic, more than 300 companies, and, in those companies, 85,000 jobs. Of these, there are 40.800 people working in Euskal Autonomy Er member. These numbers are supposed to be 20% of the job industry. I mean, one of the five people in the industry is in the car. Here they manufacture a third of all the parts of the state, and we have two important manufacturers: Mercedes-Benz here, Gastemia's crew and Irizar. EAE EAE, to be a small country, to have a concentration like this in a series of Länder Lunder Länders. The auto-Mound segments are $18,000 billed EAE, from which they are created at 5.500 million. These numerals have become one of the main factors of Escal economics. The last year's data fixes on 5% of raw product the weight of the self-success industry. 90% of the local billing of automobiles is exported, and the Basque exports are located at 35%. And with all these macroeconomic data so positive, what does Euskal Herria Bildu do proposing a work paper? "Some will be asked." And the answer is what the sector tells us: uncertainty. The automotive sector is experiencing moments of clear uncertainty: from the threats of general recession to the role of Asian countries. The sector is facing a turning point. In the near future, it must join the digital revolution, connected and automated driving, environmental challenges, social changes and a growing globalization. And, in the face of the invisible hand of the market, we defend the visible hand of an industrial policy that aims to generate and distribute wealth; a visible hand that drives ambitious technological development as well as realistic; a visible hand that helps in the structural changes that the sector must undertake in its value chain; a visible hand aware of the impacts this will have on employment. How are we going to create new jobs in new fields that are already expected to disappear? And how are we going to change the knowledge and skills needed in the automotive sector? How are we going to do that? Traditional manufacturing processes will be transformed. We're in that revolution. We need to incorporate robotics, artificial intelligence, energy storage, electrification and bioeconomy, and we are facing changes that are going to accelerate. We have a lot of challenges. We have the changes in consumption habits, and here, two very clear trends. On the one hand, servitization, and, on the other, personalization. The analyses before us tell us that we are going to two very different types of products in the car. On the one hand, changes in habits lead to servitude. There are more and more people who have less interest in owning a car, but want the service that it entails. We'll have an app These types of cars that come will be fully standardized, interchangeable, very simple and available to be shared. This is part of it, but on the other hand, we have a sector of people who want more and more personalized cars, more and more customized cars, who want not to give up driving. This also leads to great changes in production plants. We will have changes that mean that those producing basic and identical cars will go to large productions with minimal variations, and the current forecast is that for Europe, that will mean at least 30%, and more than 50% in Asia and the United States. These plants will, to a greater extent, introduce automation, and further reduce the required labour force. And we have the other type of plant we will need, where you will have to work absolutely à la carte for what the customer wants, totally flexible; a segment, without a doubt, also much more expensive. All this is going to change the business model, obviously, but also the business model of the dealers. How will the sale of cars be done from now on? On the one hand, we will have large orders of large volumes, those cars that will work for the apps And, on the other hand, we will also have the online purchases, which will go up; at greater customization, it is more likely that the purchase will be made directly through a platform. We also have the challenge of digitization: cars have been incorporating more and more computing. We have brake control, door control, seatbelt control, speed regulators, GPS... The electronics inside the vehicle is nothing new. The number of decisions the on-board computer will take, however, will be increasing; on the one hand, of course, to increase safety standards, and, on the other, also, to make driving itself more and more enjoyable, simpler. This digitisation leads us to an increasing increase in digital hardware and software in vehicles, and that also means that computer engineering knowledge is going to have more and more weight in the automotive industry. And to this must be added the connectivity and automation of these vehicles. We will have internal sensors that will transfer information, and, through their Internet connection, the vehicles will connect with each other and with the infrastructures to give and obtain information. The speed of transformation, of course, will also be different by vehicle segment, but let's think about what this means. It's not just the changes inside the vehicle; we're going to have to change the infrastructure. Roads must begin to have sensors that we must equip to transmit this information. And to ensure all this connectivity, what we're talking about is 5G. This scenario needs 5G; with this, we also ask ourselves: how can at a time like this our semi-public bank Kutxabank sell Euskaltel shares? If we want to plan a 5G structure, how do we intend to do so? Are we going to ask these questions seriously? Are we going to condition the digital future of this country to that point? And how does all this affect component suppliers? Of course, component suppliers are fundamental in the industry in this country, and are currently responsible for 75-80% of the total value added within the vehicle. The type of companies we have is very relevant, and it is possible that you can increase this added value. This means that it is also going to move to the electronic part, which is now one third of that value, but the displacement is expected to be in that sense. And digitalization will not only affect it, but it will also affect production. The Internets of things, Big Dates or 3D printers will also lead to jobs. Are we going to make a proposal for a joint strategy in this regard, proposals for R & D investments aimed at this change? We also have variations in raw materials. One of the main objectives of the car industry is to lighten the weight. The use of new materials also brings aligned new changes in the way of producing plastics, aluminum and... Everyone has proved their usefulness in the car as well, but now, with electrification, new materials will be introduced, and we are thinking of rare metals for batteries. And when we've got a car, we'll always have to take it to the workshop for some time, to take the car's exams and repairs. In these cars, the digital part will be bigger and bigger, and the digital tools know that all are less survival than mechanical tools. And even in the workshops it is going to change what is required and knowledge. This also leads us to another key issue: the environmental variable. And the point is that I do not think the issue of technological neutrality has been properly raised here in the discussions either. Are we going to move in that direction? Are we going to abandon a prioriism to analyze technologies? Including the ones that aren't mature, of course. Take down the missions, increase the survival energy, minimize the environmental impact. If there are conditions set. Convert economy into a circular (... We must also make our economy. That's why we have electric cars on one side. It is a direct relation between the sum of the economic level of countries and the number of electric cars, which are purchased by higher incomes. And there are also countries which have started all the electrical infrastructure necessary. These substructures marked the rules of Europe in 2014. And how are we here on the side of this development? We also have certain commitments to climate change: less broadcast, better improve the quality of the air, or use clean technology on production processes. We know that the final goal is zero emission, and that transition has to begin sometime. In an orderly manner, in a settled manner, much better. And that's what we want to talk about. For a quick review: we are talking about thousands of people working in hundreds of businesses, people in assembly chains, and the changes that are going to happen, the reduction in employment in these areas, the tools companies and the changes in raw materials. We talk about changes in knowledge needs and requirements; from current electromechanics to robotics, to Big Data; digitization; apps And the question is: will we continue to listen to the time on the radio and the state of the roads, even though this may tell us from now on the computer on board? Will we just be car users and talk on those terms? Or are we going to be protagonists in the world of automotive? We believe that we must be protagonists in that future. We do not want others to make decisions for us, but we want a proactive and consensual industrial policy. Hence we have brought the necessity of poncie to this parliamentary law, with sector of open conversation, with workers' representatives, among all political parties, namely Baden-Württembergs, and some Länder. And we're not the only ones saying that. Not long ago the sector said it, and it was in the headlines: "El secor de la automoción passa pactar traicion," Great modifications follow; employment and wealth are at stake; the future may be written, and we believe it is time to write between all hands. There's a phrase: "To go faster, go alone, go further, go on the team." It's time to go far.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u72	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. They say that 130 years ago the kaiser Guillermo II, when he was taught the first vehicle, the first car, said the kaiser: "The car is a temporary phenomenon; I believe in the horse". This statement, which has passed into history as an example of how a political leader, a political leader, employs the ostrich tactic in order not to see the changes in reality, could perfectly apply to what is beginning to happen, to what is happening with the European car industry. We prefer what we have, and we do not see that changes come and that changes are inevitable. And therefore, as Mrs. Thingon has said, the European industry has so many challenges before it, and they are global challenges, global challenges, social challenges, technological challenges, and industrial challenges. Some of these challenges facing the European car industry have to do with the product they are manufacturing right now, with what; and others have to do with how, how they are manufacturing it. But both are, in any case, inevitable challenges, challenges that people are not putting on the street, challenges that are not putting on those – let's say – who are critical with the car; they are challenges that are putting on the evolution of society, human evolution. Today, 100 million vehicles are being sold worldwide, but it is not said that a million or a half million more vehicles are being manufactured each year than they are being sold; that is, today, there is already a global overcapacity in vehicle production, which leads to many vehicle production plants being in production regimes of 30, 40 or 50 % of their actual capacity. In the middle of the crisis in 2011, the Nissan plant in Ávila produced 10% of its capacity, and yet one million more vehicles are produced than are sold in the world. Therefore, there are inevitable challenges that lead us to think that not to face them is to face what already in the petrochemical industry, which goes a bit ahead, has been called the savannah syndrome, and it is that the automobile factories, like the refineries in Europe, the oil refineries, are like a herd of zebras that advance through the savannah, and their aim, today, is no longer to advance the former, but not to be the latter, because the latter is eaten by the lion. And that is the challenge that they are going to face, which many car production plants are going to start facing in Europe, the same thing that is already happening with many oil refineries; we already have more than 30 closed oil refineries in Europe. That is a reality that comes to us, whether we want it or not; Mrs Larrion has said so. And what is the role of the Basque institutions, the role of European institutions, the role of the Spanish institutions? Well, it's been about not demanding anything and giving everything to the industry. The role of the institutions – the European, Spanish or Basque institutions – has, today, been to care for the hen of gold eggs, because, in fact, the automotive industry has been an industry that has given us and gives us wealth, it has been an industry that has given us and gives us quality jobs, and it has been an industry that gives us, gives us and we hope that it will continue to give us taxes that allow us to finance other services. But the institutions have not asked for anything from industry in Europe. They have taken a look when the European automotive industry has set traps with engine emissions, given them everything they have asked for on the basis of PIVE plans and renewed plans to renew European fleets, and this has led to the complacency, self-complacency of a large part of the industry. And there was a writer who said that "success leads to complacency, and complacency leads to failure," and in that thesis we find ourselves today. The crossroads facing the European car industry right now is that it has to make big investments to keep the business going, and I am referring to Industry 4.0; it has to deal with a mature product with a relatively small capacity to innovate, and I am referring to engines, both diesel and gasoline; and it has to deal with much more flexible competitors, who question both the business model – and I am referring to dealer networks – and the organisational and decision-making model that European car plants have right now, always centralized on the main basis. And the question is how manufacturers and institutions will cope with this crossroads, because the alternatives are very simple: manufacturers either adapt, evolve and innovate, or wait for the inevitable changes that will come to them. And let us bear in mind that we are not only talking – and Mrs Larion has already said this – about assembly plants. In Euskadi, in Mercedes-Benz, 5,000 workers work; in component plants, seven times more work, 35,000 people. The challenge is therefore not only for car manufacturers, but also for components. And, so far, at that crossroads, a part of those manufacturers, if not all, have devoted themselves to conditioning public policies, public policies in the sense of claiming that everything remains the same, and this is a futile endeavour. They would have done better to condition public policies to adapt and lead change. Indeed, adapting and leading change is an uncertain path, but to expect everything to remain the same is sure failure. And that also challenges us to the role that the institutions will have to take at this crossroads. I was asking Councilwoman Tapia – who is not here today – about the renewal plan, about the objective of the renewal plan that the Basque Government has recently set in motion. That plan doesn't help our car manufacturing industry, it doesn't help the Mercedes, because the Mercedes exports between 85 and 90% of its production. Nor does it help the Basque industry; it does not help the Spanish industry. In 2014, an analysis was made of which vehicles had been assisted by the PIVE plan that the Government of Spain had launched. Well, I'll tell you what: the best-selling vehicle with the PIVE plan was a vehicle manufactured in Romania, and the third best-selling vehicle was manufactured in France. Of the 44,000 vehicles supported by the renewal plan, more than half were produced and assembled and assembled outside Spain. In other words, the PIVE and Renovation plans do not serve to reactivate the Basque industry, nor the Spanish industry. It's fake. It's badly spent money. It is a misguided orientation of public policies, a misguided orientation because the necessary reflection has not been done, because it has not really been analysed where we need to go. This analysis can be made, as Mrs Larion has said, as has been done in Baden-Württemberg, the main Land And the answers will come from innovation, from the hand of innovation, from the hand of support, and from the social influence. We need to look for innovation, sustainability and impact, the social value of this industry; we need to look for more efficient and functional vehicles; we need to look for more flexible and advanced production; we need to look for a real circular economy that gives the automotive industry steel, aluminium, copper and the materials it needs to make the batteries. But, ladies and gentlemen, and with this I am finishing, in Euskadi we cannot continue to give sticks of blind as has been the renewed plan; we cannot do so, because we are playing a lot. To govern is to lead the transition and the changes, not to the dictate of the industry, but to the industry; to govern is to help the industry choose the right course; and to govern is to plan the future and transition of this industry. Leaving all this in the hands of industry and not taking this leadership is a risk that we cannot afford, because, as I say, we play a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing in the district of the teams that have no corrections, the Basque Popular, Mrs. l'Espez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. We are immersed in an economic slowdown. That's on top of the table of all analysts right now, economic analysts. The industry's halt alerts the arrival of a new crisis. The sector is entering recession for the first time since 2013, mainly due to the drop in exports and the impact of emission standards on the automotive industry. Industrial production statistics are disturbing. Last September started a downward trend that led to a 5.9% drop in the last month of 2018, December 2018. This decline did not occur since 2012 – they remember – in the midst of the economic recession and when Spain was about to be rescued. It is true that industrial production is falling throughout Europe, but in Spain it does more than double. The factories have lost their jobs for the first time since 2012. Industry was the only sector that destroyed jobs in 2018. Regulatory changes in the automotive sector have led to significant bottlenecks in many production plants. Spanish car factories in January accounted for 1.4% less units placed on the market than in the previous year, and exports fell by 2.7%. In Spain we have a powerful car industry; it is one of the most relevant in manufacturing. The action of the Sánchez government, the war on diesel, has put the dot on the automotive sector and is having very damaging effects. It has to be borne in mind that manufacturing and industry have a drag-on effect in other sectors, including services, and this can lead to a very significant drop trend. In the Basque Country, the automotive component sector is one of the most innovative and competitive. Its management levels are the most advanced in the world, with a high degree of efficiency and efficiency; more than 300 companies that charge around 18 billion; employment for more than 85.000 people, 40,800 of whom do so in the Basque Country. Invoicing in the automotive sector accounts for 25% of Basque GDP and almost 50% of the total automotive component sector in Spain. 90% of its sales are international, and more than half of them are generated outside Spain. New factories have been incorporated abroad: 284 production plants in 29 countries, both in emerging and traditional markets. We have in the Basque Country a unique centre for value generation for the automotive sector: the AIC, Automotive Intelligence Center, focusing its work on issues such as competitive intelligence, R & D+i, training, technology and competitive development. 30 organizations and more than 950 people work in their facilities. A month ago he celebrated his ten years of activity. In addition, the Basque Country has 48 multinationals in the sector, with important centres of competition that bring value to the industry as a whole. We manufacture 8 million tons of steel, we have 80 machine-tool manufacturers, 70 mechanizers, as well as matrix makers, equipment manufacturers, training centers, four universities and eleven technology centers. 70% of automotive companies have R+D+i departments, and more than 3,000 people are dedicated to these tasks. 100 % of companies have ISO 9000 certificates or equivalent, 90 % are certified by a reference in the ISO 76/16949, and 51 % have ISO 14000 certification. Ladies and gentlemen, this is so important in the air. Indeed, the automotive sector is facing major challenges – these have been listed here. We are at a point of historical inflection, the connected vehicle; indeed, a world of incognites to solve and walk the way to the autonomous vehicle. A lot of things we don't know, how are they going to work out? The reduction of emissions, compliance with European legislation is making many alarms go away; that is so. On this subject, in the appearance of trade union representatives from the automotive sector of the Basque Country at the General Councils of Álava, questions were asked, questions for which they, who are in the sector, had, in some cases, no answer. They said: Are we focusing on the real problem? And they demonstrated with data, with the IDAE guide, the difference in emissions between one gasoline vehicle and another diesel, and it was shown that CO emissions 2 depend more on the specific model of the vehicle than on the engines themselves. Half of the particles in the air come from brakes, clutches and tyres. Do we have legislation to regulate mechanical wear emissions? Why are we looking elsewhere in this matter? Why is it not also a question? And they were also wondering: what will be the engine of the future? Is it going to be electric? Is it going to be combustion? Is it going to be the explosion? The hydrogen stack? Ladies and gentlemen, there are incognites. A lot. The current electrical infrastructure is insufficient in engine, in chargers, in charging time – three hours of charging for 50 kilometers; 12 hours of connection for total charging. And how does this affect the employment, employment and labour impact that this has? Industry warns about what has been adopted in Strasbourg in reducing emissions and warns of the impact it will have on the amortisation of jobs in the sector. The German trade union – as Germany has been mentioned – Ingemetal and also the Fraunhofer Institute jointly published a study warning that only in Germany did the jump to electricity put at risk 210,000 jobs of the 840,000 workers in the automotive sector in the region. But it is that, in December 2018, Ford communicates the closure of its Bordeaux plant. Dismiss 850 workers. Ford also begins the adjustment in Europe of the suppression of two models. 1,600 workers fired in Germany. Volkswagen will eliminate one third of jobs in Hanover and Emden; 7,000 of the 22,000 existing jobs. Nissan's staff in Barcelona is asking for political help. The plant is in 40% production. Tesla, ladies and gentlemen, will fire 3,200 employees to make Model 3 profitable cheap. The company's shares have fallen by 13%. Mercedes, our industry in the Basque Country, is the first industry, and that's why we mention it. And we are proud of it, and it gives us many opportunities for economic development and training and employment: 5,000 direct jobs, 15,000 indirect jobs. From September to January, 800 jobs were destroyed. If we applied the study of the Ingemetal union, the majority of the metal sector in Germany, to the electric vehicle, in Mercedes, of 5,000 direct jobs would move to 3,750. And the 15,000 indirect jobs would be reduced to 11,250. That is, one job would be lost for every four. 5,000 amortized jobs are destroyed – the summary in Álava – with the projection being made in other areas. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to prioritise the maintenance of employment. It's fundamental; if not, where are we going? And we will have to see how we adapt the legislation, when we adapt it, but prioritising the maintenance of employment and industrial activity. Otherwise, we will not fulfill something that is constantly being said: we cannot leave anyone lying on the road. That's destruction of society. We therefore consider it essential that the agents in the automotive sector come to the Basque Parliament. Yesterday we recorded the appearance of representatives of ACICAE, the cluster of automotive in this House. And we also had a list of potential representatives in this House of Automotive. EH Bildu, in her initiative, proposed the creation of a paper, analysing the future of the automotive sector, as Mrs Larion has explained here. The almost general reality of the speeches of this House – I am not going to say all of them – but, in many cases not relating to bills, is quite frustrating, because in many cases they do not end. There is no report, there are no arguments – sometimes there are arguments, sometimes there are no arguments; we do not know why certain reports are not made –, the presentation is paralyzed, the legislature is over, the deadlines are extended, and it is a total lack of respect for those speakers who participate and do not then have a report from the presentation, something where it is seen in their contribution to having responded yes to that invitation to participate in a presentation. That's why – I've said it many times – closed, opaque, lightless, and tachygraphic papers don't like them. They serve us to self-anaesthetize, to devote an opaque time to it, because, as I say, in those cases where a report comes out, very well, but, what about all those we have in which we have not reported? Our initial vote on the classic paper proposed by EH Bildu did not like it, and, in fact, it was going to be no, but the compromise amendment that we are asked to make of an open paper, with light and stenographers, we believe it changes the vital. It satisfies us and we can vote for it. And, in fact, we're going to vote for it. It is not a question of whether the government wins or loses a vote; the question is whether the automotive sector is important enough to participate in an open paper, with light and stenographers. We believe that it is, and therefore our vote will be in favour of the compromise amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u77	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs Larrion, the Basque Socialists have analysed your proposal and we have also taken into account how the future of the Basque automotive sector is being approached as far as public institutions are concerned. And we have also linked the approach of that compromise amendment that you put forward with Elkarrekin We can with the action being taken by the Government and with the various initiatives that we have discussed and adopted in the plenary of this House as well. And we believe that its initiative, that the transacted amendment does not add a plus or an extra to the requirements that have already been made to public institutions and to the work that the government has to do with the automotive sector, beyond asking, as its amendment says, for the sector to anticipate European regulations. Our reasons for not supporting his initiative lie, first of all, in the leadership that both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government are maintaining so that the automotive sector can meet in a planned, orderly and coordinated manner with the interests of society the challenges of this ecological transition that is already under way; a leadership with consensual actions with the sector, such as the Strategic Plan for Integrated Support to the Automotive Sector, which has just been approved by the Government of Spain; the MOVES plans; the plans are being renewed, which are also being implemented and will begin their practical work within a few days. Secondly, we must take into account the initiative we adopted in this Parliament last October 2018 on diesel tax. We were then discussing the subject of diesel taxation and its close and direct involvement in the automotive sector, in which duties were placed on the Basque Government. And, thirdly, we cannot overlook two issues that we also adopted in this Parliament a few weeks ago: on the one hand, the Basque Energy Sustainability Act, and the non-legislation proposed by a very large majority of the Basque Parliament, with regard to the Basque Energy Pact. We discussed this issue on 14 March, which included, in addition to an analysis, an express resolution on the Basque industry, in which the automotive sector was of great relevance, and there were very practical issues to be carried out in that Basque Energy Pact. And the Basque Socialists what we have very clearly is the weight of the automotive sector in the economy, the relationship that the governments of both Spain and Euskadi have with the industrial sector. And therefore, we are convinced that what is going to happen to the automotive sector in Europe, Spain and Euskadi has and will have to do with much, and substantially, the energy future of Europe, Spain and Euskadi. And we start from the fact that the automotive sector is one of the main engines of the European economy, because it accounts for 6% of the gross domestic product. The automotive industry generates almost 13 million jobs in Europe – that accounts for 5.3% of the total number of workers. Therefore – it is true – we are faced with a sector of great importance. That is why the Basque and Spanish governments are not alienated from this reality in the automotive sector. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has maintained a direct dialogue with the automotive sector to reach this Strategic Plan for Integrated Support to the Automotive Sector, which was approved this month in March; a plan that is justified in its exhibition part in the three major challenges facing the automotive sector: the impact of digitization, hyperconnectivity in productive processes, artificial intelligence and even recent changes in the business models of the sector. Another challenge is a decarbonized economy and a more circular economic model. And, as a third challenge, there is globalisation and international competition, which effectively forces the sector to innovate, renew and harness its potential to occupy a relevant position among European and global leaders. In Spain, the automotive sector accounts for 300,000 direct jobs and over two million indirect jobs. Eight out of ten cars manufactured in Spain are exported, and our competitors in this sector and the countries to which we export are setting a deadline to ban combustion cars around 2030-2040. The Basque Government has also recognized that the automotive sector is a key sector for the present and future development of the Basque industry. In Euskadi, the sector is represented by the ACICAE cluster, which throughout the past crisis established a long-term strategy with a comprehensive action plan in several areas, above all to ensure the viability of all types of companies affected by the future of the automotive sector and the crisis that was going on. The objectives of the Euskadi automotive cluster are: to improve the strategic vision of the automotive sector, to promote cooperation between partner companies in different fields, to facilitate entry into new markets, and to obtain, without a doubt, more customers, by promoting the training and adoption of new advanced management models, by increasing the R & D & i level of the sector and of the companies, and to attract local, state and European projects that bring value to the sector. Mrs López de Ocariz said earlier that the Basque sector of automotive components is one of the most competitive and innovative; that it makes more than EUR 18 billion; that it employs more than 85 000 people, 40,000 in the Basque Country; that it has an international presence and that it has 48 multinationals in the sector, with important centres of competition, which also bring value to the whole industry. 70% of the car companies in Euskadi have R+D+i departments, with an average turnover rate of 5% for these activities, and there are more than 3,000 people dedicated to these R+D+i tasks. It is therefore clear that such a globalized sector is also vulnerable to developments in international markets, but also this same globalization can be its main strength in overcoming difficulties. We share the Basque Socialists' assessment with the government that the car is going through an extraordinary moment and that it needs a maximum definition of its future strategy in Spain, in Euskadi and with the whole of Europe. The Government is also working together with the sector on several fronts in Euskadi, participating in the new competitiveness acceleration strategy, which highlights the electrification of vehicles at their various levels, not to mention other systems, such as gas or hydrogen, and taking into account the reality of time frames and giving an opportunity to technological neutrality. In Brussels, the delegation of the Basque Government proposed to activate the group of leading automotive regions, whose aim is to influence the European Commission to take measures to help strengthen the position of the European sector. The car industry in Euskadi has been and is a technological leader and is preparing to respond to these challenges. But it needs a maximum definition of the future strategy, both in Europe and in Spain and in Euskadi. Secondly, another reason not to support his initiative is the debate and agreement that we reached last October on the rise of diesel taxes, because we approved at the time, a few months ago, by broad consensus, an amendment in which, in addition to showing our concern about the impact that the delicate situation in some segments of the automotive sector could have on the automotive industry and the auxiliary industry, we urged the various public and private actors to act responsibly to avoid adverse effects on industry and employment in Euskadi. In particular, in point 4 of that agreement, the various competent administrations were urged to take measures to help the automotive sector evolve and maintain employment, including renewal plans and other measures to speed up the introduction of alternative fuel vehicles, by putting in place measures to overcome barriers and the reluctance to change – some spokesmen said here that they did not serve those plans – so it was one of the agreements that we reached on 18 October. In the fifth point of that agreement, the Basque Government was urged, in view of the new paradigm of mobility in the near future, to continue to deepen the process of reflection, aimed at identifying the challenges, opportunities, threats and weaknesses of the Basque industry related to mobility, in general, and automotive, in particular. And those conclusions of that reflection would be the basis for strategic planning that would lead to new challenges, diversifying employment and productive activity. We said it and we approved it. And, in March, we discussed parliamentarians on the Basque Energy Pact, and we reached a very broad agreement, in a text that was fucked by all the political groups, except the People's Party, which abstained, and that was not an agreement that was neither easy nor exempt from political and managerial commitment. It also called for how to set up the expert committee, what this expert committee had to do, and the need to revise Basque energy strategy 3E2030 in order to adapt it to the European Union's 2030 objectives, specifically with work on industry and the automotive sector. Well, then, that commission of experts was given a one-year deadline, which would draft that Basque energy pact to become carbon neutral by 2050. It was going to analyse sectors such as mobility, agriculture, industry, housing, territorial planning, and this would be included in the main text of that commission, or in the form of annexes. Therefore, we also have the Euskadi Energy Sustainability Act, which makes a special reference to the industrial sector, sustainable mobility, with concrete and specific commitments. Therefore, there are initiatives already under way, there are already agreed initiatives, there is leadership from both the governments of Spain and the Basque Government, and we therefore believe that this presentation that you are offering us for the period of one year and that makes a number of conclusions, we believe that it does not contribute any more to the work that is already entrusted and entrusted to both the Basque Government and this Parliament. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u79	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good noontides. Although it would be more worthwhile to talk about where the conversations and commitments made in this House go, really, as that has more to do with ethics and we have come to talk about automotive, I will talk about automotive. And let's start with the main thing: the car sector in Basque, strategic sector, is today, from a technological point of view, positioned as a benchmark and vanguard in Europe, what is said is said. And this current situation has come about following a major crisis in 2008, as in so many other sectors, although, in this case, a long-term strategy was established, which was designed and implemented through ACICAE, the cluster that brings together the entire sector. In those years, measures were designed to improve the productive capacity of enterprises, professional skills, assist in their rehabilitation, internationalize the sector and, above all, promote the modernisation of processes and products through R & D+i. First conclusion: if ACICAE was able to design a way of acting together with the administration to get out, by the way, with the strength of that systemic crisis, it also seems possible – and we understand it in our group – that they can get out of the crisis that may arise from new problems without needing aid, not even that of this Parliament. In spite of everything, and even though the car is going through a good time, that does not take away – and has already been said here; there has been talk of a lot of things that can happen – that we must continue to carry out a maximum definition of their future strategy; indeed, not only in Euskadi, but in Europe as a whole, because we interact permanently and depend on decisions and strategies in very different areas. And it is that we must turn around different types of circumstances that continue to entangle and complicate the future to a global sector that is fundamental to Euskadi, both for employment and for wealth generated. For example, we can think of the diesel crisis, or whether certain statements with which some authorities estimate or reject the use of certain fuels are more or less frivolous and put the sector on the trigger, short-term or structurally, or whether the closure of cities to car traffic and the promotion of new mobility systems are causing a change in the perception and social uses of the private car, and all this causes and/or will cause short-term or structural declines in the production of car companies, with the consequent loss of employment and wealth in general. And to all that, which is concrete in terms of environmental sustainability, technological-industrial capabilities and consumer demand for the future around the world, we should add the tense debate on trade relations between the United States and Europe right now, and all this has created an environment that is really complex and that needs to be overcome. And, in this respect, I would like to say again: the Basque automotive sector, through ACICAE, together with the Government, has been working for some time on the new strategy for accelerating competitiveness, in which, above all, all the projects for electrification of vehicles at their various stages are highlighted, in order to go together to discuss at European level, which is where the first round is to be decided. Indeed, the Basque Government, already from the Brussels delegation, has activated the group of leading regions in the automotive sector, with the aim of influencing the Commission to take measures to help strengthen the European sector. I mean, there was a crisis and it's over. There are problems and efforts are being made to overcome them, all in conjunction between the Government and ACICAE, i.e. between the Administration and the sector. This complexity of problems and possible solutions that surround us will not necessarily improve because a paper is created in the Basque Parliament. And that's the second conclusion. It is that the issue is already being addressed from afar by the government, as I have said, with the sector, which really knows how to analyse the problem and its possible solutions from the perspective that it really has, besides that nothing will solve only from here, problems that – I have said it too – go far beyond the borders of our country. The presentation would only be one more forum, which, sooner or later – and I think the second rather than the first – would end up trying to entangle the serious work that is already being done. In addition, it states in the Rules of Procedure of this House, in Rule 51.5, that: "The plenary of the House may agree to the creation of papers for the preparation of reports, as well as for the follow-up of matters of interest. These papers will be composed of one representative from each parliamentary group." The original proposal of EH Bildu says: "The parliamentary presentation, with the people representing the workers, listening to the contributions of companies and experts in the sector", etc. Well, the argument that the translation is not well done is often used. Let's go to the original in Basque: "Legebiltzar-lantalde honek, sektore honetako langileen ordezkariekin, enpresen eta arloko adituen ekarpenak entzunez...". I mean, let's do the same thing. Let us see, if the presentation is to be made by the Members of Parliament, then let that be proposed. That if then they have to come representatives of the workers, managers of companies in the sector, users, public representatives, the Archbishop of Calahorra, who has to come, then that is something that will have to determine the presentation once formed. What I had never seen was a paper in which, from the point of view of drawing out – and bearing in mind that I have absolutely nothing against them – are the representatives of the workers, and then, already, if that, some experts can come. And, man, that essay –recognize me – did not encourage much to accept this presentation. It is a good thing that the amendment by Podemos and the compromise they have made, well, it fixes the matter and frames what is in principle a formal presentation. By proposing papers that are not left, although it seems better to do so when there is no better way to address a matter. But to do so as has been done, as an electoral opportunity, taking advantage of the fact that, in addition, the largest car company is here in Gasteiz, and the one it proposes is a candidate for Gasteiz, or as a method of staying well with I do not know who, man, these aspects are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament to make a presentation. It is obvious that, although there are many reasons for the successive crises or misadjustments of the automotive industry in a constantly changing world, which requires continuous adaptations, the current possible crisis comes basically from the gradual abandonment of fossil fuels as the pure survival of the world. And to whom do I transfer my third, final and most relevant motivation not to approve your proposal? The new profound change that is going to take place, which is already taking place, is that of modifying combustion engines by electric motors, and that, really, is not a change; it is a revolution. And I will not even go into indefinite variables, as for when we want to force it to be so, when we will have enough electrolines, when engines will be produced with sufficient autonomy, etc., aspects all of them, and many more, basic and essential, so that the automotive industry prepares its adaptations, calculates costs and timetables for its modifications; aspects which, by the way, none of them will resolve in the paper that we can make up in this Parliament. In today's debate, in any case, I would like to stress that this major change depends on new sustainable mobility and new ways of generating and spending energy. That is to say, it is fully, absolutely, in the formulation of the energy pact signed just two weeks ago in this House, which speaks of a broad debate on energy transition, it speaks of the road map for the Basque economy to achieve neutral carbon emissions, it speaks of the fact that the working group that is believed to include an analysis of mobility, it speaks of the energy transition bringing about changes in the productive fabric, and, therefore, it asks the committee of experts to be satisfied that it will work to ensure that this transition is coordinated with industrial policy, exactly what the presentation is called for. In other words, the problem of the car is directly linked to the energy transition process and, therefore, to the signed pact. It does not seem appropriate, therefore, to try to change what has already been agreed, even if you are really experts, because as positions approach, on the one hand, you ask us for help in creating and supporting bridges, and, on the other hand, you are putting dynamite in order to pull out the pillars of those or other bridges. If you laughed at the renewed plan of the Basque Government, but then you heard Mercedes trade unionists say that, even though it seemed rather humble, it seemed phenomenal and that this was the way to help industry and the workers, while seeing that plan – according to the media this week – has triggered the sale of cars, do not come to look good now creating this paper together with the workers, because, wanting to get out of a mess, you are entering into the task of carrying on a recently signed pact that does not at all contemplate the creation of papers to deal partially with subordinate matters of the energy transition. Bridges carry many roads, and they can't open one and explode another. The bridge is a set in harmony, not necessarily aesthetic in the Calatrava style, that one ends up skating and falls; no. They have to be robust and safe. But, look, let's see if you're learning how to build bridges and hold them, you who've been destroying them for too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In the turn of the answers, representative of EH Collect, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u81	Yes, thank you, and good noon again. Bridges. Do you know that we will also have to equip the bridges with 5G technology and that we will also have to equip different systems that give us information continuously? We want to talk about this in the paper, not precisely to make another kind of allegory, but to talk about realities and futures, not to look to the past. I would say that I was surprised, Mr Tellería, when you made the reference to what was an electoral proposal, especially because, normally, electoral proposals are very good, and it would be a recognition that the proposal is very good. But he was going to make a joke that, if it were an electoral proposal, we would have almost here the BBC broadcasting live the news that a paper is going to be created to work on something, and we all know that it's not usually great news that work groups are set up to announce something. But do you know what would be something for the BBC to really broadcast live from now on to so many TV channels? That this government should decide not to confront Parliament again and decide to work with Parliament. That would be great news. You have been deciding for many months to deal systematically with this Parliament. We live in a non-presidential parliamentary system, where the government is chosen by this Parliament, and where logic would indicate that we should work with Parliament, not against Parliament. I believe that you, once again, the groups supporting the Government, have decided to go against Parliament, and yet today Parliament has decided to work for something. I think that's working for the future. Many references are made here to the Energy Pact, which we have proposed, and I believe that it is indeed the way, as you well acknowledge, to work. Undoubtedly, we will also move forward – and I think we will all agree – in that, where we have the points of intersection between the automotive and energy presentations, we will not work double; let us order the works very well and let us set aside. There's plenty of work already per se They also told us that they have never seen a working group where workers are counted. That's why we were referring precisely to the Land. But also, as you said, you establish only government and companies, and where do you leave to the academy and where do you leave all research and development? And where do they leave the other agents who, of course, have much to say? We are very concerned – and we have all mentioned it to you – about the potential loss of work that the changes in the car are going to entail. That is why it is so important to create this paper, and also for another issue, when it is said that ACICAE is sufficient to present the future for companies. Of course, ACICAE will be a key player, but in order to bring forward the future of new businesses, new sectors to work and so that workers who lose their jobs can do so, I do not think it is appropriate that we place that burden on ACICAE; I think that is entirely up to us all. And that would be the leadership of an industrial policy where it does not put all the weight precisely on the companies that exist, but demands for itself a leadership that involves talking about employment, talking about innovation, talking about creating new sectors, as at some point in time it has been done elsewhere, it has been done here, but it is not happening right now. We're not just saying it. At the state level too, said Mrs Corcuera, that it is enough what the government is doing with companies. Well, of course, when they came to Brussels and talked to absolutely all the parliamentarians, with everyone, they didn't say "we don't want to talk to the rest of the parties." Quite the opposite. We have been asked to work together for all, and we were all asked to work with them. So let us start listening to the representatives of the sectors, who, when we meet with them, do not say exactly what the groups supporting the Government are saying here. What do they ask of us all? Let's wake up. What do they ask of us all? Let's get involved. What do they ask of us all? Let us recognize the reality before us. What do they ask of us all? Let us, indeed, do what we have to do from the responsibilities entrusted to us by the people who trust us. And, from these responsibilities, and knowing that we have to do this policy, it is what we are proposing here: an excellent opportunity where, indeed, the work that everyone is doing, including the different departments of the Basque Government, what a doubt it is, that they will be given the opportunity to tell us in that presentation everything that they are developing, where the different representatives can tell us about all the sectors, that it is not going to be just industry, that it is going to be knowledge, and that it can be up to, as it was said, health, and let us see everything that is being provided. But they will not be the only ones who will have to appear, they will not be the only ones who can contribute and, of course, they will be important, but the question is to transcend the limitations they want to impose on us, to go much more there. The example of Europe goes in that direction. The working group that was formed to analyse the needs of automotive did not comply with the closed schemes proposed here by the parties that support the Government. They are, of course, more ambitious in all respects, more socially ambitious, more ambitious in objectives. I believe that this is what we are going to get out of here today, and, of course, when the presentation begins, let us hope that, beyond the initial lock that they must not participate, we can all contribute, including, I invite the two parties that support the Government also to make positive contributions, which I believe is what we really are required to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u82	Thank you, ma'am. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u83	In this debate that we are going to close now, it seems to me good news that we are talking about the creation of a parliamentary paper that will be supported by groups that, possibly, have a totally opposite view of what solutions have to be. Certainly, Mrs López de Ocariz and I are not going to agree on how to deal with the diesel crisis, but we do agree to make a presentation on a matter of undoubted interest in listening to those who do know, and from there a report that can help the Basque Government and the rest of the Basque institutions make the decisions that matter. And I think that's fundamental. Mrs López de Ocariz and I will be able to discuss on another occasion whether or not to drive the electric vehicle we must put an end to the diesel, and vice versa. I think they are complementary, and the future is beyond doubt that it is of the electric vehicle; the issue is how we make that transition. As much as we now want to sell diesel or petrol vehicles, we have to, as far as the year goes – and we only have for three months – the price of gasoline has increased by 8%, and that of diesel by almost 10%. That is to say, possibly what is causing the sale of diesel and petrol vehicles is no longer the minister for the ecological transition, which the industry has already commissioned to fulminate, but the cheap fuel is beginning to be history, and the price of crude oil in 2016 has already reached what it had in 2006 at the door of the great recession of 2008. Perhaps, if we started to assess these issues, then we would have to consider whether the resources that have been used – and what Mrs Corcuera said – for the renewal plan would not have been more effective in other policies, such as, for example, in policies for the development of electric batteries here in Europe, which is the main problem for the European car industry to develop electric vehicles. Yes, I agree with Mr Telleria that the future of the car industry, the future of sales, is not just diesel. It is a multiplicity of factors, including the fact that in most large cities the passage to petrol and diesel vehicles is being restricted by environmental issues, by population health issues, and that there have been reports for years warning that this change is inevitable. I have here one edited by one of the leading German technology consultants, Roland Berger, in 2016, and says – although it is in English, I translate it – "The evolution invariably results in the extinction of car species unable to adapt. Make sure you're one of the next generation's players." This is known to all industries: the German, the French; of course, also those that are installed in Spain and in Euskadi. It is not a novelty that the transition is going to have to do yes or yes. The issue is how we are dealing with it here in Euskadi, how governments are dealing with it, how we have here a Socialist Party that defends the renewed plan of the Basque Government to buy diesel vehicles, when it has the Socialist Government of Spain itself a MOVEA plan, exclusively aimed at buying electric vehicles. Who's wrong, Mrs. Corcuera? Mr. Sanchez or Mrs. Tapia? Do you know that? I think you know that, too. He knows it like I do. And you know how I – and Mr. Telleria also knows – have come out this week that the Automotive Intelligence Center aspires to lead the research for electrification and digitization of vehicles of the future. In other words, the Bizkaia Parliament is on the one hand, and the Basque Government and Mrs Tapia are on the other. There was a crisis here in 2008, indeed, in the automotive sector. And in 2018, 10 years later, there will be again. And the question is how our institutions are going to react, because to say, as Mr Tellería says, that the industry is already taking care of itself, to give up piloting this transition, to give up piloting it, is that we happen to have a news like last Thursday, which is: "Ford takes part of the production of a vehicle from Valencia to Mexico". And then, when this happens, that we haven't created any papers, we haven't done anything, what are we going to do? PNL to toast to the sun? Will you do it, Mrs. Corcuera, if you are in opposition? That is what we have to think: if we start working for once before the problem arrives, or we end up working when we already have the problem on top and it is impossible to take it off and save the jobs that are at risk in Euskadi – and I agree with Mrs López de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lopez de Ocarariz must not speak. Basque Socialists? Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u85	Yes, thank you. I will start at the end of my speech, because, Mr Becerra, it seems that it sometimes bothers the Socialists to say that we regard the automotive sector as a stage of transformation, and that we must bear in mind that energy is a fundamental vector affecting the Basque industry and, in particular, the automotive sector. And it seems to you that it bothers you that the Socialists recognize that. I already know that it makes you nervous that when we talk about energy strategy and these issues, now with the government of Pedro Sánchez, you get nervous. But look, it's not my fault. Valerians, and everything happens. And you know why everything happens? Because there comes a time when, if we really believed that the agreements that we have reached in this Parliament, when we make amendments that have been unanimously adopted, by very broad agreements, if we kept them for more than 90 days, listen, I would be satisfied. But that's not happening. It's just that what happens, Mrs Larion, when you talk about the closure of the groups not to participate, at least at least do not think of my group that we are not going to participate in the presentation. I have not said that either as a matter of fact, because we are such a sufficiently responsible group that we participate in everything, even in votes in which we do not like the subjects; not like others, who devote themselves to the non-vote at certain times when they do not care that an agreement is reached and prefer not to count, and I am talking about Euskal Herria Bildu, who is becoming an expert in that of not voting and not participating. Therefore, the Socialist Group has never, ever; it has always participated in everything, and in what is democratically constituted in this Parliament more, more. You understand me, don't you, Mrs. Larrion? That we will participate; with much desire, too. Look, because we do not prefer, as Mr Becerra said before, we do not prefer what we have and do not move anything. Are we being told this milonga? What do you mean, nothing moves and that's what the government wants? The government of Pedro Sánchez, if it had not wanted to move anything, listen, look, eight months lying in the bartola, and it has not been so, nor astonishment, bad that it is against some; it has not been so, and less so with the energy transition, and less so with what affects the energy transition, the automotive sector. So, lessons, little ones. You said, "It's never enough work." Indeed, we have never considered the work enough, but that steps have been taken, at least, we must recognise it, because of the political issue that we are in serious and rigorous work; at least, we must recognize that the steps that have been taken are, first of all, to comply with the agreements that we are carrying out in this House, and, if those agreements are democratic, therefore, to get started, and you close the doors, because now what you are proposing is a paper. We do not know what the committee of experts is going to do; the committee of experts for the Basque Energy Pact, we do not know what will happen to it. Great goals you set for a humble one-year paper. Look, if that's the case, I'd sign you all the papers you want to solve the problems of the strategic sectors within a year. The truth is that we have had to waste a lot of time in this House when things can be sorted out with a paper in a year, and I am also referring to the topic of the paper by the Left Margen, which also brought about yours, also brought about yours at the time, and it was, of course, quite longer than a year. I say to you, Mrs Larrion, the parliamentary system, it is true, you said: "it is the need that we do not work against Parliament". We will never work against Parliament, ever. We have never, never, but what I am asking for at least is that there should be respect for the decisions that are democratically taken in this Parliament. I ask no more and I ask no less: respect for parliamentary democracy, for the agreements we adopted both in October 2018 and last 14 March. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u87	Thank you. Good afternoon again, good afternoon now. Let's see, I have heard very attentively, Mrs Larion, your lesson about what is going to happen to the automotive sector, with cars, bridges, 5Gs, roads. It's probably very well documented; I imagine you haven't gotten it out of the Wikipedia of automotive. Now, the question is, is that what's going to happen, or is that what you've read that someone says it's going to happen? We just don't know what's going to happen, we don't know where he's going, and a paper... What I'm going to say, for starters, if the paper comes out, the first one that's going to be enthusiastic is going to be me, and I'm going to ask for an important list of people to come and tell us things. Now, is a paper going to solve the doubts that everyone has right now about where the sector is going? Because what I'm asking is that, that's basically what I'm asking. We don't know what's going to happen, and the experts are going to move things. Because, yes, I am going to tell you: the representatives of the Mercedes workers at the General Councils of Álava asked not for a presentation, but for a negotiating table with entrepreneurs and administration. That's what they're looking for, and that's an area where, surely, things can be fixed. Now, that is one element, and then the other, apart from the fact that what we decide in Euskadi is not resolved, because I also repeat to you: the area of decision in the automotive sector even exceeds the European level. But let us at least work at European level. And what are we going to do here? We're going to give him a lot of illusion, we're going to give him a lot of enthusiasm. But I, even though I am going to work with illusion, have many doubts that we solve in a paper nothing that the automotive sector really needs. And then comes the energy pact. This fully enters into the energy pact. And whether you like it or not, we're going to rethink the energy pact, then, if this comes out approved. Why? Because, at least, we should work to get the automotive sector out of the energy pact. We cannot be working on it in different parliamentary or extra-parliamentary areas, can we? I mean. I mean. Because, and this time, I'm going to talk a little bit about parliamentary ethics, which I mentioned earlier. I am not going to trust the word given and the conversations held any more. And Mrs. López de Ocariz, our romance has a bache, it has a bache. I'm not gonna let you do one of these again. Where I was still asking you yesterday afternoon and you were confirming me, this is not right. And I'm disgusted, not only because romance has a bump, but because, besides, I'm going to lose the vote, and because, besides, we're going to do something that you and I agreed and that it wasn't necessary to do. But this makes me think that the bridges that from the left are trying to fly, as I said now, you have decided to give them the matches. That's what they're doing: give them the matches to collaborate. Look, we're going to keep resisting, we're going to keep resisting, we're going to go to the paper, we're going to be in the paper, we're going to contribute to the paper, and, of course, what I'm not going to admit is that I say we're against Parliament. Look, I've heard about giving wheat before and I don't know what. Do you remember at Gipuzkoa General Councils? What did Gipuzkoa General Councils decide? Not the incinerator. What did the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council do? The other way around. [[Words]] But what did the Chamber do? Go against Parliament, go against Parliament. And now I'm gonna tell you something else. The other day we approved setting up an expert group to work on the energy pact; in Parliament we decided to do so. What is that expert group? It is not a parliamentary presentation. Is that working against Parliament? We should say in Parliament what the expert group is going to decide. It's us. Having a paper, no. That's the same thing. That's the same thing. And I'll warn you again: keep sinking bridges, and we'll see you late that early, us holding them and you pushing how you're going down. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. When we're done arguing, we'll vote for EH, and we'll go together to the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u89	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, in the Esscal education system, was to guarantee laic education. The discussion and the final discussion. Team proposeer's turn. Marstinion, the representative of the Podemos, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u90	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. I make it clear, first of all, that this initiative is registered before Mr Ortuzar called us "trident opponent"; I say, in case anyone has any doubts. The object of the initiative which we have brought to discuss today is clear: To guarantee the right to the thoughts, religion, and conscience of the students. This, we think, is the fulfillment of the law, which the Union receives in the Altar of Child Rights. "The child – and the girl child – must be protected against practices that may promote racial, religious or other discrimination. And States parties shall respect the right of the child to freedom of thought, conscience and religion." But what's going on here? With the mantra of the right to choose, that doesn't work. The State should first ensure confessionality and, above all, effective separation between institutions and religious confessions. And among these institutions, we have the public school, in which we should ensure that effective separation for two reasons: neutraltasun ideologicala bermatzeko, éta esprru publikoan berdintasuna bermatzeko konfesioren bat daukaten personsonen artean eta konfesiorik gabeko personsonen artean. But the reality we have is that neither ideological neutrality nor equality is guaranteed, at all, right now, in this educational system. And I'd say more: the freedom of conscience is not guaranteed in our education system. And why isn't it guaranteed? Because indoctrination is allowed in public space, and I will clarify the term 'doctrination': indoctrination should not be understood as a pejorative term, but rather an indoctrination in terms of knowledge and teaching of the doctrine, in this case, of religious doctrine, which is what is happening, in this case, in Euskadi. Doctrine, in case there is still any doubt, is a set of basic ideas, teachings or principles defended by a religious, ideological movement, etc. That's what I'm referring to with indoctrination. And the teaching of history, the teaching of the social, cultural factors that gave rise to a religious fact, cannot be confused at this time – which can and should be taught – with religious indoctrination, which is, as I said, the teaching of doctrine. We must very well distinguish ethical worth and religious worth, and these are the two things which seek to confound the religion of the people in order to teach them. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that States shall respect the child's freedom of thought, conscience and religion, is based on the fact that, on the one hand, boys and girls have not developed their autonomy at the time when they impart these religious teachings to them; and, on the other hand, they are separated and separated by their beliefs in order to receive religious indoctrination, and this happens every day in the Euskadi classrooms in public and concerted education. And I say again: indoctrination not understood in a pejorative way, but as what it is, which is the teaching of a doctrine. And, therefore, despite the fact that this Convention establishes these principles, and the 1959 Declaration, to which I referred earlier, on the Rights of the Child and the Child, says that the best interests of the child must prevail – and of the girl, we should add at this time –, moreover, this Parliament also approved in a monographic plenary that this best interests should be included in all public policies, the best interests that must be above agreements, educational agreements with the Holy See and also above educational concerts with religious centres. The rights of the child are superior, and they have to be, as I say, above all those considerations, and that is not happening. That is why the initiative we were bringing here today was very simple, and it is still very simple, very concrete and very clear in the transaction that we agreed with Euskal Herria Bildu. We only ask that the parliaments should be remunerated by the Decorations, and by the rest of the Institutions, as a public institution, to have a social character, which must necessarily be a place without religious symbols, and have an unsympathetic educationcurulum, and make a plan for doing it. And we've put in a three-month period. You know, all the teams, what proposals we have for education: the public education, the inclusive, the party, who cultivates the reformer and the community, but also the latic, which respects the freedom of thought, and raises it without dogma. And besides, we claim our right to proclaim it, even today. We believe that achieving a truly democratic school, and therefore fully secular, remains an outstanding subject in the Basque educational system. I know they will tell us that in other countries it also happens, in other supposedly secular countries, but, well, for me the example is France, and it's not that far away either. The school must educate without dogmas on scientific and universal knowledge, on humanistic values, on respect for human rights, on the assumption of difference and diversity on the basis of equality in dignity and equality in rights, on ethical principles and on democratic principles that are common to all people. And, therefore, we consider that religion, in its confessional forms, and its acts and symbols must leave the curriculum and leave school. Unfortunately, educational policies both in the State – with LOMCE, fundamentally – and in Euskadi – also with Heziberri – have not gone contrary to what I have explained now, which makes it clear that having virtually full competences in education at present in Euskadi does not spare us from the design of educational policies based on respect for and the full development of freedom of conscience, one of the fundamental pillars of human rights. Schools cannot at any time be a place of exclusion and discrimination, and that happens in Euskadi day by day. Children should not be separated according to the beliefs or convictions of their families, let alone by their sex and gender, as well as every day in Euskadi. As a result, religion, in its confessional forms – I say again – must leave the curriculum, the curriculum and the school environment. And this democratic demand for the secularity of the educational institution extends to the whole of the Basque educational system, regardless of its ownership, because the right to freedom of conscience and its development is universal, and no one, no child in our country can be deprived of that right. Moreover, in the compromise proposal that we have signed with EH Bildu, we say it very clearly: we say very clearly that we express our deep respect for the religious feeling of citizenship, as well as for the agnostic feelings or beliefs – better said – agnostic, and also for the beliefs of the people who consider themselves atheistic. We urge, as I said, to ensure the secular character of the school and we urge the Government to carry out a three-month plan to see how we can do that within the framework of our competences. And, in addition, to make it clear, we urge the Government to also ensure in the curriculum knowledge of the different religions of the world, as well as of agnosticism and atheism, always from diversity, inclusion and with a non-dogmatic, critical and scientific point of view. And, moreover, this subject of confessionality and the teaching of religion as a doctrine is generating numerous management problems in education in our country; for example, the strike of the concerted; and for example, the problem we have with religion teachers; and for example, we have the different access treatment that Catholic religion teachers have against the other teachers of other branches. I think, for example, several buttons. Public administrations must guarantee the universal right to education – I say it again – in terms of equality, which implies respect for the equally universal right to freedom of conscience and to education in schools. To conclude, together in Podemos, we defend public schools. We define that what is free, because it can only be democratic and laticic, an integrated educational system, the only one that forms the balance of the desors and the training of each other for life. All this, moreover, in a project of society, in a common project for citizenship, inclusive and non-segregating, and, moreover, I believe that, as Benedict XVI said, the State should be secular, precisely for the sake of religion in its authenticity, which can only be lived freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u91	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. De Bengochea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u92	Well, Mr. Martinez, actually, to be a very simple proposition, I have rarely seen such a long justification in the notebook. That is, yes, the proposal is five lines, but you need to justify it with paragraphs and paragraphs and paragraphs and paragraphs. Well, all right, I'm not going to get involved, but I want to tell you that, of simplicity, nothing. Then there's another short thing I'd like to tell you. Let's see. You, at the level of the whole State, at the national level, have had the opportunity to change all the articles in the legislation on this matter that bind us. It is very easy to bring him here to this Parliament, but why have you not done so in the General Courts? They could have changed it; they had enough support. Oh, but no! It's just that we don't dare; we prefer to bring him here. Well, I'm going to start by reviewing where we are, because sometimes I get the impression that you live in a bubble and describe us as if we were what you legitimately want us to be. But that's not true, that's not true. You now state things that you would have to spell out in potential, and by setting out in potential you would be legitimized, but by setting out in the present, you would not. Well, let's see, I'm going to put on the glasses to watch closely. Let's see, let's start with the Declaration of Human Rights, article 26. Article 26 states that "the end of education is the full development of the human personality". That is article 26. And in point two it establishes the right of parents to choose the type of education. We are talking about the Declaration of Human Rights. Let's go a little more concrete; let's go to our own Constitution, in Article 16.3: "No confession will have a state character. The public authorities will take into account the religious beliefs of Spanish society and maintain the consequent relations of cooperation with the Catholic Church and other confessions." In its interpretation, the Constitutional Court has defined the country, following this article, as a confessional state. And immediately after saying this, the Constitution says, in 27.3 – the one I have read before was 16 – but in 27.3 it says: "The public authorities guarantee the right of parents to receive their children's religious and moral formation according to their own convictions." Because you speak of freedom – how did you say? –, the freedom of conscience of a creature. I don't know, but my three-year-old granddaughter is that I see it difficult; I think it will have to be her parents, who, by the way, have chosen not to choose the subject freely, but have chosen them, because with three years freedom of conscience little will be possible to exercise. And that's what I'm talking about. Imagine, the top now set by psychologists is from the age of 21 and 22, which matures the prefrontal cortex. This is a scientific fact – you have said that with scientific data, etc., etc. Well, when do scientists say he's fully mature to exercise all those rights? From the ripening of the prefrontal cortex; I tell you no more. Well, there's one thing you said that I loved, that I'm going to tell you, and it's true, I'm going to tell you all the countries that have another situation that you would like. He says, "But I've had enough of France, which is nearby." Well, you know that in France, in 2002, the government of Lionel Jospin, who was socialist, as you know, very concerned about deficiencies they were seeing in education, asked for a report on whether the religious fact should be introduced into education. That report was produced and, in 2006, the National Assembly approved the introduction of the study of the religious fact from 2012. It's true that François Hollande suspended that application, but he didn't break it, did he? And as a result, there are departments in France that have introduced the religious fact into their curricula; in a very small part, because they are very centralists, they have freedom, and they have introduced it. So, Mr. Martinez, what a shame. Even France has failed him. Even France. And, well, now you are going to allow me to take a look at what is happening in other European countries. Let's see, there are countries like Sweden, which no one will call retrograde, like Finland or like Greece, in which the study of religion is compulsory, is compulsory. Some even have it in their constitutions. Its constitutions state that religion should be studied. That to me, actually, it seems to me that it's going too far. But they justify it in the Declaration of Human Rights, which says that the end of education is the full development of the human personality. And they consider that, without the study of the religious fact, the human personality has more developmental difficulties. Let's see, well, I already told you about France. I can tell you Sweden, Croatia... In the United Kingdom it is also compulsory; do not miss it. So, let's see, I think here we have a clash between what your bubble is, in which we pretend that we are all as you would like, and reality. The reality is different, and I will also tell you something that powerfully draws my attention to: I think that you – we all talk about diversity, because it is a positive value – but you make a tremendous impact on it, and some other group in the House. But what we're all about is complete uniformity. You want, or seem to want, for what you say, a society in which no one studies religion, in which we all profess gender ideology, in which we all assume the values that you advocate. And then, when we're all uniform, uniform, uniform, you'll talk about diversity. Look, diversity is not that; diversity is that we can live with people who study and practice religion with people who do not and are not interested and are agnostic or atheistic. People who firmly believe in gender ideology and people who miss, women above all, being able to work at home. They also have a right. People who have some customs and people who have others, who have some origins and who have others. Do you know the problem of these truly diverse societies? They are very complicated to manage, very complicated, but that is the truly democratic thing, not what you say. Democracy equals uniformity. No one studies religion, we are all secular, we all speak in Basque – I had forgotten –, we all study in Basque model D, we all profess gender ideology, and then we will be diverse. Well, I don't know what we're going to be different about; let some be one height, and some be another. Figure it out, until the old gender difference today is erased. I have seen initiatives in its cultural sphere in which it says that in the identity card it does not have to put whether it is man or woman. You imagine what uniformity. Or let us not forget parent A, parent B; we could not be parents. It's just that you guys really are designing a uniformed society. One thing I will admit to you, that such a society is easy to manage. But do you know what those societies are called? Non-democratic; they are called totalitarian societies. Democracy, precisely, is to assume all the diversity: man, woman, belief, Castilian, Basque... And open an umbrella of legislation that protects all these diversity, and that only has as its limit the law and, of course, human rights. That's what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u93	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u94	Good morning, everyone. Well, it is evident that the same words are often used for different things, and that the dialectics are given by them. If plurality is something that is not a uniform, and democracy is something, it is clear that it confounds the public area and the private area over and over again; for if democracy has anything in its foundation the freedom of consciousness, equality. And just if democracy has any respect, respect for all beliefs. And if democracy has anything, it is not only a respect for a belief or a belief, for different beliefs in society have different confessions. And here we see that we constantly disturb the public and the private area. And we believe that laity must be a part of the political project of the Basque Country and Juridic, the laity must be a part of the public, because the public has to be a lanic. And the public education system, and, in general, the education area financed by public funds, must be latic; the public money belongs to all, it is common. This is often the government acts as if it were the money of EAJ, or as if it belonged to the party in the government at that time, and no. Public revenue is of all men who pay taxes, and pay taxes to men who have faith or have no faith throughout: Muslims, Catholics, gospelists... All of you, the public money belongs to everyone. And therefore how the use of public money is made, how it is essential for all the people to treat of equality. For a Muslim can think: Why should Catholic faith be financed with public money in schools? Why shouldn't they fund their religion with public money, for instance? For money belongs to all, and in doing so, not all the people are treated alike. This, then, is a very sensible thing, and it is very reasonable that we should plan it; to treat all the citizens in equality, and to make no distinction between the citizens in public, in private, allah, in private. This is where the public and private field are to be distinguished. And therefore it is logical, that it is reasonable not to finance a specific belief in the schools of the public area, because it is automatically different from the citizens. That's for starters. I mean, you can't do anything with public money, you can't do anything with everyone's money, and, of course, other public systems (polytic, institutions... It's supposed to be laic. And this we say with all due respect to all religions. But, in our humble opinion, belief, religion, ought to be directed to private ground, which must be very well distinguished; Private field, public field. This is what multiplicity, respect, equality, tolerance demands-to respect people, the belief of all citizens, the belief of thought. And that doesn't mean the proposition we're planning doesn't mean that religion and faith don't acknowledge and respect anything we don't. We respect them, we confess them, we value each, but that's one of them. The public field is a different account. And it is another thing to offer a knowledge in schools of all the religions that are in the world, very scientificly, of all the beliefs that all the students may have occasion for, because all the customs in the world are commonly confounded with the habit of religion in order to know them. Two things are so different. And we also think that this may also be helpful and exaggerated for the knowledge and culture of each person, as well as for the communion. For still there is a great confusion in the public. In festivals, in institutions, in schools, in villages... many expressions of the Catholic belief prevail and prevail, often confounding them with other customs. And here we see and often imagine the power of the Catholic Church on the system. We see also that he acts as if he were another power. With the legislative, executive, and judicial power, there is the power of the Catholic Church. And unfortunately, that expression is there. We must remember that Spain, the Spanish State, is an American, but that he has a contract with the Vatican, the hunchback, II. Signed after the world war. It's been a while. It's been a while, and things don't change here. We don't know why. The Catholic Church has given a singular status in public. We don't understand. And thus we can see in the everyday: the representation which public institutions send to their expressions, religious institutions, etc., and which, on the contrary, is given to them in public. And here we see what confusions are made. And all that has had a tremendous influence on culture, in our society, in sociology. He's had a huge influence. And the question is: How long are we to promote these public institutions, to maintain this belief in the public country with the public funds? How long? And why? Why? Why is it given to the Catholic Church in the country where no one else has been admitted and where no one has been given? Why? And then we're back again with LUMCE and Hezie. If we'd gone on a little longer in evolution, we'd go back. And it seems to me that it is time to make a model of public money, and make use of public money in a sense, because it is of all men, of all beliefs, of the people of all religions, and because we are all worthy of respect for public institutions. And if public institutions are to establish something, the equality of the people is the equality of the community. The other thing is what everyone does in private life or what he does in private areas. And it seems to us that there's time for the Board of Education to reach this subject by Government. And that's the planning we've brought here today. We think we're late. Society precedes, and it still seems that this government and this Board of Education are in the past. Where is society and where institutions are? And besides, a Spain in evolution pulling back and pulling back another government in action. And meanwhile society is stuck in it, I don't know, in a past century. Eta iruditzen zait, askotan, common sense
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u96	Well, good morning. I will begin by giving Mr Martínez the reason when he said that this proposal presented it in the Elkarrekin House We can before those statements by Ortuzar, but long before. We are talking about a proposal that has been sleeping for 12 months the dream of the righteous in the register of this Parliament and that you have considered neither of urgent necessity, nor peremptory, nor important, nor transcendental for the life of the Basques until just 30 days before an electoral call. Finally, it gives the impression that he has a certain electoral tuphile. Then, some precision that I did want to do, because here things are mixed up. You say that indoctrination in public space is provoked or produced or permitted. Yes, but it happens that here we have an educational system in this country, which we all have when the Basque Public School Act was passed, which establishes a dual system between the public and the concerted, distributed to 50%, which is exceptional in the European as a whole, but which is ours, is what we approve in its day. And that establishes anomalies; among others, that much of the concerted centers are of Catholic confession, teach the teaching of religion. What's our first obligation? To defend that such indoctrination does not exist in the sphere of public school, which is what directly corresponds; that is our criterion. Others may have another more extensive approach. What really worries me is public school and how teaching and education is done in that space. It seems to me that it is the trunk, and, of course, frankly, because the subject of teaching religion is very important, it does not seem to me to be the most serious thing that is happening to us or the most worrying thing within the Basque educational system. But I am going to start by pointing out a little bit the position of the Socialists on this issue, and I do not think there is any doubt that, for us, for the Socialists, education has been and is one of the fundamental pillars of our society, one of the backbones that define their society and a priority that is innate in the DNA of the Socialist Party. And we also believe that it is one of the essential elements for promoting equal opportunities and for building democratic coexistence based on the values of equality, solidarity, accountability and inclusiveness. We therefore recognize and wish to place special emphasis on the role of the Basque public school and its secular character. We promote a model of comprehensive education appropriate to the new citizenship of the twenty-first century, in which students are endowed with a critical and transformative vision of reality, and, for this, students must be provided with tools, useful tools to help them discern for themselves and generate their own critical opinion. And we bet – we will not tire of repeating it – on a secular public school, where there is no need for the integration of confessional teachings, and which defends public ethics and democratic values. And we have always defended the subject of Education for Citizenship, now called Ethical and Civic Values. We have already launched it with the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and it has always been defended here and now in Congress by the Minister of Education, Isabel Celaá, and by all Socialists. The fact that education is secular does not necessarily imply that it is contrary to certain religious values – I believe we all agree on that – or that it defends an agnostic stance. The secular education seeks something else: it seeks human reflection based on the freedom of belonging, thought or belief, and, therefore, the educational system has to ensure the interests of students, and must be governed by the ideological neutrality of any public administration, and schools cannot be grounds for exclusion, discrimination or segregation, but rather for inclusion, diversity and integration. Because we have to realize that this world is moving forward, and with it, society and social realities, which are changing. And the education system has to respond to all these realities. Therefore, students must be taught to know how to decide for themselves, to learn to be made and realized. It is necessary to educate them in values and show them the reality as it is. And we want this subject to be compulsory and universal. Civic values must be universal, and therefore all pupils must attend them. Religions should not have academic value if they persisted in the school curriculum. Therefore, there can be no alternative subject. The subject of Ethical Values, being these values, as I have said, universal, must be taught by all students, and its aim is to promote the development of people so that they are free and that they are citizens with their own criteria, in order to promote a plural, inclusive, just, tolerant and democratic society. And there I will allow myself to make a clarification to Mrs De Bengoechea: we are not discussing the religious fact here. The problem is that it tends to confuse information or discussion or debate about the religious fact with the acceptance of the Catholic religion, because what is taught in the concerted schools – mostly of Catholic confession – is not the religious fact; it is taught the Catholic religion, which is something else very different, because there are other different religious facts: Protestants, Methodists, Muslims, Jews... That is, there are many religious facts, but that is not taught in religious centers; Catholic religion is taught. Therefore, let us not pretend to confuse the teaching of the Catholic religion with the much broader religious fact. But, in any case, it is our duty to work to ensure education in terms of equality, and to move forward in a context of transformation with the current globalization, the complexity of this society and social fragmentation. And therefore, we want to make an unequivocal bet on inclusive education, social cohesion and the management of that diversity. That is why we have tabled an amendment, together with the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group, which comes to say: "The Basque Parliament recognises the essential role of the Basque public school and its secular character, and urges the Basque Government and the Department of Education to continue to ensure the interests, specific needs and autonomy of the education system, and to ensure a public system of quality education on an equal and equitable basis". I will be told by those who support Podemos' amendment: "no, but it is that the other part of the educational system, which are the concerted centers, do, in some cases – not all are religious – teach the Catholic religion." That's true, but that's the system we've got and approved. And I am willing to accept the discussion that we can change that model, and do it more in the style of other countries where there is not even private school, or it is residual, as it can be in France. But today we have the legal framework we have, and if we want another, let's fight to get it out, but then say it here too. We have the capacity to put it in what is right for us as a public administration in public school, and to be respectful, which is the most we can do, which is right for us, with those other centers – it is true – that, supported by public funds, have another way of seeing life, and to which parents, by the way, go or decide to go freely.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good noon to all. Well, from the line Mr. Pastor has said, laity must be traced; laity, euscal educational system, must respect a frame. As an end, that avoids a declaration of confession on the part of the State, that is to say, taking it for real, and accepting it as his own, we are speaking of a subject which the state does not make a declaration of the confession of a faith, in the 163th article of the Constitution, which puts a laity or non-communciative system. The nature of this reason consists in the necessity of protecting the religious freedom of the people and their equality. But the protection of the fundamental right of all religious and national freedom to the equality of all the people is likewise to be combined with other rights established in the Constitution in the school. Hala, Konstituzioko 27.3 artikuluan xedatzen gives: "The public authorities must guarantee the right of parents to receive their children's religious and moral formation according to their own convictions". So that the last right is set up as a fundamental right, and is mentioned before 16. it must be referred to the ideological, religious, and cultural rights received in the article. Horren inguruan, Auzitegi Konstituzionalak, 1981.eko otsailaren 13ko epaian, honako hau adierazten zuen: "In a legal-political system based on pluralism, the ideological and religious freedom of individuals and the confessionality of the State, all public institutions and, in particular, educational institutions must be, in fact, neutral". Iraqaskuntza-askatasunarekin lotuta, jarraian datorena esaten digu Auzitegi Konstitutionalko bigarren salak 1985.eko mayatzaren 29an, drink 359. "The right to religious freedom of each person also includes, in general and specifically, in a state declared to be unconfessional, that of rejecting any religious attitude of the state in relation to the person, and therefore, and in connection with the freedom of teaching recognized and regulated by article 27 of the Constitution, the obligation of the public authorities not to coerce the study of a particular ideological or religious confession". Eta aurrerago: "Article 27.3 of the Constitution guarantees the right of parents to receive their children's religious and moral formation according to their own convictions". It is clear that here the constitutional article protects, together with the free choice of a certain moral or religious education, the right to ideological neutrality of public educational institutions, as stated in the above-mentioned judgment of this court of 13 February 1981. In this context, it is to be considered that the article of 8/1985 organic law of education, which confirms the right of parents and guardians to receive the religious and moral education which agrees with their own beliefs in the centres of their children. In like manner the law of speaking acknowledges to students the right of respecting their consciences, and of being respected by their religious and moral belief. Lastly, this law ordains, that in the article 18.1, all the public centres will develop their activity with respect to the principle of ideological neutrality, and to the principle of the ideological neutrality, and to the doctrine of the 27.3th article of the Constitution. On the other hand, the 1/1990 Organic Law of the general organization of the educational system (LOGSE), the 3rd of October, demands in its second supplementary regulation the teaching of the Catholic religion, which is the 3th of January, 1979, will be adjusted to the agreement between the teaching and cultural affairs of Spain and the Vatican. This regulation has been in all the organic laws of education which have since been published. The 1/1993 Law of the Public Basque School, February 19, expresses in its article 3.1. "The public school of Euscal, each school in it, is a class of orators, a democratic one, who is in the service of the euscal society, founded in its circle in society and culture, a member of the community, a co-operative of differences, and a combination of diversities." And he puts it between his designs: "Freedom of the professors' chains," says he, "by which this law ordains, that both parents and guardians should choose a school for their children, and, in the present case, have the right to choose the religion which they desire for their children." The second additional regulation of 236/2015 Decrets of basic education is given to the teaching of religion, and expresses: "Before learning begins, the students of age will show whether they will learn or not, the parents or guardians of the minors. So Catholic religion will be a field in the First Education, and a lesson in the Second Education of Required, which must necessarily be devoted to schools and elective for students. Those who do not choose religion will perform Sociaal and Cybiic values in the First Education, and the Etitic Values in the High Exercised Education, parents, legal guardians, or, so far as they are concerned, the students are elected." In the case of Batxiler, the curriculum of Batxiler, and to be placed in the Euscal Autonomia Escimia Escre, is the second additional regulations of the Decreum 1527/2016. "Religions of religion will be introduced into the Union, according to what has been prescribed in this decree. Schools must offer religion in one of the Batxiler lines, in one of the 15.4.b of this decree, and in the 164 articles together with the print." This is the frame, which is really well defined and well framed, because this subject has been often thorny, and has been set around it a narrow frame. That's the frame and that's the playground. In order to protect the rights, the Constitution has, therefore, confirmed the neutrality which the institutions have asked, because, as has been mentioned, they could not impose a specific religious option on the students who are occupied by education. But this neutrality would be broken, if the centres would not choose either the liberty or the religion of the establishment of religion which they please their pupil, and give up the opportunity to make the matter of the Soviets and the Cybitans. We think, then, that the public euscal school protects the religious freedom of its pupils and the equality of their pupils, by avoiding the neglect of their beliefs. For this reason we introduced a correction with the Socialist Group, where confession was made to the fundamental task of the public euscal school, and to its laity, and also to require that it should continue to guard the interests, specific wants, and autonomys of education. And likewise the remagation of the public education of quality, in the conditions of equality and equity, where laity, with its neutrality, brings freedom of religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. In passing to the answers, Podemos, Monsieur Martínezinón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u100	On the thread of freedom of conscience, Pastor, they said that the dream of the righteous slept with those who had a calm conscience. And I think that, during this year, if I have been able to sleep quietly without presenting this initiative, it is precisely because I have a clear conscience, and my group has decided at this time, as at any other time, to present this initiative, which we have not presented as a matter of urgency, nor is it the first time that we have presented initiatives in this direction, as we have done in the monograph. And, Mrs. De Bengoechea, you tell me to introduce you to Congress. We can, on the proposal of the lay Europe platform, precisely with the votes of the Socialist Party, which, curiously, here does not support similar initiatives. And, as for bubbles, the only ones, in my case, those of Juan Luis Guerra. All the other bubbles are based on the Charter of Human Rights, on the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, and yes, they clash with the Spanish Constitution, which we legitimately aspire, as you have said, to transform it, as well as the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, as well as the Education Act. And feminism, Mrs. De Bengoechea, is that radical idea that defends equality between men and women. I think, well, if there's someone who's against the gender ideology that you say, well, your consciousness or your state with your consciousness, then, everyone looks at it. And uniformity, Mrs De Bengoechea, uniformity, precisely, is not to recognize the secularity of the State. Laity defends the plurality of ideologies and the plurality of religions, and the neutrality of the State. Uniformity, Mrs De Bengoechea, is not to recognize genders or non-binaries, for example, or to accept that there are boys and girls going to separate schools or segregated schools, and that goes also for the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, which seems to have no problem with being secreted by sex in Basque. And uniformity, precisely, is also to have privileged agreements, the concordat and educational and other agreements that are held with the Vatican State. That is, for example, what uniformity is. And look if we are far from France, that you were talking about perhaps having approved it – it would have to go into detail – what you said, and, assuming it is true, on the public diplomacy page of the State of France: "The separation between churches and the State means that the French Republic does not recognize, pay wages or subsidize any cult. The State has no religious confession, churches are freely administered, and all churches are equal in law. Churches should not intervene in the organization or operation of institutions of different kinds in the country." That's what we're far from. That's what we're far from. Y vuelvo a decir, la señora Ubera también lo ha explicado: In this management of multiplicity, multiplicity is just opposite to homogeneity, and as democracy is a multiple school, we must guarantee this diversity, which must guarantee the laity of education. And then I was very grateful for the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist and Socialist parliamentary group. It is said here that the Basque Parliament recognizes the essential role of the Basque public school and its secular character. Laity? Where is the secular character of public school? If we teach religious teaching, as Mr Pastor has said, of Catholic religion, and we have teachers appointed by the Catholic Church. Is that a secular education? I don't think so. And neither is concerted education; much, much less. And here is a debate, there is a debate with the ban on bulls. There are many who say it's a tradition that's going to die quietly because fewer and fewer people are going. It may be that to public education, the same as to bull stands, fewer and fewer people go. In public education there are fewer and fewer people who enroll their children in religious education. This may be the horizon, it may be a slow death from religious teaching. But I believe that we have a golden opportunity in the next parliamentary term in Congress, and also through the debate on the Basque education law, which the government is supposed to bring, to ensure the secularity of the Basque education system. And, Mr. Pastor, you're in the government. If you agree that education has to be secular, I hope that the draft of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party will guarantee that, and that will end with privileged teaching. That we are not talking about ending the teaching of religious fact and the history of religions in that subject, for example, or otherwise. We're not talking about that; we're talking about ending confessional education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u101	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u102	Thank you, President. Well, it seems that here we are in a problem of nominalism, because it turns out that the very same documents that have been quoted, both by Mr Martínez and by me, give rise to different things to say. The Basque Nationalist Party defends the secular character of the public. Mr. Pastor seems to understand by the layman something that is not normally understood. I believe that here we are in a nominalist debate, totally, and, well, you, as a great victory, tell me that you have presented a PNL your group in Congress, which has been approved. But, you know? There is no need for a GNP; you would need a proposal for constitutional reform, which, as this is not reinforced, could have taken it out, and you have not presented it, and you had sufficient majority and you have not done so. I think of a phrase so macho, but so historical, that I like to scandalize, and that's that I'm going to say, "Don't cry as a woman what you didn't know how to defend as a man." It's just that he's a sexist, he's from Boabdil, and here he comes to cry to us, "because I want to, because I want to," what you haven't been able to defend in Madrid, and I tell you, I love to scandalize. If I find a little more macho, I'll say so too. But he's a sexist; I'm the first to confess. Well, let's see, Mrs. Ubera, I did a great job of something that you said and that's that you led the debate, you got it out of the... Well, wait, I'm done with Mr. Martinez. Mr Martínez, have you seen that in what you have read us from France there is no explicit mention of education? And that is for the approval in the 2006 Assembly that I have told you. He said they don't have to get into institutions, that I don't know what, but he doesn't say about education. You read it to us literally. Señora Ubera, mire, believed ha illevado el debatæ al ámbito público, public domain. Public grounds this way, public area over there. We're gonna have a problem on these dates, you know why? Because look if religion and one, in particular, is going to be present in public space, in the near future. We have processions in Balmaseda, Hondarribia, Lagran, Azkoitia, Berango, Durango, Bilbao, Segura, Vitoria... Uh, that's eremu publikoa eremu publikoa But you see that the eremu publikoa ez will say Bakarrik eskolak, kaleak cabin ere. And they're gonna be full, full. Those of Hondarribia, please leave them to me, which are very funny; they go dressed in Romans, and that freaks me out. Then let's see. And Mr. Pastor. Mr. Pastor comes here with a series of desideratums, "because we would, because we would, because I don't know what." But, Mr. Pastor, I'm telling you the same thing I said to Mr. Martinez. If they have had enough majorities, and both the LOGSE and the LOMCE, as well as the LOE, and the decrees, have not changed, they have not changed anything. They've left it as it is. Remember Boabdil the Boy. Then, then, there is another thing, which is spoken here of indoctrination, of indoctrination. Well, I don't know which schools you've gone to, but where I've gone you study the religious fact, fundamentally. And if that's not the case, the Education Board can go in and monitor the resume, it can go in perfectly. And finally, I had something to tell you too. But anyway. I think that's enough. Religious fact is a fact protected by all international rights; the right of parents to choose the education of their children, too. And if you don't want to, then make some revolution, but fat, fat, fat, in the United Nations, in the Congress of Deputies. And besides, I'm going to tell you one thing. There could be many issues on which we could agree. We could. But, finally, I'm just going to tell you one thing. Look, live, live, because we're going to support you so you can live. But please, let it live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u103	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u104	Bengoechea. Mrs. Bengoechea. Live and enjoy life. I'd like to insist on the use of public money. Finally, this is just a reasonable matter. Look, we who pay taxes are men of every kind: Other thoughts, one religion, one religion, those who are Catholics, those who are not Catholics, those who are Muslims, those who are not Muslims. So, what would happen if those people who pay taxes were asked to give their religion at school? We'd fill every hour with religion. For if the frame must be based on the identity of consciousness, the equality of all the people, in multiplicity, in tolerance, in respect, that is, on all these principles of democracy, there must be an equality. If the frame is neutral, if the frame is to be respected by equality, and the equality of persons is to be respected, we ought to do so. Everything or nothing. Eta, by the way Mr. Pastor, far away, does the public school have a rough character? Does it have a laic character? Or is this laity nature not met with? Two very different things. Perhaps in theory, it may have a latical character, but it doesn't practice. And you know that very well. And worse: All teachers and workers must enter the public system in the same way, in theory, but not. The professors of religion enter through the back door, and yet with privileges and differences among workers. So watch what you say. One thing is the frame we've got, another thing is the frame that's filled, and it's another... We are here to change frames, or aren't we? Isn't it our job to examine the frames, to suggest different frames? Well, it's what we're asking for, in the first place, to fill up the solid frame. And if he doesn't do it, make him do it. And since it is not to be fulfilled, it must be changed, for the equality of all the people, and above all to make a reasonable use of the public money, because it is the money of all. This, as I have said before, is not the public money of a party in the Government; for it sometimes happens that it is the money of the party in the Government, and is handled in its own judgment. But no, no. It is of great importance, therefore, to maintain the equality of all the citizens. It's important. But we are still involved in this concept, which we have hitherto seen among the public and private areas, as it has been discussed today, there is a confusion of what it is. I said before: In the public area, that is to say, in the acts of the institutions in politics, in those parts where the public money is financed, there is nothing to do with religion. Another question is, that in those processions which a foundation, a society, or a Church itself, disposes of, Mrs. Bengochea, is, in what you have mentioned, whether every one is free or not. But is this where public employments must go? Aren't they going? What presence do the organizations have? Are they supposed to fund with public money? That's another discussion. If this is financed, why not finance the other acts which other religions organize? Many things have been confounded in our society with manners and traditions, but it seems to me that society has changed a great deal, and that there are several disputes, especially what we do with public money, what we do with the money of all. And it seems to us that it's a bit of a matter that we can adapt ourselves to, but today we were talking about public education, and we were talking about education financed by public money. And what we need to finance about public money, what we don't have to fund is an important discussion, because we have to perform some ends. And the first goal is to guarantee the equality of all citizens. Then the question is: We're guaranteeing the equality of all the citizens with public money, aren't we?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u106	All right, let's see if we need some stuff. The subject of teachers of religion has emerged, which is a kind of atavistic remnant that remains there from the beginning, when for a time the teaching of the Catholic religion – not of any religion – was established as compulsory. And to those teachers – I'm sorry to tell you – even if it doesn't commune with their religious teaching, of course, we're going to defend them – and so we did in the Commission – their job. And if they do not have to teach religion, which is what they should do, then they will have to give other kinds of subjects. But I think it is a collective of workers that is perfectly respectable. And then there's the discussion about what each one considers to be public. And we are defending the Basque public school as soon as we understand that it is the public school that has to maintain that secular character. You say: for some times that was not given; it was taught, it was taught religion. Of course, because it changed state regulations, as you know perfectly well, and religion was established as one more subject within the educational curriculum, something which, by the way, Mrs Bengoechea, has already withdrawn, by a socialist government, which has done something at this time, and we will continue to do more. And we will continue to do more, even if you and Mr. Rivera don't like this story. And we will walk in that direction, because we think that the future of education is part of that, of a school that is ideologically neutral. What about the religious fact? Of course. How are we not going to talk about the religious fact in Europe, which is part of our history? But the religious fact in Europe is not only the Catholic religion; so are the other religious confessions, from Europe and from outside Europe. And that is very different from the argument raised by some defenders to the extreme of religion, not of the religious fact, but of the defense of the Catholic religion, and so we are establishing an unbearable division between those who defend the Catholic religion and leap a criterion of ideological neutrality that must always be maintained by the State. And that must also be taken care of, in this case in the public school, and also in the school defended by public funds. Then – I told you – here we have a special model, which was given in Euskadi due to certain circumstances, among other things, because here we had a network of ikastolas that had to be given a certain legal fit. And then a 50-50 dual network between public and private was created, which is a real anomaly in the rest of Spain and in the rest of Europe. It is, it is. I would like another different model, and I suppose some of the other speakers, too. Well, if the Government's public school bill raises this debate, then we are perfectly prepared to enter that debate, with regard to what role it has to play in the teaching of the concerted schools, the ikastolas and the public school, in what percentage, with what resources and with what system. Let's really get into that; let's not distract with fireworks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. To conclude, Euca patriots, Lord Faraway, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u108	Yes, thank you, Madame Committee. I'll be short. There are some things you say. Well, we're ready for discussion, and I think we don't run away from discussions. We're ready to argue, but it has to be deep and it has to be ridiculous. And we've never been afraid to change what has to be changed, and now we won't. But there are some things that show themselves here. Looks like we don't have the freedom to think in this town, Mr Martínnez. It is not here to protect and encourage the freedom of thought, or to assert that we are all doctrines in the definition you have given us, i.e. love, or human rights are not respected. Then there are some things really unacceptable. I know you don't think that way. You can think of... Well, about laity, about freedom, you can have different points of view, but I know you don't think that way. Therefore I would be grateful to discuss all that is to be discussed, but let us discuss it with a little argument, and I would ask that with the will to come to agreements, knowing that we can alter or alter certain things about certain things; some not. We can't change the agreement between Spain and Vatican. In this circle I will tell you, I think I hear all the interferences, even those which are made in the direction of Madrid, and yet, for instance, I have not heard Mr. Illesias so much as this. Then I'll tell you something else: here you mention a great deal of public and private ground, and you mention that public institutions must be, with religion or religious confessions, and so on, a separation. Well, I see the way this enterprise has been... This equipment began in 2017, you put it in June for the first time. Eta etorri zen zuen artean zeneukatenean horrelako eztabaida bat, because, among the municipalities of change, there was a Mr.Kichi, who had given the city's gold medal to the Virgin of the Rosary. Yes, sir. And, just following that, this initiative comes in, which ends up withdrawing on 23 March, the day that, incidentally, a group called Laica Europe filed a lawsuit against that decision. This has been sleeping for a year the dream of the righteous, and now, as it seems, it is up to you to talk about this, go and find out why you're calculating. But I will simply end one thing: I believe that the concept of freedom and, in this case, religious freedom of conscience of worship must be above all things. And I believe, I simply believe that freedom has never been guaranteed nor will it be guaranteed by uniformity, nor by uniformity imposed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that we've finished arguing, we'll go to the vote, and we'll vote together for the middle-direction signed by the Podemos and the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u110	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u111	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And next we vote for a full correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u112	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-28.u113	So, since it's a draw, we'll leave it for the next All Exchange. Since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end up with the Full Union. It was two and fifty-five in the afternoon.
