ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. As you will know, the fifth point is left for another. Then we begin with the first point on the subject list: "The legal proposition made together by the Parliamental Podemos, concerning the protection and well-being of animals. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, and we're just going to argue about it. On the other hand, apart from Mr. Becerra, someone else wants to talk? Side shift? Well, then, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. The majority of the Basque society rejects the suffering, the abandonment, and the ill treatment of animals. And to resist this condition, the instruments and answers which the law offers must be equal. Euskadin, we have a law to protect animals, but it's from '93, and after 26 years we have to update it, it's time to update it. It's time to update the sensibility of today's society and the new legal reality of today. It is high time, as I said, that, 26 years later, the current Law on the Protection of Animals of Euskadi, dating from 1993, is adapted to the new social reality and the new legal reality of the 21st century Euskadi. A social reality that rejects mistreatment or even inadequate treatment of animals, that rejects abandonment and that rejects the sacrifice of those animals that have been abandoned. A new legal reality, in which new formulas are imposed, new forms of care for abandoned animals, such as foster homes or animal shelters, which today are in a situation of appellation, and new habits and customs of Basque society, which increasingly coexists with domestic animals, coexists more with their own pets. It must be said that the law of the year 93 was not a bad law, it was even a law advanced in time. That is why the amendment we are submitting today, which we are presenting as a new law, but basically maintains the structure, the same structure, the same expository simplicity, which had the law of the year 93, and also maintains – and this is important to stress – the same competitive division between municipalities, parliaments and the Basque Government. However, we believe that the law, the amendment of the law, which we are presenting today, is a substantial step forward. It is an advance because its scope extends to all domestic animals that coexist with the human being; to pets, of course, but also to other domestic animals that do not have that condition: wild animals that are in our urban environment, and even exotic animals, which today are also used as pets. However, not all animals are covered by this law. Why? Because there are sectoral regulations that affect them, there are sectoral regulations that, in some cases, also deal with their living conditions and well-being. Therefore, in this law we have excluded both hunting and fishing, as well as wildlife found in the natural environment and bull shows. Also excluded are those animals called production or income, i.e. those related to livestock or farms, today. However, we believe that this greater clarity as to the scope does not diminish the effectiveness of the law, because, today, the fundamental issues, such as abuse, neglect above all, sacrifice, but also breeding and trade, or even issues such as coexistence, remain in our law much more refined than they were in the law of 93, and, as I say, much more adapted to the new times. I have at first remarked that our society disapproves of bad treatments, neglects, or malcontents, and, to prevent all this, new measures must be taken; On the one hand, the stricter measures are established in our law for the headlines, new measures, and more strict measures for care, education and sale. And we harden the conditions of all these things. And, on the other hand, it is more important to administration than to abandoned animals. but the fines also are hardened. And in our proposition, and this is a innovation, a innovation of our law, fines will be according to the suffering of animals. I will finish, because I will not exhaust the turn of defense of the law; I will not extend into its contents, because the contents are open. This law, from the beginning, our group proposed it as an open process, a process agreed with all parliamentary groups. From the very first moment, we made it known to all political groups. And I have to thank the groups that support the Government, because, to the extent that this law did not fall within the legislative timetable of the Government, both Mr Telleria and Mr Prieto assumed or admitted that our group could work on it. But, in particular, I would like to thank the EH Bildu group for its willingness, because it has not only facilitated this work by being in the opposition, but has also sent us, before the presentation itself, amendments and contributions that they understood to be important. The content is the fruit of more than two years of work – I have to say here – of several people, some related to animal protection associations, others not, who have done selfless and altruistic work, in which they have only moved their affection and respect for animals. And that, in itself, is already a supreme value in our 21st century society. But our group, in the process, has also maintained the pact, the pact of word, and the commitment that this law be adopted with the greatest possible consensus. That is why it took more than a year and a half to register it and another half year to bring it here, for the consideration of the House. Our idea is to get out of the political focus, out of the debate, those issues that could result, at a given time more controversial, because we understand that if the social consensus around this matter is large, it must not be less the political consensus that generates. We therefore thank the Basque Government for the positive approach it has given us. A favourable approach conditional on us giving a hearing to all the administrations affected by this law: outlaws, Eudel and the Basque Government itself. I have to tell you here that we have addressed all these administrations, and with all of them, today, we have already met. There have been several meetings, and we already have some of the contributions they have. Even so, and not being obliged, as we are not because we are not a group of the opposition and because this is a proposal for a law, we also opened, after the registration, a process of improvements, in which various social groups that felt affected, in some cases positively, in others negatively. And we have identified more than forty points of improvement on the text that you are going to be able to vote on today. I conclude by saying that our group, with this proposal, not only seeks to adapt our law to a modern and sensitive Basque society, such as that of this 21st century; we not only seek to make the best possible law, with the cooperation of all; we not only seek social and political consensus; with this law, we seek to place Euskadi as one of the most advanced European regions in the field of animal protection and welfare. And to that end, we certainly need the support of this House in order to continue the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. On the contrary, no one? So, we're going to the vote. Now that we have finished our discussion, we will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u3	So it was unanimously accepted to consider it. Next, we'll go to the vote. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Since the People's Group, we have voted in favour of taking this bill into consideration, because it largely coincides with the proposal put forward by the People's Group more than a year ago. A year in which, allow me, we have wasted time, because we could have used it to make a text and today could have been approved. We said then, and we say now, from the Group of the European People's Party, that we consider it necessary to provide, in the Basque Autonomous Community, an up-to-date, effective and guaranteed legal instrument in the defence and protection of pet animals. I insist on pet animals because that is what you have all approved in Navarre; exactly, in April 2019. I'm just saying for remembering the whole "integral" thing. And he said that both texts, although they differ somewhat in the internal structure of the law, regulate in a very similar way those aspects not contained or insufficiently covered by the previous legislation, such as, for example, the obligations of owners, owners or guardians of animals and the identification of animals; the conditions for the transport of animals, the trade in animals; the protection of stray animals and their collection centres; the requirements, the time limits and the prohibition of slaughter, regardless of the time elapsed; and the requirements and conditions to be met by the animal care centres and accommodation establishments, both general and specific in breeding, selling and training establishments; animal protection and defence entities and collaborating entities. Indeed, this proposal contains a novelty: the creation of a Basque council of coexistence and protection of animals. It is curious that something new has not been emphasized in the presentation; but, in any case, I want to say that it is also curious that those who came or said they came to politics to be the Pronto a posteriori In the chapter of the sanctioning regime, we agree on almost everything with regard to inspection, infringement and sanctions. Indeed, in the amount of sanctions on an economic basis, the proposal we are dealing with today significantly tightens the amounts, and has aspects of improvement. He drew attention to the fact that there was no specific article defining the scope of law enforcement, a sensitive and difficult issue, but it was essential to include it. Only in Title 3 are we talking about exclusions, and here are the interpretations, right? What is not excluded is included? But, if we go to exclusions, neither are they defined, because they speak not of animals, but of activities; activities that already have their regulations (hunting, fishing, taurine shows regulated). No reference is made to animals, and the Government makes no reference to this in its reply. Is that more integral? We don't know; we don't understand, do we? We understand that the editors have been shaking their wrists. It has shaken their wrists in this article, and they have left the one that already existed in the previous law, so as not to get us into skunks. That which you have called, Mr. Becerra, leave the law open. As I said to you, I have a wide margin, we have a wide margin, to improve the proposed text, and we will try to contribute, with our contributions, to improving it. I cannot ignore the Government's approach and its motivations. In this legislature, the Government is giving everything in its criteria and motivations to the proposals of law: 45 proposals of law, 45 criteria with their motivations, which give for a thorough study. The proposed initiative talks about municipal and outsourced competences, but does not include any..., nothing. We did include them in our proposal, and yet the government was telling us to get into..., to distort the legal order, right? It's deeply surprising: in one place it says "you've passed," and in another, "they're not." We don't understand. To the proposal before us, he says in his article: "Shows and activities that include the presence of animals, as well as fair attractions like carousel and other animals, are prohibited". I want to say that the Government's approach to our initiative said that it did not address problems in our autonomous community that are of importance: "It does not address to the extent that it addresses certain problems that do not occur in Euskadi, such as the use of rotating or carousel fairs." I would like to say that, in fact, the Government's approach could have been much more concrete, more in line with reality, and not contradicted in two considerations that deal with very similar texts. Therefore, we have to say that our attitude will be to collaborate, to incorporate those proposals that are already incorporated in our initiative... And we assume and believe that they significantly improve the proposed law that we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u6	President, ladies and gentlemen. The idea of this proposal for a law has its start at the beginning of the legislature; Mr Becerra has already pointed out that. Then we were in favour of this initiative, and we were even willing to present it together. Then, well, for evolution has taken us to this time; now sees the light this proposition of law, and of course we are in favor. The protection and welfare of animals is also a responsibility of the public authorities and therefore of this Parliament. And the present proposal for a law makes a qualitative leap over our 1990s law. Since then, many administrations (European, Spanish, local...) have been moving in this direction. And the Socialists want to improve this area of animal protection, in a better and more effective legal protection. But, as we're dealing with animals, I'll talk about them now. Because, as we are taught every day, our perfect companions almost never have less than four legs. Because they're good friends, they don't ask questions, they don't criticize. Because they are capable of a loyalty and gratitude that many humans would like for themselves. Because they are great communicators, since their language is universal. Because the animal, rather than talking to him, has to be heard. For the life lesson that we give to those who eat without hunger, drink without thirst or speak without having anything to say. For the great intelligence they possess, thanks to which they do not need to accumulate assets, buy cars, telephones or ask for credits. Because when they die, they don't need to go to heaven. We want better and more effective legal protection, so that man ceases to be the king of animals thanks to his brutality. Because until we stop hurting animals, we'll still be wild. Because who's cruel to animals, can't be a good person. Because I share the statement: until one has loved an animal, a part of the soul remains unawakened. Also for the passion I have for cats: a philosophical animal, tenacious in its own habits, fond of order and pulcritude, untened towards extravagant sentimentalism, which offers you its friendship and rejects your slavery. And why not, by Grisita, by Martín, by Canela and by Okupa, who are four cats with whom I share time, affection, house and food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u7	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Otero, your word is in the name of the EH Collector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u8	Yes, good morning, everyone. Today, this law, we have voted for it, of course. There are certain materials for making changes in society which the institutions must first take steps. In other respects, however, the steps given by the public are moved by institutions. This last is the case with animal protection and rights. Society has taken enormous strides in the last decade, and we continued with a law that went out many years ago. "Cada vez son más las personas que comparten su vida comno o varis animales." "La conciencia de proteción se extende, basándose en el reverento a los derechos de los animales, a noos niveles que impensables haceos unos años." For our descendants, for our children, they are already unthinkable or unacceptable, for instance, entertainments which now suppose ill treatment with animals, don't they? There was a time when ill-treated practics in our society, animals, and generally have no place in our society, because they are now a crowd of people based on a greater respect for living beings. This has not been a change from night to morning; much less. And the most responsible for this change have been the numerous associations in defence of animal rights, which work daily at Euskal Herria. Associations to which I believe it is fair today to thank you for your work in defending a society more respectful of animals, because they were the first to talk about animal rights. And it is they and they who continue to work daily, on the street, in animal protection centres, in foster homes, etc. This proposal for a law provides, as previously the ordinance adopted in the City of Gasteiz, for the protection of animals, in collaboration with associations for the protection of animal law, for important concepts, such as abandonment, one of the most serious problems in this field; or, also, the prohibition of inappropriate practices, such as mutilation for aesthetic purposes or prohibitions of keeping animals bound for hours and hours. And it is also true that the adequacy of sanctions to amounts commensurate with the seriousness of possible infringements will probably help to make things change. There is still a great deal to be done, but we may say that it is time for public advances to receive laws. And it seems to me that the determination of this law is intended. I'd like to thank Mr. Becerra, for being a pusher of the law, and also for the possibility of making contributions to us in the legal proposition, and also for inserting accounts in the text that has been introduced. However, today the protection of the legal proposition does not mean that the text should not be altered, because there are at least two places where there are worries about the text that is present today, does it not? On the one hand, those who live with animals, and employ show-acts which are directed to the children by nations and nations, e.g. Larrebehi Society, and from their own hands have come so many uneasinesses, have they not? And, on the other hand, he has made the commission of the rights of animal rights, which is a part of the united Procursors of the Court of Biscay just arrived. And according to the consideration sent the day before yesterday, the law would require some major changes. We must therefore be attentive to the utmost of the public protection of this law. And that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u10	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. We have an animal protection law of the year 93 in this country. By the way, a law which, in recent times, has been talking about the new legislation, I have heard very well, that it was advanced for its time, and modern. They had to have heard in October of 93 and November of 93 what was said about that law, that it was retrograde, that it had been cut short... But, in this country, we're used to the fact that when you finish a career, they keep the medal, and they give it to you when you retire. But, well, that's another topic. As I was saying, we have an animal protection law; it has been 26 years, and social opinion has changed substantially. In others, unfortunately, it has not; but, in this matter, it has changed a lot. And, therefore, we are all agreed that legislation needs to be changed; it needs to be adapted. And that new legislation, in any case, will only have one judgment: it will be anthropocentric. It is a law that, in the relationship between human beings and domestic animals, we are going to draft it by humans, the homo sapiens In any case, we, our group, from the very beginning, thought that a law of these characteristics, a new law, should be based on two fundamental legs: one, the contribution of the organizations dedicated to the protection of animals, which are the social spearhead of the opinion on the new relationship that has to be had with domestic animals, and, although they do not necessarily imply the average of social opinion, we do understand that their philosophy, their vision, has to be reflected in the law. And the other leg is that that philosophy had to contrast with the administrations that had to manage the law. Because, in the end, a law of these characteristics will certainly have a great workload in the administrations, and the administrations have to give their realistic view of what is possible to manage these new subjects. We know that the law that Elkarrekin Podemos brings, the preliminary draft law that he has worked on, has the vision of protectionist organizations. I believe that you have come here today to ratify that it is. And we know that we have worked with the administrations that are going to manage, mainly with the outlaws, which are the ones that are going to have the most workload with this law. Therefore, our yes is a yes to a preliminary draft law, which we know is being worked with Euskadi animal protection organizations, worked with the Euskadi administrations, and also with the guarantee and the will of the proposer to continue to negotiate throughout the process of the law until its end. Our guarantee is that we will work intensively on what remains of negotiation in order to advance in the law and, above all, in expediting the processing of the law, so that it can be approved before the end of the legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Second point on the subject list: "Motion. Mine from Kottaja in Ibañez, introduced by members of the EH Bilt team, about the retrogression of Euska Autonomy in the community. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The lady's Kortja's... Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u12	Well, thank you, Mrs. Congressman, and members of the legislature, all of you, good morning. A couple of weeks ago, we took an interpenetration on the report presented by the FOSSA. And then I mentioned the feminist Philosopher of Silvia Gil, and I also wish to mention it to you today, because I should say that this philosopher has received a very good deal of the paradox of this people, which has lately been discussed by the study and reading of the studies and reports which have lately been made about poverty and social shores. And it explains that we're losing our time in this country, and it seems to me that it's a reflection to be taken seriously. I mean, it's ours but it's the narrative of a 'yes'. In any case, it's a new narrative and ours that's represented by reports like FOSSA. And it is true that we have a people with a high degree of integration (which is situated in that society of our people at 85% of our population) and have low edge rates: In this sense we have the lowest figures of the whole state, but not the lower ones are the fours at this moment, and we are losing position in that sense. And it is true: As this is true, it is true that ours is a society introduced in a process of polarization. That it rises in a highly striking manner, and that it is almost 20 points to indicate that this or that boundary of the entire inculction or of the total, but even the most violent debasements, in our country, 68%, and already 334 thousand persons who are in a state of social equality, are the people who are in a state of social indifference in our country. The global waste rates are scarce reduced to ours, and, further, the restrictions, the positions of the declivity make a lot of weight, and it may also be said that their situation is crooked, and that difficulties accumulate in ours those who are in the state of retirement. And high inclussion rates, yes, but they must be determined by our people, because, as we remarked on the report of the EPDS, there is another element in which the FOSSA report appears to us in the photograph of FOSSA, which is very disturbing to the future, and that of uncertainty. For, even in this field of integration, there are 360 thousand persons in a state of uncertainty. We are talking about a large group of people who grow remarkably, who are in a situation of insecurity, who are on the edge, without mattress, and who will be the first to fall or who at least notice the symptoms of the economic slowdown. A group that has grown much in recent years and that, proportionally, is much larger than the one that presents the state and is what represents the broken Euskadi. A reality that necessarily matifies that initial figure of 85% of society included, because it reveals how people are experiencing the process of economic recovery. And they're living it with a brutal level of life insecurity. That's what the data reflect. Perhaps you'll tell me again that I bring a symplistic analysis into this field, and it's true that the data of FOSSA is very strong, it's a very deep study, and that here it's a monographicgraphic, but not all can be brought. But I must say yes that I do that picture that appears in the FOSSA. And I think that's the important thing, because with its positive aspects and its negative aspects, it represents the new reality that shows itself very well. And I dare say that they have understood the existence of this new reality very well, because in the past few weeks there has been a great deal of talk about FOSSA in the media, and even to the thread of the budget negotiation, the data about FOSSA has been found constantly. And above all, the FOSSA brought forth these new realities: those situations in which they live in poverty, such as the rise of neglect and such data. Eta esango nuke dagoeneko eralitate hori hain de la ukaezina ze, zuek negazionismo-saiakera eginda ere, batzuetan onartu egin behar dituzuela ukaezinak diren eralitateak. To the point that I am going to tell you an anecdote that happened to me, after the inquiry that we made, that I made, to Mrs Artolazabal the other day, in a new exercise of negationism, the Department of Employment went up a tweet Which, I think that proves that we're facing a reality, because it's... its ukaezina, ez? In any case, we explained clearly to the chief physician in the interpelation, and I'd like to remark that today, with this enterprise of ours, interpelation and activity, it was not descriptive. At this moment, and in front of this narrative, it was our intention to discuss how we react and how we focus the exit. And in this sense, when we look out of this, or see how we go on other occasions, there are two tendencies which this government has, and which make us very uneasy; First of all, we were talking about that negionism. In a certain way, do we see that governments sometimes do not admit that they are data rather than admit that they always attempt to emphasize these positive facts, and that they insist on it? When the reports of the EPOS were examined, and even when the FOSSA did, they tried to insist on what positive elements were made, and what did they not? Of course, now I admit that there are others that are disturbing. In front of them, of course, you will say that your intention is not to be made, that you are not content, that this nation is making a great effort to protect them. And I won't deny that. But sometimes I sometimes think of Adela Cortina as her Aporophobia. And at the same time it seems to me to be a kind of disturbing amnesia with the responsibilities or commitments they are engaged to. We have heard here the Chief of Artolalliers, and we have heard the Government repeat our approach, or how we have overcome our unemployment by 10%, right? But we've never heard of it lately, and we haven't heard anyone say there was one between the commitments made by the President here, and the reduction of the poverty of 20%, and of the success of that purpose, no doubt, we're very far away. And this oblivion or amnesia seems to me to be extremely conspicuous. I remember when we examined the EPDS's data, the distant one talked about having to study the data deeply. And I said to her today I'm telling her that I'm completely in agreement with her, right? Besides, we heard also the chief physician and the deputy physician say that the data of reports like EPDS was very important because the following plannings were made on it. But we have not seen that any profound analysis has been made about these facts, or that we have not seen any further analysis, nor have we seen any intention of defining long-term strategys. And the budgets presented by the department, I said it the other day, but to me they're a clear indicator of what's there, right? They are a clear indicator that this reality described by the EDPS survey, and subsequently ratified by FOESSA, has not been able to reorient this year's budget as little as possible, nor to reinforce it, nor to correct it. As for the rest, the funding of incomes has been decided to be concentrated on the reductions of incomes, is decided to maintain that choice, and instead of filling the revenues of money, we want to establish by budget the amount of rent to guarantee revenues, right? At a annual political sale the amount is now determined, and according to the political will and criteria of the fun and bargainers, the guarantee of the income of thousands and thousands of people remains within. And honestly, what we negotiate here is whether a shorter is less or less. But we negotiate a constraint. And now, in the name of posiism, realism, and utility, against everything hitherto defended, which has been offered to join the auction. But, bread, bread, and cuts, cuts. And, look, surely, not wanting to call things by their name has prevented today, inexplicably, we have an agreement with Podemos, and with Elkarrekin Podemos. Perhaps what has happened today is the first example or the first staging of the consequences of the budgetary agreement and what they limit, those agreements, actions and the power to develop what is said or the power to do what is intended to be done. Because, in the end, the draft budgets present 20 million less for income guarantee income, and, according to the adviser, because the economic recovery has allowed people to leave the benefit system, because they have other possibilities. What happens is that I believe that reports like FOESSA or the realities of poor workers make that reading simplistic, and it is so simple that it only serves to justify a reduction in investment in social investment. There are no answers, for example, to situations of vital precariousness or the worsening situations of women in such data, which, by the way, call into question the equality policies that have developed in recent years. Nor for pensioners. Nor for those women pensioners, who, as we knew yesterday, are the ones who suffer the biggest gender gap, are they? Nor in the field of our competences, eh? Because, it is not even intended to launch that campaign that we agreed two years ago, so that all those people who are pensioners, who are entitled to the income guarantee income but who do not access it for different reasons, can access it. We don't have that either. And neither do we have an answer, for example, to families, right?, to families with children, which we know is where the situations of poverty accumulate, or to situations of energy poverty, which we know to be at the head, not only of Europe but of the State. There are no protection bets and, moreover, not even with that budgetary agreement reached with Elkarrekin. We can reverse that situation, can we? The reality is that those 16 million that we have talked about We may not have a budget allocation, which I understand that being expandable credit includes them there; the reality is that, despite that, the investment in income guarantee income, housing benefit and AES for this year is going to be smaller than that made in 2019 and will be the lowest in the last 6 years; I think that is quite eloquent. And then all the changes are referred to reform, a reform with which I believe that we should all be honest now, and the truth is, if all protection or the strategic vision on protection in this country depends on what will come from reform, as we make it clear. Nor is there a bet for the development of the Social Services Act; it is clearly seen in the field... of the memory that accompanies the budgets, nor in employment; neither in employment, despite the fact that the data in this sense, are brutal: 100,000 people who do not arrive at the end of the month, despite being currando, 100,000 people. 20% of income-guarantee earners are workers; 8% of workers are in poverty. And I think it is more than obvious what the situation is, isn't it? Nor has this situation been reversed by the agreement reached with Podemos on budgetary matters, has it? I was reminded of this by my colleague Mikel Otero, who recently came from Mexico – I think this is the case, isn't it?; we are faced with the same situation–: if the thing goes well, mezcal, and if the thing goes wrong, then mezcal; also the same thing, right? And the question is that, doing the same, as we are losing inertia, we are no longer going to stay the way we are; the question is that we are going backwards, and we are losing positions to forced marches, and the indicators are very clear in that sense. It is clear that this nation requires a clear political project, which aims at prosperity. That this country needs a political project that will make the radical side of life. And he needs a government that will carry that forward with determination. Besides, this government, besides the origin of necessary alliances and complicity, must lead to a strategy on the two axis. On the one hand, the policies around the protection will have to be altered, to end the times of reduction, and to try to find some answers to this new reality. If it is not in the way of reform, let us be honest, and if it is agreed or agreed on, let us not wait; let us bring them in and make them all agree. For example, "los incentivos al empleo." And you have to create options. I believe that the data is already very eocene, and that this country has a very clear notion of a serious affair in the country. And the facts are very clear: in the last two years, the poorest people in this town lost 6% of their income while the richest have won 10%. You're afraid of the bitter mateko eta prekarizazio-prozesuari the bitter mateko garaia was her heldua. Eta hori, Europatik ILOSk eta bestelako erakundeek aipatzen diguten bezala, tartean Gobernuak bere pleguaren inguruko jardunaldietara gobidatzen dituen horiek gomendatu bezala, datorela... comes from the implementation of minimum wage policies, which, by the way, is a recommendation made by the ILO, following the objectives of sustainable development, which speak of reducing...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u13	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u14	Bai, barkatu... They talk about reducing inequality rates in countries, especially by emphasizing the incomes of those with lower incomes, by 40%. That is why we are already setting up minimum wage policies. It is necessary that this people bet on the minimum salary of 1,200. And we have examples: We have no jurisdiction, but we have precedents. And the autonomous communities that think as a village, like Catalan, are beginning to process that process. They're beginning to do it, and they've already defined their minimum wage, and they're already starting this social process of contacting, overcoming their problems, to start this process together. And we think it's also essential for us to do that. And, of course, this also leads us to a profound consideration about our jurisdictions. We need, at the same time, a new state, which will define the sphere of communication and protection, and which will enable us to determine in all these matters our own right, to be able to adapt and useful to our so-called social reality and to our political choice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u16	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President, good morning. Well, I have to start remembering that once more, it's been obvious that in the past ten years, Eukadin has been greatly mistaken in the state of weakness. But even more, we should go back to 86th year to find in 2018 such disturbing data as the incest of poverty and social inequality. Euskadin, at the present day, lives almost half a million people, who have difficulty in facing the cost necessary to ensure the proper level of life; for in the last ten years the number of families which have difficulty in lighting the stove is 125,5 seeds in winter. In the same way, only after 10 years, the amount of families that can't deal with the usual expenses has made 83%,7% up, with the delays of 122,5 rents, or hipoties that are not paid or paid. And this shows that, during the last few years, this Eucharisma, which we have insisted on from Podemos, exists, and that the neighborhood, the country, and above all, is creating a greater and greater crack between the inhabitants. And, in this sense, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we have proposals and measures to end the social and territorial gaps in Euskadi today. Because it is truly serious that in 2018 in the Basque Country the population in serious poverty is 64.9% higher than in 2008 and the people in relative poverty is 20.2% higher. And, in the face of this, we believe that there is nothing else to do but act, act to improve. And, in this sense, we understand that it is necessary to move forward in three indispensable steps: First, immediate responses must be given to those who are experiencing the worst. There are people who need to solve the basic needs of their daily lives, and there must be institutions. And that is why we reaffirm our commitment to eliminate the cuts that income guarantee income has suffered since 2011. And in that we will always be from Elkarrekin We can: step by step, but never forget what our horizon is. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that responding to urgency is absolutely compatible with the search for profound structural improvements. To this end, as we add in our amendment, we believe that, on the one hand, it is up to us once again to ask the proposing groups to withdraw the proposal for a law on income-guarantee reform, and, on the other hand, to reform Law 18/2008, on income-guarantee and social inclusion, in order to make progress in the area of social protection and to deal with the new realities of the twenty-first century, in a more just, more secure and gender-sensitive manner. And this should be done, once we have already heard the experts in Parliament, introducing a bill with the relevant reports and including the common elements of the vast majority of those experts. Thus, we believe that it is essential to take into account three fundamental axes: firstly, to move towards the individualization of income security income, including the gender perspective; secondly, to facilitate the management of income security income, and thirdly, to reduce its conditionalities. And, as a third step, it must be understood that, beyond looking at the immediate and the short term, it is necessary to move towards structural and profound transformations and improvements. We must take into account the existence of practical needs and strategic needs. The former refer to the material and immediate; the latter to the transformations of the pillars of inequality. And, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we have been working since we arrived at this institution constantly and firmly, to give immediate answers and also to pave the way for transformations. For this reason, our horizon remains and will continue to be to bet on ensuring the material existence of all the citizens of Euskadi. And we have said this by both active and passive: deep transformations are needed; solutions are not always worth it, because guaranteed minimum income systems have holes and people are falling for them. He said, a month and a half ago in this very rostrum, that we must explore systems that guarantee and deepen the universal right to protection, in the face of policies inspired by assistanceism. We cannot continue to defend a system that neglects much of the population in need, or that, if it does, does it by seeing it as different. And that's one of the challenges we have as a society. Because as important as the challenge of the necessary industrial transition of our country, as that of achieving a future worthy of our youth or of equality between women and men, is the challenge of guaranteeing a life worthy of all citizens. And in situations like the current one, with an economic crisis around the corner, is when politics and agreements are more necessary than ever. This Tuesday, I read in the newspaper some criticisms of the agreement of Elkarrekin Podemos and the Basque Government for the year 2020, to facilitate the budgets of the year 2020. But in order to move forward and give concrete solutions to citizens, we need to translate good intentions into concrete proposals, to step up to dialogue between different people, to negotiate and to achieve good agreements for people. Because what would happen if all political parties stayed in our corner, entangled in words and expressions of desire. It would be very simple. The budgets agreed with the People's Party would have been extended for the year 2018, where the increase in GIR would have been a small 1.5%. And in the face of this injustice, Elkarrekin We can decide to get wet and get to work, to try to improve the daily life of more than 52,000 families, who see them raw to reach the end of the month. And what has Elkarrekin achieved Can we, after hard weeks of negotiation, about our social protection system? Basically, I would like to emphasize two measures, which I think are perfect for what we are discussing today: The first one that, in addition to the 3.5% increase that Elkarrekin Podemos facilitated in the GIR in February 2019, we have managed that by 2020 the annual increase will be 7,64 %. The second is that it has been possible to ensure that the final design of the subjective right to housing does not mean that those who in the future become recipients of the supplementary housing benefit are not entitled to receive the economic housing benefit. And we are aware that there is still a long way to go and that we are not going to settle for these increases. But we are also aware that people who currently access our income guarantee system by 2020 will be in a better position than they were in 2018. And they'll be in a better position because it's justice and because Elkarrekin Podemos has decided to get wet, instead of staying on the ground.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u18	Thank you, President. We are going to discuss a subsequent motion for an inquiry by the EH Bildu Group concerning the step backwards in the Basque Autonomous Community in social cohesion. We have already discussed, very recently, another very similar motion, tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, concerning the improvement of the living conditions of Basque citizens, within the plenary session of 31 October 2019. They are very similar initiatives, brought to this House with only a month and a half of difference. Recently, we are getting used to the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu groups copying the initiatives and repeating them, with very few variations in the proposed initiative. In the inquiry, Ms Kortajarena focused her attention on the data included in the EDPS survey, in the FOESSA report. Within it, it is noted that the percentage of the population in full inclusion in the Basque Autonomous Community is 85 %, having increased 20 points between 2013 and 2018, i.e. in the last five years. So the data is better than it is right now. And the social exclusion rate in Euskadi remains among the lowest in the state, although it has hardly been reduced in recent years and gains weight in severe exclusion. However, despite these data, there has been a comparative loss of income in the lower-income population groups, while the most disadvantaged population growth occurred. And that, despite the fact that, in our Basque Autonomous Community, it intervenes above the rest of the autonomous communities, with our income guarantee income, in particular 35% more than the state average. And this risk of social exclusion is raised between households with children, large and single-parent families, women, young people, unemployed people or immigrants. And, therefore, we must continue to fight to avoid chronification in severe exclusion, and to keep integration increasing. We have the IV Inclusion Plan, which has a multidimensional vision, in coordination with the parliaments and municipalities, and the entities of the third sector. Of course, we must continue to work on improving and advancing protection in our autonomous community, but we do not share the catastrophic images of the current situation, and because we want to continue improving, we have begun a reform of the Law on Income Guarantee and Inclusion. And, precisely, within the current bill in this House, as has been acknowledged by many, families with children, persons with disabilities, single-parent families, victims of gender-based violence benefit more in size, in particular, groups at greater risk of social exclusion and severe exclusion. Precisely, it was presented as a bill, in order to be able to have the reform of the income guarantee system long before; but, although a year ago, in June 2018, it was requested by the EH Bildu group and by the People's Group to continue to negotiate, however, none of the opposition groups in this House made a proposal that would facilitate such a rapprochement and reach an agreement. We also have measures to alleviate energy poverty. I wonder what the figures would be if these reforms had been completed by the end of 2018, as they were intended, because those amounts could already be applied, for a year now. On the other hand, important steps are being taken within the budgets to strengthen labour integration policies in income guarantee income, etc. At the plenary session on 31 October, the amendment to the whole presented by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group was adopted, and since this initiative was very similar to that presented at the plenary session on 31 October, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group proposed an amendment to the whole similar, just as we had put forward in that initiative. We therefore believe that we want to defend in this plenary this amendment to the whole that we have tabled between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, in which the Basque Government was urged to continue to deploy and develop the Basque system of social services. The Basque Government was also urged to develop social inclusion policies, from a cross-sectoral perspective and with an interdepartmental articulation, as envisaged in the IV Integration Plan, and we bet on the parliamentary handling of the proposed income guarantee law. We have not tried a compromise amendment with the EH Bildu group, because we believe that the 2020 budget is based on protection policies. It is not right to say that it is not committed to protection policies, because it is committed to those protection policies within the 2020 budget. And we also did not agree on the payment of a salary of 1,200 euros on all contracts with public money, without counting the amounts according to sector and agreement. We will make progress in the coming months, probably in negotiations to improve the interprofessional minimum wage, to make improvements together for all citizens. But we do not agree to take action for some collectives, yes and for others, not, but for everyone. We did not agree with the request of the Elkarrekin Podemos group, which has requested the withdrawal of the proposed law from income guarantee income, because we believe that we should not waste any more time. And that's why we haven't tried a deal with the Elkarrekin Podemos group either. What needs to be done is for you to present the amendments, once we have already concluded the appearances within the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, and we can discuss and enrich the text with the contributions presented, so that all these improvements can be made by citizens as soon as possible. The Group of the European People's Party has not tabled an amendment, but I hope that it will not support the amendments tabled either by the EH Bildu Group or by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, which are directed in this direction. We, as I said, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, will support our amendment as a whole. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u19	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. About a couple of weeks ago, from this tribe, I heard Mme. Ubera say that the enterprises of the legislature were to advance, according to which she introduced them, I think it may be said for our sake, and, for instance, the subject of the cabal here today is the same as we discussed on the 31st October. And that's why our position is exactly the same. It's all changed. It's a proposition. For, as may be seen throughout the whole legislature, it may be said more than by whom the enterprise presents itself, that there is a competition for being the champion of the theme. At that time, the incest of poverty and social differences joined us in the return of this arrear, and this time we are principally collected by the FOESSA report. And, in fact, both reports say similar things: they present the light and shadows of our society. And in a political game, it seems that the work of opposition appears to be shadows, and to emphasize the lights that protect the government. And some call others "tremostasta and catastrophist," and they tell us that we are self-collectors and trunifalists. We make this report of ours. And we respect a lot what this report says, and so do the others. And it is evident that there is a tendency to be taken seriously. And I don't think we've been and we've been. But, to be perfectly honest, and if we are really careful, and need a clear photograph for a direct examination of things, you have guessed, Madam Kortja's, that when you said that the whole examination of the data is to be done: that I said in the previous discussion, and that I shall say again. We need a picture for a direct test. We need a direct photo. And apart from the facts and information you've mentioned, and without denying any of them, this report FOSSA, as that it's due to the total 85% of the inhabitants of the Basque Autonomy. Well, this socialization is not the same in all cases. And here also there are differences and its layers. El 85% de la poblacion de la Comunidad Autónoma de Eusucia de inclusion plona. La inclusion ha mejorado considerate entre los años 2013-2018, being that the percentages of full integration have grown by 20 percentage points. Thus, the precarious rate of social inclusion has fallen from 44 to 28 %, and exclusion levels have fallen from 17 to 15 %. And if we hold the last known facts, the poverty of the extremes leads to 51 from the population of 1,000 to the population, whilst in Europe it is from one to 60. All this, in the index of Gini, places us under four points of the European Union, and in order to estimate the benefit of this index, it is better to be inferior than to be placed above it. And don't let anyone tell me that I'm a self-conscious car, and it must be confessed that this index of Gin has gone up a little a bit lately. Besides, with the job and the housing, the downfall of the people who had been attacked by the denomination has been remarkable. They are the most conditioned variables of society and progress. But, although it stands in front of a good context, it is another thing that has happened, a comparative loss of money in the least income groups. Unfortunately, there's a chronification and a chronic denomination. When the consideration of poverty, as a relative phenomenon, increases the average income, it makes poverty grow, and the meanness of poverty is established according to the averages of specie. And if growth is not effective, the portal of social perfection can grow. In like manner, two phenomena of our time are of great importance; emigrations and the age of society. And the FOSSA report has also spoken of them, because it is an important pressure for both of them to deal with the situations of retirement. And those who are to consider how the key of money invested in the affairs of society, as much as in number or number, is not divided between groups and population profiles. This is a challenge of the size. And, in front of the big problems and hinges, what do we propose? What is it that Podemos proposes especially to us, as well as to the rest of the world? The gathering, like the first step, invites us to "to be so far from obtaining the poverty that is related to the socializing and the beautiful for the distribution of wealth, to 20% of the goal of reducing" as you can see, the inevitable measure, the decoration, the closeness of poverty. If that's the first measure... But don't worry, because poverty shows up. He went down-not as much as we wanted, but that went down too. Two. Collect who proposes to us the second: "To think it very improper to keep the selection in the course of 2020 budgets, in order to expand and strengthen the financial policy, and to keep the selection deep in the course of the rental reductions. And therefore demand the payment of the revenues to be retaken, and the execution of the Law of Society, to the time of diminution over preparation." Is this a challenge like that when you talk about poverty or socialization? Is that so? Are these measurements, decoration, and the estimate of the budget as inappropriate. Is that the alternative? Three. "To play significant policies that will aim at a social employment, to be committed to a minimum of 1,200 francs in all the contractes that are fostered with public money." But we think the way is different. And then, on the afternoon of the day when this report of FOSSA was introduced, after an entire meeting here, I stayed in Donost, in the course of the work that took place by the report, and once again I could hear Zakálain from the committee. And this, in the presence of so many listeners, composed of social workers and branches, plainly explained which... which is the key in this respect. And I'll describe it to you in the presentation with your words. It said: "Consolidar y maintainer un productivo compettivo en un marco globalizado y a mismi tempo inclusivovo, que genere niveles redudos de poora y reverentos sufibilis, financian model de procción social." For here all propositions are permitted, and probably all will be good, but this also requires reflection about the financial system. You guys, well... it seems to us that the patterns you propose do not know how far it strengthens and maintains a competitive production system. And the fourth point. "The rights of parties, including the jurisdiction of passive employment policy, are to negotiate at once their change of hand." Well, all right, all right. But only two shades: but I do not think it wanting to be attributed to this government. And two. And so long as all these powers are not obtained, are the measures before mentioned are the alternative? As for Podemos, just one thing. What they are asking for, really, is the withdrawal of the proposal of the law for the guarantee of income, considering it necessary to reform the current law of guarantee of income in order to make progress in the matter of social protection and to allow to face the new realities of the twenty-first century... Well, I believe, Mr Bollain, that you say everything a little bit, because, really, today, we have no intention of withdrawing the proposal for a law, precisely because our intention is to reform the current law, in order to make progress in the area of social protection and to deal with the new realities of the 21st century. And we are willing to share reflections with all groups, of course, also with you: absolutely open to those who may have an interest in moving forward on that path that you have so well described. In front of all this, we stand firm in our position, holding the position we had already spoken of in less than a month and a half. I mean, we have to work with the tools we've got in our hands to deal with this situation we're watching. I mean: To expand, to enlarge, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, always together with the rest of the Basque Institutions, and to join them, in accordance with what had been foreseen at the Stratific Office of Social Services, and to set up the permanent system of social services as a universal and public care. The politics of socialization developed from a series of intersectorial views, and by means of an interrogative structure to society. Act according to what was planned on the Euscal Plan, and establish the improvement of the Euscal system for the support of incomes, and for socialization, following the regulations of the legal proposition we have in hand. Those are our tools, our resources, our tools... They may be changed, but I believe they can be improved, but if we really want to get to the subject, seriously, seriously, with the themes of political society, we must leave them a little apart and deal with the tools we have and what we can have. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, good morning to you all. We live in times of economic goodness. We live in times of growth of economic activity in this community. We live in times of growth of collection, and we are currently dealing with budgets that record precisely those records of tax collection and, therefore, an increase in expenditure and investment by the Basque public administration. According to the Government, this is due to a notable improvement in economic activity. Others have the view that it is actually because they are taxing citizens, but it is not the discussion at this time. The truth is, there's money. And that money is used in many things. And economic activity is important; but when we look at certain data, such as that which Mrs Kortajarena has put on the table today, it is clear that there are people within the community who are suffering more than they had before, after that abundance of money available to the Government is not being used well enough, not to say that it is not being used for what should be done. The debate was opened by Mrs Kortajarena saying that the objectives set by the Government in the fight against poverty and social exclusion are not being met. To me, sincerely, it gives me exactly the same thing whether or not the objectives of the Government are met, said with all due respect, counselor, because sometimes with setting poor objectives, unambitious objectives, what is not achieved is to cover the social reality, which is gradually surrounding us. The data from the population survey, as all the speakers who have already spoken on this issue have said, are not good. There are some that may and there are some that may not; we can start discussing data. I will give, exclusively, one: those people who are in a situation of serious poverty have increased since the last survey; that is, if the last one was in the 16, sorry, the last data we have are the poverty survey of the year 2018, have increased the situations that... people, excuse me, people who are in this situation have increased, since 2016, by just over 5%; but, if we stick to the data of the last decade, they have gone from 66,540 people to 109,735 people. If we look at the faces of those 109,735 people, they will be with me if the objectives of the Government have been met or have not been met is the least; it may concern the Government, but it does not concern society. Why? Because it has increased too much, then something is failing: either the policies are not being carried out, as the Government says they are being carried out, or the policies that are being done are not the right ones, or a mixture of the two situations. Surprisingly, both opposition and government groups have said what they have said... or have focused their speeches on the modification of income guarantee income. We believe that this is not the solution to the problem. What we consider is that we have to get those people out..., not improve the RGI they are perceived to be in the economic and social situation they are in, what we understand is that we have to get those people out of the RGI stock exchange. These people must be given different options; basically, we will have to logically enter into job creation, job creation and improve working conditions, not increase the amount they will receive monthly through income guarantee income. Nor do I think the solution is that from the public administration a salary of 1,200 euros per month is guaranteed for 14 pay, which both Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu ask for in multiple initiatives. And I'd like to be didactic, and I'm going to set a very clear example. There are many companies in the Basque Autonomous Community that work both for the private sector and for the public. We start from the basis that these companies try to improve the lives of their workers, because, logically, they are interested as a company, and, if they work for both sectors, they will find that in those contracts on which they depend on public administrations they will have to pay a higher amount than logically, it will be deducted from the services they provide for companies, private companies or the private sector in general. What that would lead us to: that, by increasing to those 1,200 euros per month net for 14 pay in contracts that depend on the public administration, we will generate greater pockets of poverty for those workers who, within the same company, provide their services to the private sector. The measure, frankly, does not seem to me the most appropriate: to generate the illegal economic conditions to raise the inter-professional minimum wage there, which is an objective that I believe we still have very far away and more at the economic time and at the juncture in which we are moving at this time, would be the positive thing; but, of course, not with measures such as that through either the social clauses or the government's mandate to improve the economic conditions of all those who from the private sphere lend their work through public contracts. The other measure we are talking about is, I come back to it, the RGI, and here the salad of opinions is completely different. Bildu says that the budget situation is not well; Elkarrekin We can tell us that everything is very well, because they have substantially improved budgets, and they beat their chests with satisfaction; but at the same time, they ask that the bill be withdrawn, forgiveness, the bill put forward by the Basque Socialist and Nationalist groups and that it be the Government that makes a new bill for us. And I am going to reveal to you – now that no one listens to us, Mr Bollain – a secret: that proposal for a law, even though you think that they were parliamentarians of the groups that accompany us and that they support the government those who, for many hours of work, have been locked up in a room and drafted that proposal for a law that they brought to Parliament to try to amend the 2008 law, was not so. It wasn't like that... In an action that I would say can even eliminate irregularity or illegality, that project came from the government; then, the government, to skip all the legal procedures, all the mandatory reports, the legal, the economic impact, etc., etc., what it did was pass that draft that was unfinished, a badly done product, and brought it to the House. Then, the solution, Mr. Bollain, is not to give it back to... or that the groups withdraw it from the House and that it be the Government, among other things because the Government does not give time to finalize that project and bring it to the House within this legislature, and we will see the year again... in the next legislature, or they are going to see each other again in the next legislature discussing this same matter: the law has to amend it; the key is the government has, it is clear, and the government has to decide with whom it wants to amend the law. We have been told that the opposition groups have not taken steps to reach an agreement. That's just a lie; that's not true... The groups I know, specifically our own, have indeed been given the opportunity and we have offered opportunities to negotiate this law and to bring it forward within this legislature. And I think we're still in time. What happens is that the government, Mrs Artolazabal, has to choose, because we cannot try to get a new fiscal policy out of everyone, when these gentlemen say "we have to raise taxes"; these gentlemen say "we have to raise taxes a lot"; we say "we have to lower them"; you say nothing; and your governing partners say one thing, and another. You have to choose; you can't try to draw a bill as important as this, with all the groups, when we have such a very different view on this matter. The ball is therefore on the roof of the Government. And for that reason, because we do not understand that the debate is the handling of the GIR, which does not solve these problems and because, of course, we also do not believe that imposing economic conditions on contracts from the Government for workers working from private companies for public administrations will improve the situation of these 109,735 people, to whom the poverty survey refers, we are going to vote against the three positions that have been defended from this rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, Madame of Kottaja, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u24	Thank you. For starters, I'll tell Mr. I'll tell Mr. Esquire and Mrs Sánchez that I'm working with pretty seriousness too: I do not copy anything to anyone, and, furthermore, what I do not possess will be permitted to lie out of this door. And we've made proposals to ensure the incomes. Maybe you didn't find out, but you did. And the distance that Mr. Zalain spoke about, you can laugh what you want, but it's so... The distance was mentioned by Mr. Zalain, who planned this strategy forward, wasn't it? And I would like to ask Mr. Faraway what is the difference between Zálain's reflection and the study of the defense, and what is involved in this legal proposition. What's the problem with the two axes? The difference between the two axis strategy is that the concept of protection, the concept of protection, the concept of protection, the reorganization of protection, or the reorganization of those policies, the progress of the revenue to ensure the revenues, but with a income which is more suited to our reality, the progress of the laws of the Social Services, which, after a period of 10 years, is sometimes to be received by you, is lamentable, and, without doubt, what is the problem or the amount of difference between the incommensurability of the skulls, and the absence of the insurability of our voices, to apply to the minimum of Europe. And what is the difference between our social reality and ours, not ours, ours, ours, ours, ours. And what's the problem with thinking about it as a village. What's the problem? What difference is there between what has been proposed here and what Zalain has been proposed? And no doubt the difference between Zalain's planning and the strategy of this case is that the difference is enormous. And in this sense, as far as the medium of business is concerned, in principles and principles, which agree with you, there was a sphere of euphora for the communication of labour. But now, in the attempt which you have made to extend the treaty, one of the elements which have been left out is expressly chosen. And as to Poseidon, or Podemosis, or Podemosi and EQUO, I should truly ask where you are, where there is Podemos. And a direct question: If there's any reduction in that budget ratio or budget ratio, Mr. Bollain, is there, or isn't there? There's a lot of snitchs, aren't there? For in our opinion, and in your opinion, it was still in his opinion that, in the auction, the amount of rent is a serious reduction. And you've got a better one, and I'm not taking any care of these improvements because my professional, personal, and political life has moved around the rent to guarantee incomes, and I'm very much crossed with the reality of these people. But there are restrictions, aren't there? Did you accept a frame of constraint or didn't you? Eta, are larriagoa dena, zuek hartutako akordio edo ebaki hori justifikatzeko, nola da possabile, how you have swallowed up to assume, moreover, that possible, realistic, improvement discourse, in relation to income guarantee income. Here is a law, here is a law, which, so far, you have defended, which marks, which marks what are the references of income guarantee income. All you get out of there are cuts. All you get out of there are cuts! And we'll vote for your initiative today, because it seems important to say what's done and to do what's said. We think that's very important. It is important that the decisions taken in great laws should be in consistency with positions arranged in other controversies. And if, for example, you have this position of rent, to secure revenues, I do not know how you have not asked them, to withdraw from them, as a condition; I do not understand. But, in any case, if you believe that this legal proposition must be rejected, take up your initiative with us. We're ready for that, too. Where are you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Mr. Bollain, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u26	Yes, thank you again. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said about project, proposal, government, parliamentary groups, didn't he? And it is precisely that Mr Urrutia has also been forgotten, when he reviewed our amendment, that there is one point that says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to submit a bill with the relevant reports". So, you have forgotten to name that, and, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, we, too, put it in our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u28	Mrs Kortajarena, when she was talking about coherence too, I think we should first ask ourselves why we are now talking about how to withdraw the reform, right? Because everything comes because Euskal Herria Bildu, in June 2018, took a step back and asked the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party to withdraw the proposal from the debate, when you were trying to negotiate budgets or approach positions with the government for the 2019 budgets. And there, in June 2018, an opportunity was missed for the reform not to go through, because the People's Party was also going to vote against. And, despite its efforts to negotiate it with the Government, the Government decided to approach the People's Party, and it was ultimately the People's Party that abstained from this reform. So now you are trying to save the furniture, giving drowning handcuffs, and you are proposing an article that has never been used in this Parliament before. And we will continue to be consistent, constant and firm, always working to make opposition through ordinary procedures. And you will see which way you choose. And then you said, and we totally agree, and I am aware that both your parliamentary group and Elkarrekin Podemos and social groups aspire to law enforcement and without cuts. But we would also like to know what measures you propose to achieve that objective. Because I have been reviewing all the work; I was yesterday reviewing the parliamentary work carried out during this parliamentary term, in these three long years, and I have not found any initiative of yours or of your group with concrete measures to achieve the elimination of such cuts. And it is true that in the press I have read it many times, but parliamentary proposals I have not been able to find any. I have found three proposals of law, to which you also referred earlier, none approved, relative... –well, I don't know if any approved, any yes, but well –, relating to carrying out an awareness campaign, a communication code and on women pensioners. And I have also revised the first proposal with which your parliamentary group attempted, without success, to reach a budgetary agreement last year with the Basque Government. That proposal. [Orri beat erakutsi du] A year later, this cut has been reversed thanks to Elkarrekin Podemos; since, I repeat, as I said in the first intervention, in 11 months, doing politics responsibly with the people, we have achieved an increase of 7.64% every year. And this means that people or families who can't turn on heating, who can't eat meat or fish twice a week or who have trouble paying rent, by 2020 will have 50 euros more than they had just 11 months ago.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u29	Will you shut up, Mrs. Kotja's, please?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u30	What strikes me is that now you, who did not even agree on the GIR in your proposal for ceilings to negotiate last year's budgets with the Basque Government, are now talking in the media about selling smoke. In short, Elkarrekin Podemos has always defended and will always defend, with nails and teeth, the system of social protection. Since we have arrived, we have been working for an ecological, feminist, fairer, more egalitarian, more cohesive and democratic Euskadi. And that is why, in the face of another crisis and the great challenges ahead, we choose to jump and get wet; because people need concrete solutions, and not just declarations and expressions of desire. And we have understood that, in this time of instability and blockades that has touched us, the most responsible is to move towards agreements. It is time to move from the trench, where we are all very comfortable and comfortable, to the agreement between different, so that we can improve, step by step, the life of the citizens of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u32	Mr Bollain, my group, the Basque Socialists, have also defended the whole social protection system from the very beginning with our fingernails and teeth. We are committed to it from the outset, and we will remain committed to it in the future. There's no doubt about that. What is clear is that the consequences of job insecurity have been alleviated – and that is evidence – thanks to our income guarantee system. A system that not only establishes amounts for those who do not have a job, but also complements those low wages and complements those low pensions. And that has greatly alleviated the consequences of social exclusion in our Basque Autonomous Community and severe exclusion. It was recognized recently in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, and Mrs De la Rica said: there is no such opportunity in other autonomous communities, and we also need to make further progress. I agree with you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, on job inclusion. This is also reflected in the proposed Income Guarantee Income Amendment Act and for inclusion. We must continue to struggle to continue to increase and improve full inclusion and also to reduce the numbers of social exclusion and, fundamentally, those of severe exclusion. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, we agree to continue to improve the interprofessional minimum wage. The Government of Spain, this year, has been able to approve the advance in the highest interprofessional minimum wage in all its history. And we are going to continue along that line; but, also, as I said in my first speech, I agree with you that it cannot be done in pieces, for some, for others not, but that these reforms have to be done together and globally for all citizens, in order to avoid distortions that can also occur within the labour market, because, in trying to favour some collectives, you can, in the end, end up harming also much more others. And, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, we are referring to income guarantee income, because, in the proposals that have been made within this initiative, we are calling for the withdrawal of the proposal for an income guarantee law. So, obviously, the reference to this is that it is obligatory, is that we have presented that, as I indicated in my first speech. And it is not true that you have stated that this has been done to avoid making the relevant reports. That's not the truth, and you know it. It was intended to be able to separate the debate from all the electoral processes we have had this year. And the way to do that was to present it through a bill. It has been said, it is not the first time that that is said, it is not a... it is not something that is hidden there; it has been said and affirmed by us, by active and passive, from the beginning. You didn't get the effect that I know, or the... the end, which was intended, because in the end an agreement could not be reached, but it is also not true that you made a written proposal. You asked questions; at no time did you make a written proposal, because I participated in that negotiation. It is true that this proposal was put forward by the EH Bildu group, and a proposal by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, but no agreement was finally reached. The Elkarrekin Podemos group parked, it is also a reality, that negotiation, because it focused on the debate of budgets, and, in the end, it did not reach an agreement neither for the budgets of 2019 nor for income guarantee income. That's the reality of what happened. So, let's be serious, and let's say here things as they are and as they have occurred in all this processing. But we are where we are and we have to keep moving forward. And we are here, we are in this House, and what we need to follow is the bill in this House, so as not to waste any more time, as I said in my first speech. And to present the amendments that we consider relevant to all groups in order to improve the text that has been presented, as is done in the other laws that are presented in this Parliament, and to ensure among all, with the maximum consensus, that this law is the best possible for all citizens. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u33	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u34	Thank you, committee... the President of the legislature. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I will only give you one thing: since 2015, more than 13,000 people have stopped receiving GIR because they have found a job, because the improvement of the economy has also given opportunities, knowing that the problems that exist, even with obtaining a job, and being aware of the reality that we live, with different phenomena such as that of the poor worker, etc., etc. But that's the thing. Mr Bollain, I have not forgotten anything, I have not forgotten any point. What's going on is that... No, no, yes, yes, you will understand that, if you ask me to withdraw the bill and I have no intention of doing so, as a result, it is most likely that, without withdrawing the bill, I do not believe that the Government is going to introduce another bill, which I think is very well what you proposed and in the terms that you did, but it is that one led to the other; that is why I have made no comment on the third point of your amendment. And, listen, look, I, personally, was glad to hear it, I was glad to hear things like, "We have to move from the trench to the agreement between different." I am, we are, absolutely, in agreement, and you know that we are in the same line also with regard to the reform of the GIR, for example, right? I see that it is not for the work, but we do; that is, we are willing to move from the trench to the agreement between different. I say so so that it remains in your knowledge. Look here, Madame Kortja's, there's one thing I've got: I will not question your seriousness at work. And besides, I think that many of the considerations you throw away are of the same nature as to reflect. But I don't want my seriousness to be doubted in case, why lie and copy and copy, and I use the facts others have given me, and they will often agree with what the chief physician has said and what others have said. But I'd appreciate it because I've never doubted your seriousness, but today I've seen you a little strange. Yes, yes, yes; no; I saw you a little strange today, and I think today you did not want to talk about poverty, you have other things to-day. You want to talk about the budget today, you want to talk about the new status, you want to... And I'd like to talk about it, but there's a lot better on my team to talk about these things than I do. I've given you a look at the budget corrections and you haven't even made a contribution to the resources that help poverty. We often say'say and do' here, and I think your talk has been more frequent than by saying and proposing to-day. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u35	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Sánchez, we must live, even though we share the same row of seats, we must live in parallel worlds; because you say that to the meetings we have had about RGI, in order to try to improve it, we have never presented a written proposal, and that is why I have not told the truth. And I must correct it, Mrs. Sanchez. Look, on two issues: I have never said that we have put forward a written proposal; I have told you that we have had multiple meetings, not one, multiple meetings from my group for income-guarantee reform. Meetings you have never attended, but neither have any of the members of the proposing parliamentary group of the bill. We have held those meetings with the Government; I insist, not one, many. And they have been meetings of explanation, of approach, of opening talks, of understanding what they were proposing... You're telling me no? Excuse me, Mrs Sánchez, I'll tell you where I've been, at what meetings: I could take the agenda and give you the dates and the people who attended those meetings. We have never been asked for a role, but we have approached many positions. And, of course, we have made clear where we wanted to move and where we wanted to go, and where we were willing to support the Government to move that law forward. And this matter has not been closed, and I said it in the first intervention: the Government must choose what it wants to do, if it wants to leave that law dead of disgust until the end of the legislature, if it wants to comply with the legislative calendar, which, by the way, was already known in the legislative calendar of the Government that there would be many electoral debates throughout this legislature, and despite that, the Government put on its timetable that it would be a bill, and then changed its mind, and then it was a bill. And I insist again: that was done to avoid all the reports involved in the processing of that law. Because the legal technique used in the drafting of that bill would not have passed all the filters. And the reports, for example, on the economic impact of that bill would have made it very clear what the real content of that bill was. And under these conditions it would have been very difficult to bring this bill forward, with the support of Elkarrekin Podemos or EH Bildu, who are now discussing whether the increases are already valid, are not valid, if the framework is good, if it is not good, if the law has to be amended or the law has not to be amended. Mrs Sánchez, all I'm saying is that I find it very sad that to those 109,735 people who are in serious poverty the answer this Parliament gives is simply "we're going to change the income guarantee income". No, what has to be launched, from here, is a completely different message: we are going to offer you an improvement in the situation of your life, not through the GIR, through which you can get economic income in the way that the rest of the families in Euskadi do. I think that's the message we have to move these people. And when from the groups that support the Government what is said in its amendment is that "we will continue to do it, we will continue to do it", I think it is giving a painful image; because, if we have passed, in ten years, from 66,000 people in that situation to 109,000, and the message that is being sent from the Government is that "we will get it, we will continue and we will continue to do it, and, in addition, we will change the income guarantee income"... If I were to find myself among those 109,000 people, I would pack my bags and go to live somewhere else, where I have a chance to get out of the situation of serious poverty, which is the situation in which they are, according to the survey carried out by the Government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The discussion is over, and we'll put the original text of Madame Ibañez's Kortax to the vote. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 18; the contrary, 45; the abstaining, the 11th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u38	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the full correction of Podemos. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 63; Abstations, 0.1 And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists in full-governance set up by the teams. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u39	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u40	It's a draw, so we'll vote again at the next round. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the American legislature of the Basque Group, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, to improve the efficiency of the border. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Ruiz de Abulo, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u41	Good morning, again, ladies and gentlemen. 15 days ago, in the last full session of the review, we were talking from the People's Group to Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, to the Security Adviser, about effectiveness and efficiency, about the criterion she had on effectiveness and efficiency, about the research work that has been carried out since the Ertzaintza. We focused on two specific situations: one, the improvement of the training of the Ertzaintza agents, and the other, the improvement of the material means at their disposal. She told us, in one of her answers, that research was indeed one of the fundamental axes of Ertzaintza's action. And we can share it, and we agree. And we fully agree with you, Counsellor, that the Ertzaintza staff is made up of great professionals, people who are left behind every day in the development of their functions and in the achievement of their objectives, who are nothing other than the protection of the rights and security of citizens. But what we don't agree that this group of great professionals... – which is very broad; there will be everything, of course, but we are indeed with the vast majority of the good professionals who make up the Ertzaintza staff – this group is well-directed. And you were telling us the other day that the training was good, that it was enough and that in recent years 460 agents had been trained – I think 462 agents said – with a large training course on criminal investigation. He also gave us the data that one in four agents of the Ertzaintza was engaged in the investigation. What leads us to think, if we make a quick mathematical rule, is that, if there are more than 2,000 agents dedicated to research, and if only 462 has been trained, the training should not be or does not reach all the agents that are needed. And we proposed a series of measures to improve the effectiveness of our police. Counselor, let's focus..., and it made clear to us something that I was not aware of, that it was necessary to activate the electronic file that I put in contact with the offices, the investigating courts and the prosecutors and the different units or sections of the Department of Justice with those of the Autonomous Police, so that we avoid having to see the agents carrying... preparing these attestations on paper, bringing those attestations to the courts, carrying them under their arms, which was an absolutely unsustainable expense and, above all, a waste of time and human personnel. Because, if that was done through a courier company, those agents could do something else. If you can email directly, or within the application itself, we will avoid those agents losing hours during the day. And that will mean that, with the same number of agents dedicated to research, the work carried out from the police stations will substantially improve. Because the reality, counselor, is that seven out of every ten crimes known to Ertzaintza remain in the police stations; they have no answer to the citizen. Seven out of ten citizens who dare to go to a police station to inform the police that they have been victims of a crime are left without any satisfaction, because the police are unable to identify the perpetrators of those possible crimes that the citizens bring to the attention of the police and because these files never reach the court. And, of course, since there is no knowledge of who was responsible for the crimes, they will never be punished by judges and courts, and of course citizens will never get any gratification in the face of their behavior. And I sincerely believe that measures such as those you are taking in certain central police stations in Bilbao are not the most appropriate. And I'm referring to those posters that decorate the police stations, where when you come in and see: if you've been the victim of a theft of a mobile, of a purse, of a mobile phone, you say, you have three options: either wait for a long queue, which is what you're going to touch waiting here, because there aren't really enough human means to serve the citizens, or wait for that long queue, and if you don't want to wait for the long queue, put the complaint via the Internet, listen, use a multicopy form of these and leave it at the counter, or, if not, what you can do is ask for a pre-date, that today there are a lot of people, tomorrow there will also be a lot of people, but we'll already give you a pre-date for you to come back. I think that's the result of the policies being made from the department. Since the crime resolution rate is very high, and here we do not count the crimes committed on the street, but the crimes of which the Ertzaintza is aware, we will prevent the Ertzaintza from knowing so many crimes, and we will – let us say – discourage citizens from informing the police of the commission of crimes, when they are victims of crimes of the so-called mild ones. Whether a person or a citizen is robbed of his or her wallet, purse with documentation, keys, or simply a mobile phone, is not a minor offence. Because, a mobile phone, in most cases, is a computer where people's personal and professional lives are put in there, and it remains in the hands of a third party, and that is a serious breach for the peace and tranquility of citizens. That you take the keys from your house, along with the paperwork, so that someone can get into your house, is not a minor offense. And that when you get to the police station you'll find a little sign of "come back tomorrow, that we're very busy" is because something doesn't work within the police station organization that you, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, run. That is why we have put a clear measure on the table: improve the electronic file. And you told us, clearly, that it was none of your business, that you duties have facts, and that it's a Department of Justice problem. Today, the Counsellor has not been able to come, and that this motion is addressed not only to you, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia. And, precisely, thanks to your explanations, we have extended that request which we want to make today from this rostrum to the Council of Justice to carry out all the necessary work. Because we believe that the ball is on its roof, after so many years, to put in place that electronic file system, which communicates police stations with the Prosecutor's Office and the courts. And even, in the title of the initiative, it is said that they are also other departments of the Basque Government, because, if Mrs. San José were here, she would come out to the rostrum and tell us that it is not her fault, that it is actually Mr. Erkoreka's or EJIE's fault, and that they are those of Computer Services... And they'd pass the hot ball to each other, and in the end we wouldn't get it going by 2020. We've just... Look at us being generous on time. A year. In a year, put that system in place. And, in that same, we ask you to improve the training of agents; basic training. The criminal proceedings, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, are very simple. The criminal process has a number of keys: we have an old law of prosecution, but perfectly structured... It's not perfectly structured for you, well... Well, that's your opinion. It is very improveable, especially because it is very old and it is very improveable, and times have changed a lot, but it is perfectly structured, which is the one that judges and prosecutors handle when exercising their functions. If the officers have a clear understanding of how this law works when instructing the attestation, they know perfectly well what points they have to deal with. And that training cannot be given to one in four agents dedicated to research; it must be given to all, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia. I think that's important and fundamental. And the special investigation of certain crimes, perhaps, should not be received by all agents. Perhaps we should have groups of highly specialized agents on a matter; very specialized in the pursuit of economic crimes. I know we have a unit. But if it doesn't give life to the poor, that no matter how much they dedicate themselves and are there 24 hours a day, they wouldn't give enough to investigate such crimes, which are highly complex. Environmental crimes. Nor does the Environmental Crimes Unit work as it should. And you had the support in Alava of the Unity of the Green Patrol, of the Minions, and they kicked them, and now, practically, they don't go out to perform their duties. Far from improving it, we have made it worse, that it was a model that could have been copied for other territories and we have done it backwards. And under these conditions so many other crimes that are, fortunately, small in number, but complex in their resolution, need a very specific training. And that is why we are asking you, through this initiative, that I believe it is simple and easy to implement, that, throughout 2020 and in compliance with the Basque Police Act itself, training should be improved in both cases: for all agents in some cases and for specific agents dedicated to the prosecution of very specific and very specific crimes, and that they need more special preparation. These are the objectives we ask of you today, Mrs Beltran de Heredia. And I am addressing you, also Mrs San José, and Mr Erkoreka, who is responsible for EJIE, so that the electronic file system can be put in place as soon as possible, within a year, and the training work that we have detected, that we all know and agree that they are not the best, that can be improved, as you acknowledged in the inquiry of the other day. And that is why we call for support from the rest of the groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u43	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today it is up to us to debate a motion just tabled by Mr Arbulo on policies aimed at improving the effectiveness of Ertzaintza. To begin with, I want to focus on the reflection on the security model, which is the fundamental basis for establishing what kind of police we want to have. For our parliamentary group, as we have already stated on many occasions, and, as we have already developed further during the debate on the fifth amendment of the police law, the definition of security, within the policies of the department of Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, focuses on the concept of citizen security and crime, in the face of the human security that we propose. Human security is defined as the condition of living free from fear and need. It is a broad concept, which includes a range of threats that can harm people's lives and well-being. Compared to the diversity of threats to human security, citizen security is a much more narrow concept. Indeed, citizen security can be understood as a specific modality of human security itself, related to personal security, and more specifically to threats such as crime and violence. And, derived from this model of security, we are faced with a police model that should respond to the real needs of the police, since most of the police interventions are of an assistance nature, far above concrete actions related to repression or crimes. And by focusing on Ertzaintza, the security model that we promote and promulgate is based on a formation of the same, diverse, multidisciplinary, complete, integral and standardized. That is, that the people who receive it can receive all the necessary training in the different areas and subjects. And, of course, to be compatible with the very development of their lives. A few weeks ago we discussed in this House, on the basis of an initiative brought to us by Mrs Llanos, that this training should be given in sufficiently large spaces and with the necessary material and that the aspiring people should not lose touch with reality and with everyday life, in addition to taking into account the reconciliation with the personal lives of each aspiring person. And it seemed important to us, because the police model has to settle, for our parliamentary group, in a transparent, prepared, conscious and knowledgeable Ertzaintza – and this is very important – of the social environment: An Ertzaintza close, capable and formed in the face of the new existing realities that violate human rights. An Ertzaintza that does not perform, under no circumstances, disproportionate actions before the defense of the jobs of the workers, as happened a month ago in the company Araluce de Igorre and as we denounce it in this Chamber. An Ertzaintza that protects, defends and guarantees trade union freedom, the right to strike and the right to work. Rights that are being threatened, and we must remember that their violation is a crime. An Ertzaintza that is prepared and intervenes in the face of economic crimes and corruption crimes. Corruption is an abuse of public power to gain an illegitimate advantage for private benefit, a constant to obtain favorable decisions from those who hold power. An Ertzaintza that acts in defense of the right to housing. But this is not, under any circumstances, the spirit of the fifth amendment of the police law last June, which was approved with the support of the group that today brings us the initiative, Mr Arbulo. We, from our parliamentary group, have already pointed out the shortcomings and inconsistencies of this law, which does not respond to the need for a change to a model of human security and, therefore, to a police model whose central axis is the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of all citizens. And we clearly believe that the initiative that has brought us today to discuss and presented by the Group of the European People's Party brings back measures that go in the same direction. And therefore, we tabled an amendment to the whole, which consisted of two points, urging the Department of Security and the Department of Labour and Justice of the Basque Government to incorporate, in the continuing and specialized basic training of the Ertzaintza, specific content related to a greater technical knowledge of all types of crime, especially those related to labour offences, working conditions, freedom of association, the right to strike and occupational health, economic crimes and crimes of corruption. In addition, the annual reports prepared by the Ertzaintza should incorporate the account of the proceedings resulting from all types of offenders dealt with, as well as the complaints received and their resolution in relation to them. In some ways, your amendment, as I have already said, seems to us to follow the same line of recent initiatives that you have put forward and of a debate that we had a few months ago, which runs counter to the model that we are defending, and that is why we will bet and vote in favour of our amendment, of course, and we will abstain from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u45	Presidenta, señorías... Listening to some demonstrations, it could be deduced that Euskadi is an insecure country, that the Autonomous Police is not effective, that the crimes remain uninvestigated, that the Justice acts poorly on the crimes, that there is no coordination in the Government in the tasks that necessarily have to be shared... I would like to know what sociological work these statements are based on. Because I have the impression that, often, particular opinions, very partial opinions are brought into this Parliament, which are to be classified as collective situations and majority situations. And that's not the reality. The data so support it; the contrasted data do not say or point to these claims. The majority of citizens have a sense of security. Only a very small percentage of citizens place insecurity as a problem. What comes out in the sociological samples is 4%. The level of resolution of serious or very serious crimes is very high, which is what really worries and creates insecurity for the majority of citizens when this happens. 25% of Ertzaintza is involved in these tasks through police investigation, judicial police or intelligence. Emergency procedures are high when compared with other administrations. The relationship with the judicial authorities and the Office of the Prosecutor is constant. A relationship that gets judges and prosecutors involved in the training of agents... Finally, I believe that problems must be placed, in any case, in the dimension they have and not in an invented, enlarged, misadjusted dimension, etc. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, with his initiative, asks us to operationalize the electronic file between Ertzaintza and all the police operating in Euskadi, with the Administration of Justice, and asks us to improve the training, to improve the training of Ertzaintza. We agree with both approaches: We want the electronic connection of the files, with this motion and without it, because we're working on it. We want to improve training, because the improvement of training is a continuous activity; it is not a punctual improvement, it is a continuous improvement, and we are doing it, with this motion and without it. Perhaps the greatest shock could occur in that approach of the connection with the rest of the police, when your lordship knows that that, today, is not possible; but I believe that in the intentions of what you propose and what you are doing and what you are working on, there is quite an approximation. We had offered him the possibility of an agreement. I believe that we could have done so if we had not deviated to other aspects which he did not raise in his proposal, in his motion. And then, well, he wanted to do it with other elements and, in the end, I think he got a little disconnected. Let's see how the things he proposes are right now. Look, on the first, on the connection: the convergence process in information and communication technologies, known as Batera, technically implies a temporary freezing of computer developments, until the adaptation work by the Government's Information Society is completed. It is in it, but it is in a process, and in a process that has its time. And this process will culminate in the first quarter of 2020; therefore, we are on the target that you set yourself, because it is the target that was already set by the departments concerned and by the Government itself. At that time, the service for the telematic presentation of certificates by the Ertzaintza may be developed, as requested by the services they have submitted, and the response will be implemented in two phases. However, a pilot is currently running with a police station and it can therefore be assumed that during 2020 the Ertzaintza will operate through the platform and will be able to manage the certificates electronically. On the second point, the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies is in a process of continuous improvement, in order to promote the best training of all the professional staff of the public security services of Euskadi. The 2020 budgets are a clear expression of this effort, in which one can appreciate the enormous educational effort that has been developed in recent times and that has forced all kinds of transformations within the academy, in order to better adapt to this need for training. In the near future, the governing board of the academy will approve its work plan for next year, in which the focus on improving research processes will be on both the basic scale training programmes and the specialization courses scheduled, as well as the refresher and further development programmes. It is also, as I said earlier, in constant collaboration with the Office of the Prosecutor and the Judiciary, involving judges and prosecutors in these methodological and training processes, and counting on their presence and their teaching work in this regard. The training given at the academy has no other objective than to prepare the best professionals. The curricula are being updated and modified, according to the needs and reality of each moment. We are faced with the renewal of the entire staff of the Basque Police. It has been 37 years since the first promotion of Ertzaintza began, and training has changed, as it cannot be otherwise, over the years, because it has also changed the crimes and problems we face in the field of security and justice. In relation to the entrance course, the subject of collecting complaints with the IAPA has been integrated since the 27th promotion, with a duration of 21 hours of practical classes and, therefore, the entire student of the entrance course is prepared for the collection of simple complaints, with a computer tool owning the Ertzaintza. In the case of the specialization of criminal investigation, the same is true: a course that was carried out from time to time, today is carried out every year. Since the last legislature it has been established like this. The course for the 160 places convened in 2018 is running throughout 2019 and until May 2020. And in parallel, on 28 October of this year, a new call for 170 places has been convened to run from May 2020. With regard to the legal update in criminal investigation, it is being done on the online platform
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u46	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. By contextualizing the issue, I must say that in the substanceation of the inquiry that gives rise to this motion, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, to talk about the effectiveness and efficiency of the Ertzaintza, he mentioned, superficially from my point of view, some fairly interpretable data, such as the increase in crimes in 2018 or the number of people charged. And, for her part, the Counsellor, apart from subjective data, to which I will then refer if I have time, gave her a series of objective, quite obvious, data on police effectiveness and efficiency; some have mentioned it, you have acknowledged it today. He first mentioned the Department of Security's clear and determined commitment to investigation and intelligence – the two fundamental pillars in the Ertzaintza organization – for the prevention and prosecution of crimes, which is concrete in that one in four agents is dedicated to investigation, judicial police or intelligence functions. He also mentioned the rate of resolution of strategic crimes, considered so by all European police, by the social alarm they generate. And in particular, he told us that as far as 2019 goes, this year, in these 11 months, 100% of the murders or murders committed have been solved, a total of nine in this community. And the rate of resolution of the most serious sexual assaults has been 94%. And finally, he told us that we are the community of the whole state that practices the most urgent steps, in which more rapid trials are held, seven points above the state average, thanks to police effort and efficiency. Therefore, the picture does not seem as negative and chaotic as you tried to present it, perhaps too influenced by some union vision. Having said that, you focus today's motion, your proposals to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Ertzaintza, on computer applications and on a supposed lack of training that needs to be addressed. With regard to what he calls the computer applications – more specifically, the telematic transmission of police certificates and their incorporation into the electronic judicial file – it is true that this request appears in the memory of the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country of 2018, as he mentioned, and was also verbally raised in the appearance that took place a few weeks ago in this commission. That is, in a reasonable and prudent manner. Also last Monday, in the speech of taking office of the new president of the Provincial Court of Bizkaia, Mrs Goenaga stressed the need to improve the processing of the proceedings, in particular, the projects of improvement of the judicial file, in order to achieve a true electronic or digital file, that allows us to definitely end the role. Bestalde, Ruiz de Arbulo jaunak esan zuenez, ez da hain zail azkarragoa den aplikazia informika bat, arinagoa dena, modernagoa dena, eta henerako euskal administrationzioekin interkonektatuta dagoena. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo also said that it is a computer application that is very simple and cheap; what happens is that it doesn't give them the desire to run an electronic file. And he continued to state that the fault was not Mrs. San José, who was from his department, pointing to Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, because they, Justice, have the means prepared to receive this kind of information. And all that, and said this, you stayed wider than long. As to the telematically entering the Security Department and the Edge Systems, we are prepared to migrate the informal systems of the Justice Administration, which must be the case, in order to be telematically included later in the computer system of the Justice Administration. And, in fact, as you said today, here, in this very place you have acknowledged it, and in your motion you implicitly acknowledge it, by urging the two departments: the Department of Security and the Department of Labour and Justice. And he also seems to be aware of the technical difficulties of this process; it is no longer so simple, nor so cheap, nor so fast, when he proposes that it be carried out over the course of 2020, you who like the deadlines. However, as Mr Prieto said, our amendment reflects... It is in line with the current situation on this subject and also with the reality of what the judiciary is demanding of us. We therefore logically support the amendment tabled here, the first point of the amendment tabled with the Basque Socialists. With regard to the request for more and better training, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said that he used two sources: that of the trade union representatives – then he said that it was the majority union of the Ertzaintza, which calls for the improvement and expansion of the training of the agents – and the "world of justice"; more specifically, the Prosecutor's Office of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. And he also concluded that this is not a new problem, which has not emerged in the last few weeks, which has been turning it around for a long time. As Mrs. Department told you, during the last years, while you've been wandering around, 472 agents have been trained in 13 specialization clinics, around 300 hours of criminal investigation, and the research teams have been completed. In this area of training, it should be borne in mind that it is the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, as a training centre for public security in Euskadi, to which it is responsible, among other functions, to organize and develop training for the specialization and continuous training of members of the police. And, as you know, within the academy, the governing council is the one who annually approves such an organization of training. And I am not going to influence the composition; simply – I imagine you know it – I want to say that in this governing council there are two representatives of the most representative unions of Ertzaintza. And it was at the meeting of December 13, 2018 where the last plan, the memory of 2018 and the last plan of activities of the academy for 2019 were unanimously approved, including "Banthe dicho adindo por unimidad nas representantes de los dos sindicatos con mayor representatividad de la borderation, inclus en el qued wild sus fuentes." There was a plan of training, with 243 courses, for almost 11,000 squares offered, 13 for updates and improvements, for the edgelines and for the 7000 squares. Therefore, as you can see, there is an extensive and complete formation, which, logically, can be expanded and improved. In this sense, it is curious, at least, that the union on which Mr Ruiz de Arbulo bases the sources, affirms in the media that the formation is paralysed and abandoned, and, where they have representation and can have room to influence and change things, if they deem it necessary, in the governing council of the academy, simply limit themselves to approving unanimously the Annual Training Plan presented, without making any serious proposal. This attitude reminds us of something that we usually see in this Parliament, similar, for example, to the attitude of the People's Party. Today it calls for more training, more computer applications; but then, where can it change things and get what it asks for, in budgets, what initiatives have they presented in relation to the Department of Safety? The last budgets agreed with you were those of 2018, if I remember correctly. Here, in 2018, its security priorities to improve efficiency and efficiency in Ertzaintza were, in particular, two: 500,000 euros for the renovation of the Miñones mobile park and 24,000 euros for an agreement with the association STOP Accidents. The Community's general budgets for 2020 are now being processed. I would like to know what contributions the People's Party has made to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Ertzaintza. I'm very interested in you telling me, Mr. Arbulo. You said that what's not... that there is not enough human means to care for citizens. And I share it. And I share it, because the Ertzaintza, the Security Board, agreed that there must be 8,000 agents, and it was the attitude of the Spanish Government led by the People's Party – I know that Mrs. Nerea Llanos knows it very well; she does so with her head – which delayed, with her resources, promotions 24, 25 and 26, and the generational renewal of this body. So, it's okay for you to recognize that there are few agents, but look where the thing is. And Mr Ruiz de Arbulo also referred to the specific training of research teams. And on this issue, he alluded to the fact that the source used was what the "world of justice" said, in particular the chief prosecutor of the High Court of Justice, who appeared, as he said, in the Labour and Justice Commission a few weeks ago, in order to present the fiscal report for the 2018 financial year. I've been at that appearance, and I think it's done here. –or did – a partial and partisan interpretation of what the chief prosecutor said. And understand me well, Mr Arbulo, it's not that what the Chief Prosecutor's statement is partisan, it's that the interpretation you give him is partial and partisan. Finally, I say to you, as Mr Prieto also said to you, that from the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, precisely for training both in the field of criminal investigation and what is the cross-sectional training in access courses, the world of justice, the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, to give specific training to the agents. And with regard to the amendment of the whole of Elkarrekin We can therefore, by lowering the concept of human security to land, have tabled an amendment, in which, in its first point, the two departments, Security and Labour and Justice, are urged, when what they propose in their amendment, in relation to the formation of the Ertzaintza and the annual criminal reports, is the exclusive competence of the Department of Security. And with regard to training, well, as you know and I imagine that all parliamentarians, the memory of 2018 is public, is on the website of the academy, and they will have been able to see what are the courses organized and taught by the academy and to whom they are directed. That is why we are shocked by the approach it makes in its amendment and also by the emphasis on certain types of crime which are not, precisely, the most numerous or those considered strategic at European police level. They are being investigated... and it has to be said, that all known criminal acts are being investigated, Mrs. García, and all agents passing through the academy are being trained in this regard. Finally, it refers to the Criminal Memory We will therefore also vote against your amendment, and we will support the one tabled by the Nationalist Group together with the Socialist Group. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u49	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. I must confess to my previous inspection that I took with great curiosity the interpelration of Ruiz de Arbulus. As he accused him, the edge does not operate efficiently, and he threw out two concepts: not efficacy, not efficacy. And it seemed to me that they were fat words, really hard accusations, and that, in a way, there was also some kind of catastrophism. When he said that to reason this, he sometimes said that the data is intelligible, he preferred to place an opinion on the table, and it is the opinion of the unions. And, well, I have to say before that I'd rather make these interpretations in the data than establish them in the minds of the unions. He said, too, that there was a very little form of inquiry to be found on the edge, and I shall say, a little out of place for me, a disturbing one, which seemed to me to be. He said it wasn't a shooting practice, and I don't really see any connection between the connections that might be connected with the police and the investigation. I don't know that he, Ruiz de Arbulo, must be the elite shooter who thinks he must be to make an effective investigation. In any case, he did not mention it today, perhaps the slippery argument which he now found in it. He came in Beltrán de Heredia, told him in reply that he would give him some facts, but always partial data; for he mentioned how many charges he had received, but he did not say how much they had been examined or explained. Except for some, which Mr. Zerllas has mentioned, except for the murders, very precise facts, but no data from the rest, because they do not exist. And that's a problem. And since the data is not so, or the data are not properly united, or are uncertain, it is based on an opinion on its position, and is an opinion on the Socimeter. And as the Solicitor says that the citizen appreciates the edge and appreciates the department very well, so it's all settled, even this question of inquiry. So we have a debate on the effectiveness of the Ertzaintza investigation, and for that, as I say, Mr Arbulo brings us an opinion, that of the unions, according to which it is not well investigated. And Mrs Beltrán de Heredia brings us an opinion, which is that of citizenship, brought through the survey or sociological work that the Sociometer does, by which she says that everything is fantastic and that everything is well covered. And I think, frankly, that there is no way to establish a serious debate, an objective debate – let's say – to address two problems: that of the black figure, that is, how many crimes are reported and how many end up not being pursued, and the traceability, that is, where is the leak, where is the clue to the crime or the criminal: in the police investigation?, in the investigative work that is done in the courts?, in the Prosecutor's Office?, or in the oral trial at the courthouse? In other words, there is a problem that I have been reporting for years, which is the poor quality of the crime data made public by the department. Because, in short, I think that the department often prefers us to make these speeches and debates about opinions or judgments of values or judgments of intentions, rather than objective, reliable data, rather than on a good overall diagnosis of crimes, their circumstances and their repression, and, from there, try to draw recommendations, try to draw conclusions about what we need to improve, what resources we have and what it takes to improve or better use ourselves to lower that crime rate. I can see a chronic problem about the data; we have but few facts, and in the answer of the interpelration the chief physician did not tell us what data or what kind of comparison tools or methodology are used to extract such diagnostics. I worry about him because he has them, and he said that there are data like this that they work on data. They have, therefore, data of this kind; but, as it seems, they do not convey to us, and in this awful mass of transparency, we must, as a kind of phalanx, make our speech here blind, blind, blind. Therefore, a couple of weeks ago, Mr. Marrilla has also mentioned that we requested a report at the Security Committee to improve our statistics, and when it is brought to light, I hope we can make a more suitable discussion, and that we shall make our decisions more precise and more accurate. "Y mientras mane para mejorar la statesdística delincuencial, puesmormos el debare ess condiciones." Ruiz de Arbulo, "everything goes wrong in the investigation of crimes", Beltran de Heredia – and now assumed, in a way, by the PNV and PSOE – "everything goes well". And let's then see what measures are being proposed to deal with this situation – let's say – of divergence in analysis. Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo said that the whole problem of inefficiency in the investigation would be solved with the digital signature, with computer applications and with the electronic file, so that the attestations would immediately go to Justice; so that paper could be saved, and I think it is right, and I hope that this will be done. But it seems to me in some way also, Mr Arbulo, that there are few coffers for such a journey, or for such an accusation or such a complaint that you made. By the way, today you have brought the problem that there is no one in the police stations who wants to lodge a complaint, but in your proposals, in the operative part, you did not bring any initiative to resolve this, unless you think it is sufficient to improve the bureaucracy so that these queues and citizens can also have better access to lodge a complaint. In any case, the PNV is self-imposed on a deadline for doing so; in their amendment they move it, they say they are going to do so by 2020. But what happens is that it does not represent any new compromise either, because it is something that Mrs Beltrán de Heredia also told us in the debate on the inquiry. Specifically, he said: "In relation to the telematic inclusion of police attestations on the digital platform JustiziaBat, in the Ertzaintza we are prepared and waiting for the prior migration of the computer systems from the Administration of Justice to the Batera platform". I don't understand very well whether it's from the Batera platform from where you have to look for connectivity with JustiziaBat, or it's backwards, from JustiziaBat that you have to work on connectivity with the Batera platform. But there's something I'm going to give Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo's reason for, and this is, at least, weird. And I'm going to explain myself: I looked at something to understand why there are two computer platforms, JustiziaBat and Batera, and I got a statement from a head of EJIE, of the Information Society of the Basque Government, that last year, in mid-2018, said that the Batera platform, which was the most modern, integration, connectivity, versatility, was going to offer a service to the entire Basque public administration. Well, it looks like the whole Basque public administration doesn't, because Batera doesn't move to the Justice Administration. Or otherwise, JustiziaBat does not move to the Department of Security, in this case. And it's a strange thing, as I say, because both platforms have been developed by the same company, which is Ibermatic. And I have recorded some written questions to know why the same private company that has been subcontracted by the public service, by the public company, by the public society that is EJIE for IT issues why they make two platforms, two software programs, which are incompatible with each other. And now they're telling us that the process of compatibility is very complicated, it's very expensive, it's technically very difficult; I don't know, but what I'm asking is why two platforms. Why two platforms and why incompatible? On the issue of improving training, even assuming that the counsellor said that there was room for improvement, she might expect a little more commitment from the PNV and the PSE, a little less self-completion, a little more self-requirement, and thought that they would go a little further there than the mere "continue implementing training programmes", which already exists. In any case, we are going to abstain from all the initiatives you bring, because: first, the migration between the system proposed to us by Beltran de Heredia is going to take place. "We hope that it will be done and we will assess how it has been done"; secondly, we will have to analyse the training programmes that you say "will continue to be implemented"; and I believe that the novelty will be the report on the criminal data that we request from the Department of Security, and that, when they bring it to us and read it carefully, we hope that they will bring some light to this debate. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In answer, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am nothing catastrophic. On the contrary. I have started the intervention by saying that we have a fantastic Police, who are great professionals, and what needs to be done is to help them perform their duties better. You, too, find it positive that seven out of every ten offences reported to the Ertzaintza remain in the police stations, because they are not resolved, because the perpetrators are not identified, because this investigation cannot be carried out... It doesn't seem like a good thing to me. I believe that this is a situation in which there is a great improvement. And for that, we have simply put two questions on the table. Not what the majority Ertzaintza union says, which I quoted the other day, precisely because that day in the press spoke of the need to improve the training of the agents, but because all the union representatives of the Ertzaintza say so. And it is said by the agents themselves, who demand and demand an improvement in training. I am not saying that they are not trained; I simply say that they need an improvement in training: in basic, in general of all and in specific. Because, as the counselor rightly says, she is the one who knows most about this issue of all of us here, who for that reason has been running the department for a long time, if one in four agents has received training in criminal investigation – of those who are engaged in research, of those who are involved in intelligence and of those who are involved in research – if one in four has received research because there are three in four who have not received that information..., sorry, that training. Therefore, I understand that it will have to be improved, it will have to be improved. That is to improve efficiency and effectiveness. And it has nothing to do with proposing budget economic measures, because effectiveness and efficiency is to do... with the same number of people and the same money, improve the goals. And even with fewer people and less money, improve the goals that are being pursued. If it is that – as I told the counselor the other day – the objective that is being pursued is that. Or it is simply improving statistics to give a public image. That is the reality of our police stations. We have to give them better instruments. And you say that... Mr Prieto said and Mr Zorrilla said that they were basically in agreement with what we proposed in our proposal. But I do not agree with what you propose. I call for the electronic file to be launched in 2020. I would ask the Commissioner for Security, the Minister for Labour and Justice and the Minister for Public Governance. I said it in this rostrum. I'm asking the three of you, so you don't pass the ball from one to the other. And you say that "continue to take steps", by 2020, that continue to take steps. Look, the first time I heard about the electronic file in Justice was in the last century. In the law schools, computers were placed on which the procedures could be seen. That thing started twenty years ago. Today, at the speed at which the Basque Government is taking steps, as you say, Mr Zorrilla and Mr Prieto, on your initiative, this electronic file in Justice is still not working at 100%. It has improved a lot, but it has also taken almost 30 years for that improvement. What we are asking today, in the initiative, is for it to be done by 2020. That it costs a lot of money? I don't think it's much money. That it costs a lot of money? Give it to you in the budgets, who know and know perfectly well what the specific item is, where the matter is failing... Because if they've been doing it for years, and they haven't done it yet, it's something that's failing. Or, as Mr Arzuaga suggests, it is because here there are other interests of private companies, which have been asked to design a computer system, which is not the most optimal, to continue investing for years and years in that computer system. Those are the issues that we have brought here. If it's catastrophic that seven out of ten complaints stay in a drawer because Ertzaintza has no means and no chance of solving them, I'll be catastrophic. But I think it is simply a request that the professional task of the great professionals who are the agents of Ertzaintza be improved. And for that, they need means and training, among many other things. And that's just what we came here to ask for today. You do not want it, and therefore it seems that you are going to vote against the proposal we have made to you. But, well, that's what parliaments are for, so that some can propose one thing, and others can vote in favour or vote against. I have already explained to you why I will vote against yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Together, the Poedemus, Mrs. García must not speak. Basque Socialists? He mustn't speak. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, regarding EH Bildu, Mr Arzuaga told us that the two important issues in this area are the black figure and traceability. And he was talking about the proposed measures. I would like to know what the measures proposed by EH Bildu are, because we have not yet known them. In successive debates in this House on Ertzaintza, we have seen its approach and attitude. We already know – because he has also stated this – that public security policies are not within his priorities, and, budgetly, that this is where we can work on – let's say – bringing out that black figure, we have also seen, year by year, his approaches and, within them, they are not even the training of the agents – because they have proposed reductions of more than 40% of the budget of the academy, which I believe is much worse than continuing to give the best possible training, which is what we propose – nor to equip the Ertzaintza with material means to deal with criminal behaviors and to bring out this black figure, if the black figure is to come out. Regarding Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, well, "catatrophyist", I believe that he himself with his expressions and some of them I have mentioned or repeated myself before in my first intervention, is defined. He says seven out of ten complaints stay in a drawer. Here, I... what I do, given the rigour you've had in some other things, I'm not going to take it as a word of law. What is true is that criminal acts must not only be measured in quantity, but also what has a qualitative impact on society. It is not the same as a theft, with what is supposed to be a theft, which must also be acknowledged, that a murder, nor the criminal response is the same and, therefore, neither is the police. I believe that the data have been made available to you; I have repeated them to you today too, and they affect what the adviser said to you regarding the rate of resolution of strategic crimes, and I believe that the data, although good, should be used as a stimulus to further improve. He said, well, he hasn't answered the... to the question I was asking you about the 2020 budgets. It has re-emphasized that it is not a matter of money, but training and the media, what are they?: for training and the means, the same as the €500,000 for the renovation of the mobile park of Miñones, money is needed; it is necessary to be included in the budget. I asked him what proposals they had put forward for this next budget, in relation to improving the effectiveness and efficiency of Ertzaintza, which is his objective with this proposal, with this motion. Well, you didn't tell me. I have bothered to look a little bit, although it is the matter of another plenary or committee to be held in the near future, but I was curious, curious. And I have drawn much attention to the fact that the People's Group is proposing to reduce, including Department of Safety computer applications, items of Department of Safety computer applications in order to make a stock exchange, which is supposed to resolve the improvement of the effectiveness and efficiency of Ertzaintza in combating crime. And this bag consists of 2,150,000 euros to transfer to Arkaute that amount, so that the students of the 28th promotion are paid the expenses that the transport generates. Is that going to improve training? Is that going to improve computer applications? Do you honestly believe that your proposals are in line with improving efficiency and effectiveness? Here, in word, yes; but, when we have to work and make concrete and serious proposals, we see it, we see it not. He also said that three... that if one in four agents is dedicated to criminal investigation and intelligence, that means three out of four have not received that training. You said it, you can... I imagine it will be possible to review it in the session log. Man, I think the adviser has already told you: training in criminal investigation is cross-cutting, and it has been received by all agents since the start of the basic course. Another thing is specialization. Therefore, that syllogism that you do, those syllogisms that you do, that are very curious, that is, as one out of four is dedicated to research, the others have no idea; three out of four have no idea of research. Like he said, "There should be more training, and so, if there is more training, the rate of crimes solved will be lowered or raised." Well, they're syllogisms that aren't accurate either. In fact, in research, training is important, it is one of those that has, but it also has a lot of weight the quality of research, citizen participation, citizen collaboration and sometimes even luck too. And I end up with one thing that said if I had time I'd leave it for the end, and I've left it. In the plenary on 31 October, on the occasion of a GNP presented by her parliamentary group, concerning the student of the 28th promotion, her colleague, Mrs Llanos, said: "As they point out from trade union bodies – we see that trade union bodies make a lot of calls to them – and we share, the image of Ertzaintza is directly linked to the perception that Basque society has of the crime and efficiency with which our Police confronts it". Well, look, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, recently, and the counselor told you just two weeks ago, the data from the Basque Sociometer has been published. And what do those data say? What is the perception that Basque society has of the crime and efficiency with which our police confront it? Well, even if I repeat it, I think it's important. When asked what three main problems or concerns they have in their daily lives, only 4% of citizens – with all due respect – point out that citizen insecurity is a problem that affects them in particular. The general perception of crime and public insecurity has remained stable since 2012, at around 10%, very far from 2007 – which seems to have gone very far, 2007 – when it was the main problem for the 58% of the Basque population, even above employment; or in 2010, with 22%, i.e. more than twice as much as at present. And finally, I am finishing, Madam President, when citizens are asked about the functioning of the public services of Euskadi, after the services of health and public education, the Ertzaintza appears, on which three out of four people say that it works well or very well. And this data should not be an element for relaxing, Mr Arzuaga, nor for complacency, but rather, on the contrary, an acquiescence for further improvement. Therefore, the assessment and perception of our society does not correspond to the perception and appreciation of the People's Group. Perhaps it can be a further demonstration of their social disconnection in Euskadi. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u55	Yes, very briefly, because Mr Zorrilla has reproached me for my attitude and what my approaches are. And, indeed, it brought the question of the Sociometer and what is the majority opinion of the citizenry, brought by a statistical tool such as the Sociometer, about the perception of security that the citizenry has. Well, good for the department, good for the Ertzaintza. Bad for the Department of Employment, bad for the Department of Housing, for the Department of Health, who appear unscrupulously beaten by this Sociometer, who go very badly standing. And perhaps what he would tell us is, precisely, that his Government should do what it is to distribute resources from one department to another, to balance a little bit what data one or the other has, because I imagine that governing are not stagnant departments, in which Security is fantastic and there are other departments that, on the part of citizens, do not have so much adherence. And, also, it is a matter that has to do with the budget, because, if we look at the Sociometer, the perception of citizenship about how resources should be distributed, Security appears in the number 10 of 13 items, with which, it has nine departments or services ahead, which citizens consider to be priority to invest resources, rather than invest them in Security. And that's what the Sociometer says and, well, you can argue a lot. In any case, it tells me that my attitude, my approaches, my preferences, etc., and, precisely, if anything I want to run away from is from that debate. And that is precisely why I brought to the Security Commission two weeks ago a report from the department, asking academics – to be impartial, independent – to deal with this crime issue, to bring us good data, to bring us good diagnoses, and to be able to deal effectively with the problem of the black figure, that is, how many crimes are reported and how many are not investigated, and the problem of traceability, that is, the remaining leak between the Department of Security, the Prosecutor's Office and Justice. And precisely because I want to run away from a subjective debate based on priorities, on preferences, on tastes, on unshakable accessions to Ertzaintza, and as I want to run away from it, that is why I value this report, because it is also the first time that the five groups in this House have a unanimous decision on security. Step by step, we are going to see; we leave many hairs in the catera in that debate, we will leave more in the future. But, in any case, everything is for improving data, for improving criminal statistics in this country and for adopting the necessary resources, unique and exclusively, on the basis of them, and not on other issues of a subjective or political nature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Ruiz de Arboulo Cerio's motion. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 37; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u57	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 37; Abstations 25.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u58	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we can vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 37; rivals, 8; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u59	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Glovo, Delivero, UberEatata..." ) concerning the precautions to be taken against the prerogative and the injurious influences of the work which they create and promote. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Estarrona, the representative of the EHG, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u60	Thank you, Madam of the Parliament, and good noon to all. Precity is not a trick used by some of evil enterprises to make the profit of profit as much as possible from the profit of the profit of the profit, but a pattern that is physically and permanently grafted in the trade... ,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u62	...a characteristic characteristic of the capitalist system. The example of equity has, moreover, its perfect victim: the most vulnerable collective and among them the young ones too. They have been obliged to enter into a stocked and worn-out economy crisis, and, whatever generation may be the best academicised generation, they accept temporary contracts, practice, and formation, which offer but few wages. After all, they're the scholarships that the market needs to last. They're not the only victims. Even the emigrating persons and long-continued labourers form this abject collective, together with the young. Eta have gertatzen aria da digitalizatioren aroan. Because we live in the age of digitization; there is no doubt that the paradigm shift in the various spheres of life, in this sense, is indisputable. And, as a result of that reality, we have new models of labour relations. In particular, as far as this issue is concerned, we are engaged in a gradual process of digitisation of labour subcontracting. These new business models, known in a kind or entrepreneurial language, as a new digital economy or collaborative economy, have generated new realities, new models of labour relations, in many cases precarising the conditions and situation of workers to the extreme, always for the benefit of business profits. This is the basis of the distribution companies in urban areas of the delivery riders sector These companies use and organize themselves via the Internet, through an app They distribute by bicycle, in most cases; but also, on foot, by motorcycle, by car or even by public transport, and they have no sick leave, which does not correspond to them; they have no right to unemployment, without any trade union right. Under these conditions, these types of companies can have in every city all the messengers and messengers they want, in a cheap way and without being responsible for absolutely nothing. Well, of one thing, that's to enter a lot of money for every delivery these riders make. Marx explained that the ruling classes put the means of production, and the workers, as we have nothing, are forced to sell our labor force. And this is how the exploitation of people appears, leaving the pattern with the surplus value that is generated. Companies like Glovo give another twist to exploitation, and if the worker put his means?And there goes those workers with that distinctive backpack for which they have paid 60 euros, in their own means of transport, with an app "Y esto, en en un país digno, no posses permitirlo." No podemos resignarnos y caer en el "es lo que hay." We can't be in a worthy country on the 21st. accept this form of slavery. In order to be worthy of life, we must have worthy conditions of employment and employment, and in this respect institution and administration have something to do. And so far there has been little of any effect here, in Aran, in Biscaia, and in Gipuzia, and this is more especially the action of the present day. It is at least the first step in the institution of Europe, and the first step they made in other countries and cities of Europe, which have been afterwards regulated by the representatives, or forbidden by inclusus. And the first step we make in the institution is to be given by a large consent, which is important, and I would like to remark, that this agreement, in the end, makes the subject manifest to us the present, and that the matter is not according to every political position or position in the left or centre, or to the right, but rests in common, this vast arrangement and position with this company. In this sense, I shall take advantage of this little interval to thank Mr. Hernandez and Mr. Aardez, and in a particular manner, Mrs. Sánchez, there is no need to say for their commitments and dispositions which have been offered this week. I was saying that this vast agreement, as a position with these companies, is important in a wide way because we are ultimately speaking of the basic rights of people and workers. And public administrations and institutions, as has been said, cannot be admitted, and we must denounce these corporations, which, in the name of free market and competitive exercise, are opposed to fundamental rights. And this is the first point of the agreement that we make, where it is taken expressly and literally: "The law indicates its opposition to Glovo, to Delivero, and to corporations like Uber." That's what you get at the first point. And we believe that this is of the most important value, because in this way it is received, that these companies are organized by precociseing the workers, by means of fraud, which the business needs of the work world are directed to avoid. In the second place, it is required that he should follow the inspection, as he has hitherto done, with inspections, and, it is true, that in this sense and in this respect he has taken steps. And, indeed, we ask that the Department of Works and Justice should be able to trace the state of false autonomists created in Aran, Biscay, and Gipuz; and that, besides the fact that, in addition to this, it may be remembered, the protocols and compacts which exist between the inspections and the foru-gas, to increase their efficiency and to answer for new reality in the circle of works created by digitalization and evangelization. In the fourth place, we speak of Social Security and Taxes. We know that many vehicles have appeared in the streets of Bilbo, with the licenses known to as VTC during the past few weeks, and, well, the Deputies themselves, the Representative of the Transport, said he knew that they would not pay tax duties, even though they could not avoid it. And, therefore, we believe that at least one must follow and take measures. And the final agreement is that a demand, which we make to the Council of Work Relations, is that this Parliament may at last demand study and report in its own law, and is required to do so in this respect. And as the final point, because we ask the Tourism, the trade, and the Kontsamo Department, by means of this point, to continue the campaigns around the responsible consumption, but we've put another job to the department today, especially because we're asking him to design a campaign addressed to the young people, delivery. We see more and more riders But, really, these companies and the riders The answer to this question is quite simple: they are private investment funds, something that is noted. It is a strategy, in essence, of great capital, to destroy the minimum guarantees of the workers. These companies, with these kinds of actions, aim to destroy the figure of the worker on behalf of others, to replace it with self-employed ones under their control, and gradually extend it to all sectors of the economy gradually. That is why we believe that it is time to take action, make proposals and give answers; because, with the direct consequences that the Uberization of the economy brings and that it directly affects us all, we are already going a little late. Awareness and denunciation from the collectives, from the social movements, the institutions, as we are doing here today, is essential; but, at the same time, we must take measures as they have done elsewhere in Europe. Unfortunately, everything has to be said, we do not have all the powers to deal with this increasingly present reality in our country. It's one of the issues I was picking up. EH Bildu in his original initiative, the issue of Social Security, because we always depend also on the Labour Inspectorate actions that depend on the Government of the State; therefore, we do not have all the competences, but we can do a lot from our institutions and from our governments, and, to date, it is only being done, as I said, from the Labour Inspectorate, and it is an issue that I have already put into value and that I believe it is appropriate and fair to put into value, that it is not little, but it is not all. Therefore, today we are taking a step, an important step, manifesting the opposition of Basque society to these types of companies, but we must continue to make decisions, establishing measures, making use of the tools that we have at our disposal; because, in short, what needs to be done is to pinch the globe before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u64	Well, first of all, we are glad from our... from our coalition, because we are going to approve the negotiated initiative; because, indeed, it is important to address this reality, which is a worrying reality, which Mr Estarrona has explained to us, which brings the original initiative, and which, of course, our group is concerned about and believes that the Basque institutions have to start working to put an end to this model and to prevent this model from being established in our society. In our view, we are faced with a deplorable, brutally exploitative business model, a perverse model and an even more fraudulent model, which should not have a place in any society in the world and which the Basque institutions, therefore, in our view, should strive to eradicate from Euskadi. This is a fraudulent model used by these companies, either by using the new technologies as allies or by using them for the wild exploitation of workers; that is their specific objective. In our case, the trap used by these companies to bypass and avoid the rights of the workers is done by forcing them to become self-employed and establishing a commercial contract with the company if they want to work. In this way, workers cannot have the protection and rights they may have on the basis of the Staff Regulations or the relevant collective agreements. And yet we all know that they are not real self-employed, because their activity and relationship with the company is that of a wage-earner. In my opinion, we should not even talk about "false self-employed", because it is not just a matter of working for a single company; the relationship is purely that of a company-worker in the characteristics of management, organization of work, days, sanctioning regime, obligations, disguised, that is, through euphemisms. However, workers, on the contrary, do not have all kinds of rights, starting with the right to collective bargaining, the right to strike, freedom of association, fundamental rights and, of course, the right to real wages, low work, calendar, working hours, permits, holidays or any other kind of labour law... Beneficiary companies, as has already been said, transfer production costs to workers, but do not transfer profits either in the form of wages or in the form of working conditions. They are genuine digital speculators; they are pure speculation about the labour force, using digital networks for this purpose, and they are, moreover, a fraud against society as a whole; they are a fraud against the State, because they are a fraud against Social Security, a multimillionaire fraud against Social Security. Therefore, they are a fraud against the workers and they are a fraud against society as a whole. It is true that practice is not entirely new. In the case of Euskadi, similar formulas have been used for years in some sectors quite widely, for example in the transport sector. But, although the business method used is not entirely new, we think that we are, at the moment, facing a genuine political operation, a political and ideological operation, which aims to use some sectors and also young people as a true test bank of the coming capitalism. Not only in the case of Euskadi, but also in the case of Euskadi, we are being a testing bank of the wild nut turn that some neoliberal laboratories have been developing and theoreticalizing for years and that is already being implemented. Yesterday, on the Committee on Employment, we had a presentation by a professor from the University of the Basque Country on this issue. I spoke, in my intervention, of the wet dream of the capitalists. And that's right. The wet dream of the wildest capitalists is already here, through this model. This model is a test bank to address the true framework of labor relations desired and dreamed by these capitalists. That framework of labour relations in which labour relations do not exist, because the existence of the working class is not recognized. The operation aims to assume that there are no workers and entrepreneurs in these companies. And this is not true. Workers still exist. For them, there are individuals who establish relations between equals. And this is not true. It's just the way to try to end the rights of the workers. It is the dream of the capitalist's whole life and of the most brutal economic liberalism: It has gone from the search for the individualization of labour relations, in order to put an end to the force of the working class in defending its rights, to directly seeking to implement a model without labour relations and without any rights, therefore, for the workers. We therefore believe that this is indeed a matter of substance. We are not addressing a specific issue that some companies in our autonomous community are simply engaging in illegalities in order not to respect the rights of workers. We are talking about a real model, which is being implemented in some specific sectors, and it is likely to develop in other sectors later on. As a matter of fact, he's already doing it. Yesterday, from the appearance, we were left with a very important thing. It was said, "Inspection, inspection, inspection." In my opinion, the professor of the University had an excellent intervention, very enlightening for all groups – and this was also expressed by all groups in the House – and ended her intervention by telling us: "Inspection, inspection, inspection". We have in the Basque public administration, we have in Euskadi, a fundamental tool to address this issue. A fundamental tool to eradicate this type of business, this type of practice, in Euskadi, and is the Labour Inspectorate. That is why we also come here a long time saying that we have an Inspection that is not enough for the work reality that we have in our country. We believe that this issue is very important. Yesterday, too, it was understood that we lack a real map of the exploitation of labour in Euskadi. And one of the points taken up by the initiative, the one referred to in the Council for Labour Relations, goes that way, and we think it is fundamental. If we make the map of labour exploitation in Euskadi we will realize that, in fact, we do not have enough Labour Inspectorate, but we do have a Labour Inspectorate, and we have to act. We are glad that an agreement has been reached, that things are going to be done and, above all, that the debate is in a place like this, because on the streets it was already there; on the streets, the collectives have already organized themselves against this model of exploitation; workers of these companies have been organizing themselves for a long time, with a multitude of difficulties, logically, for what has already been said, because of the difficulties they have to organize themselves syndicately in these types of companies. But they're already organizing. Workers are not going to cease to be workers or to belong to a social class because some want to impose a model in which they want us to believe that they do not exist. And, therefore, the workers, faced with this, will also be organized, and will also fight against that model. But we here, in the institutions, and of course it seems fundamental to me, we have to do our part, we have to accompany the workers in their difficulties to organize, to end this wicked model, and we have to do everything in our hands, legislatively, in the different institutions and through the tools such as the Labour Inspectorate, to end this fraudulent, perverse model and to eradicate it from our autonomous community. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u66	Yes, thank you, President. Again, we discussed precarious work today. But now, with regard to the measures that need to be taken in the face of job insecurity and the negative repercussions and consumption habits created and promoted by the Uberized economy. And yesterday, as Mr Hernández has already pointed out, we heard in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy the appearance of Mrs Andrea de Vicente, professor of the Faculty of Labour Relations and Social Work of the UPV, and she explained to us the results achieved in her doctoral thesis on the subject. It is clear that, in recent years, new working relationships have been generated, which are very different from those so far known, derived from the new digital economy, which have created a precarious working conditions, being the most vulnerable and fundamentally affected collective (young people, immigrants and long-term unemployed). In this situation are the distribution companies in urban areas of the sector delivery riders On 19 September 2018, the fourth section of the Social Division of the Madrid High Court of Justice issued a fundamental judgment in this matter, rejecting the appeal lodged against the judgment of the Madrid Social Court of 3 September 2018 and dismissing a claim brought against Glovo, in which it was requested to be regarded as a self-employed person an economically dependent false self-employed person, who maintained the worker with that undertaking. That judgment represents a point and an end to the contradictory judgments on the work model of the distribution platforms, since this judgment unifies doctrine in that instance. The judgment declares dismissal inadmissible, and declares the obligation of readmission and its consideration as an employed person, and must have an ordinary contract. This dismissal also occurred after an accident at work suffered with his motorcycle while the worker was making a distribution. I am going to go in a little bit to disprove this sentence, because it is very explanatory to the situation we are discussing today in this plenary: The applicant had a contract for the provision of services, for the performance of errands, orders and micro-tasks, as a self-employed worker. He was an economically dependent self-employed worker, as he had stated that 75% of his income came from Glovo. These messages were managed through an app He put his cell phone in self-assignment mode, and received orders. He received an economical amount per order, as well as an amount per km and waiting time. He received about 2.50 euros per order, receiving the company's subscription for a fortnightly period, and only charged for the service if the customer was satisfied. He could only interrupt his activity for 18 working days a year, consensusing both sides on the period of enjoyment. And while performing the service, it was permanently located, via a GPS geolocationr, where the kilometers performed in the service were recorded. The judgement concluded that there was agility and dependence and that the activity was remunerated and that it should be regarded as a self-employed person, and not economically dependent, as called by the Statute of Self-Employment Act. This is an example of this new activity. This judgment points to the need for a specific regulatory framework for this new activity, which is currently not in place. This situation has caused the control of this activity to fall primarily on the Labour Inspectorate and the social judges, qualifying a very flexible and very different activity to those so far known and determining the legal status that must be applicable to them. This activity has already been regulated in other countries, such as France, and in Italy recently. In Spain, we do not yet have this regulation, which can put an end to the social imbalances that exist at the moment, and which limits the power given to this type of transnational corporation. We are faced with a digitisation of labour subcontracting, which leaves out of the scope of employment the staff concerned, to whom the Workers' Statute does not apply, nor is contributions made as employed persons in social security. To date, there have been judgments, in a balanced amount, both in favour of being considered self-employed and in favour of being considered self-employed. Although, now, judgments are beginning to be unified in favour of this latter consideration, as I have just indicated. At the national level, the Labour Inspectorate has issued a balance sheet for social security contributions of EUR 12 million. In Barcelona alone, these clearance records, worth EUR 3.8 million, were extended by 300 distributors. We are talking about important figures. And it also has a tax impact, to which must be added the perception, by the worker concerned, of a remuneration for the services much lower than that which other workers would receive in other sectors of activity. At the state level, a new regulation of this activity is planned. But as long as this happens, after forming a government in Spain, we can take measures here that can help to alleviate this situation. I would therefore like to thank the parliamentary groups that have signed this compromise amendment, because we have all made an effort to be able to agree and carry out this compromise amendment, which I believe is important. And, in this compromise amendment, the Basque Parliament first reflects the opposition to this situation that we are putting forward here today, whereby these workers are or are framed within the autonomous regime, when, in fact, they would have to be framed within... as a labour relationship of workers on behalf of others. But the Labour Inspectorate, as indicated above, of the Basque Government, is also urged to continue its cooperation with the State Labour Inspectorate in this area. Because, obviously, these are actions in the field of social security and coordination between them is important, because the unit of action of the Inspectorate is still being maintained, despite the transfer. And in that the Department of Labour and Justice has done very well, because we were the pioneers in initiating these collaborations between inspections, so that we could carry out anti-fraud campaigns, which are producing important results. And we have to keep doing it... That is why we include it in this compromise amendment. And, in addition, to continue to carry out such collaboration, these collaborative arrangements, which it maintains with the outside finances, and to adapt them, if necessary to adapt them in the future, in order to achieve the best results. On the other hand, the Labour Relations Council is also requested to carry out, on the basis of article 3(e) of its own legislation, Act No. 4/2012 of the Labour Relations Council, to provide detailed information on the state of the economy and to carry out and define the scope of this model in Euskadi, which may provide important data. And also, as awareness and knowledge of this situation is important, we felt that it was also important that a reference should also be made to urge the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs to continue to carry out campaigns on responsible consumption, but that a specific campaign should also be carried out for young people to know the negative aspects of this type of activity. And all this, moreover, is protected within what marks us and asks us for objective 12 of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, which refers to responsible production and consumption. I believe that these are important measures, which will also allow us to put our sand granites, from our Basque Autonomous Community, in order to move forward in the control of this new reality. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u67	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u68	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. The change. Change is one of the most widely used words in the workplace today. And this change has some specific factors that we cannot lose sight of. Digitization is one of them. The ability to process, store and communicate information. Another is automation, which, although it is before this moment, long before this moment, in conjunction with digitization, achieves an exponential increase in the tasks that can be automated. And the third, plataformization, the use of digital networks to coordinate transactions. And it is clear that this change has come to stay, because these factors are going to persist. The question is not the emergence of these factors, which are not good or bad in themselves – in fact, I think they are good, they are evolution – the question is how they apply. An algorithm is not bad in itself. It's a very powerful tool. Nothing more and nothing less. I know a company that is using an algorithm to coordinate the family reconciliation of its workers, and both the company and the workers are delighted. But, if the algorithm is used only for the purpose of increasing productivity, surely some working conditions are damaged. An app Yesterday, a companion – yesterday – commented on me as an app – it is obvious – the forms of work of health professionals. But in some cases, such as those we are dealing with today, an app is used. This is the question we are debating today: the image of change. "New realities have been created," Mr. Estarrona tells us in his justification. And I agree. Normally, before an initiative, before the description made in its justification, I tend to take dramatism from that approach; I tend to try to put that description to the right extent, even though I understand that my fair measure is a clearly subjective one. Today is not the case. Today is not the case... I sincerely believe that the reality that you are moving us is only the tip of the iceberg, as you have also pointed out. I think it affects many more sectors. I don't think so. We know it affects many more sectors. I'm not going to list them... And it has many impacts: quality of life, job security, economics, which have also been pointed out. Tools. When these factors, these changes, have a negative impact on working conditions, what tools do we have to deal with these inadequate changes? The essential, the essential basic tool, is the legal system. And how is the state's legal system in this matter? Well, if we drew a picture, we would have the world of labour regulations, the Workers' Statute, that world, the world of workers for others, and we would have the..., with which in some aspects of that regulation we are tremendously critical, and the world of self-employed or self-employed workers, whose rules are disseminated: civil law, commercial law, administrative law... It is true that the State made an attempt, in 2007, through the LETA, Law 20/2007, of the Statute of Self-Employment. We were critical of that regulation, but we also valued the attempt to give body to that world, right?, to the world of self-employed workers, and we understood that it was an effort that had to be made, but that the result in the end was not good; with which, it remains a challenge. It's still a challenge for the state... We firmly believe in the need to order the legal disorder of the State in this matter. The first need is the need to change the labour legislation of employed persons, to change the labour legislation; the second need is the need to create a coherent self-employed rule. We also believe that the need to influence European directives on this matter is important. Here, too, some comment has been made on this: the influence of transnational corporations. It will undoubtedly be one of the challenges of this new legislature in the State. We'll see; we'll see the engagement, the behavior... of all parliamentary groups in the General Courts. In any case, this is a challenge in the medium or long term, we could say, and in a competitive area that is not ours today, and I understand that you, Mr Estarrona, when registering your initiative, were pursuing closer results in both space and time. We, Mrs Sánchez and I, understood this, and we tabled an amendment to the whole in four points, which would sum them up as follows: responsible consumption, job framing, inspection, inspection, and I lack another inspection, were two inspections in our case. What does this sound like to me? Oh, yes, it sounds to me like the lady's appearance yesterday... of Dr. Andrea de Vicente; by the way, a thank you to the doctor and to you for requesting it. That appearance served, in addition to its interesting contents, I think it served to focus today's debate. Today, today's debate, the key, and it has already been pointed out, is inspection. Inspection in the face of false framing, inspection in the face of forced false self-employed and the practice of forcing workers to discharge themselves as self-employed, when they should be self-employed. From the very beginning, we saw that we were close to what you proposed and that the objective was essentially shared. If I would like to underline one detail, because I did not fully share some details of..., for example, which were also underlined in yesterday's appearance, mentioned – and to Mr Hernández this he was interested in – the technical tie in the judgments until today; the technical tie told us Mrs De Vicente. I understand that judicial unanimity disappears in judgments on individual cases whose origin has not been in the proceedings of the Inspection; that is, I think there is a pattern, I think there is no technical tie, I think there is a pattern, going by the hand of the Inspection, so to speak, that is, cases which originate in the proceedings of the Inspection, when you give that element and also you go in group, the workers are organized, in those cases, the sentences are clearly in a sense, in the sense of defending those working conditions, and I believe that this is why we have to... Of this question we have to learn and this could pose as a contribution, right?, because this makes me wonder how we can take advantage of certain opportunities and go beyond what we are doing today as well. History, history shows us that, although technology is presented in many cases as an intrinsic threat to the well-being of working people, historically this has not been the case. During periods of great technological change, innovative changes have been made in the organization of workers, strategic tactics, strategies and methods that were developed from there, precisely in response to that impact, to the impact of those technological changes. New technologies should be used for the benefit of good practices that are entering the work environment. There are already experiences in which workers who are precarious by abusive technologies have used them to connect, exchange information, demand fair conditions, expose their demands to public opinion, etc.; the same in the world of law: the right to work within the first Industrial Revolution was born because labour relations in the labour market were articulated under civil contracts, corporate or commercial contracts, and this caused a dysfunction, resulting from which the employment contract arose. Let us learn from history in this new scenario of technological changes, and let us seize the opportunity. Today we give a good impulse, as I see it, towards that opportunity, with the agreement we signed. I just want to thank Mr Estarrona for bringing the initiative, for putting forward yesterday's appearance and for his work in order to be able to agree widely, including the colors within his text that some of us liked very much, although orange is not our favorite color. I also want to thank Mrs Sánchez and Mr Hernández. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Damborena's representative of the Basque Group. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, since we're already off the hook, we'll call it riders. As Mr Aiartza says, in the end, the key to this proposal, which comes from EH Bildu, because it is concrete in one thing: the labour inspection "Let's say" about these professions. The debate could have been broader, especially when talking about the Uberization of the economy; because this is, in short, a very small part of what Uberization is, and then I will refer to that. I'm surprised by a number of things. One: in the end, everyone has said here that the problem is inspection, well, inspection. But I do not understand – and they will allow me, especially government groups – that in the transaction they sign they say there are companies, and they quote three with names and surnames, that they say they "precarise workers, through fraudulent ways aimed at avoiding business obligations in the workplace". Counselor, I don't know what you're doing sitting there, when you should be running to the D.A. to report these three companies, which you say you're doing this. Because this is a crime. It is not that labour rights are violated, but that there are also labour offences in Spanish labour legislation. And Mr Hernandez, who knows you perfectly well, knows this is a crime. And if a company does this, and you say three companies do this, I don't know what you do sitting there and the lehendakari there, instead of running to the prosecution to report that there are three companies in Euskadi that are doing this. I can't explain it to myself! Nor do I explain, in the second point, that Mrs Sánchez tells us that the department has done very well, and everyone come out here asking for more inspection, more inspection and more inspection. Either the department hasn't done so well, or we don't need more inspection, more inspection... or if we need more inspection, more inspection, more inspection? What are we left with? Because what you are urging the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Government to do is to continue and to carry out inspections on all these issues. Third point: that an agreement be made by the department with the deputies and with the outlying haciendas... It does already exist. It already exists... years ago. But, let's see, I don't know what... What is the debate today? That already exists. Fourthly, they say, "helping – with this agreement that already exists years ago – also to ensure that companies comply with their tax obligations." Of companies or riders Well, and this is fantastic. Because you urge the Labour Relations Council "to report in detail on the Uberization of the economy and the new models of relationships created and to carry out studies that analyze and define the scope of this model in Euskadi, identifying companies, sectors, number of people..."; listen, everyone, all sectors of the economy today in Euskadi are affected. Everyone. There's not one who's not affected. Because, if not, we would be a third world economy, which we are not. That we're not... Of course, what is Uberization or what is understood by Uberization? Platforms, they call it, collaborative economy. Basically, apps apps They propose... they relate people to other individuals, without intermediaries, and offer goods and services. What are they offering today? Well, let's see: a house, a room, a car, a parking space, the crowdfunding app Well, who's in charge here? Well, consumers. Consumers who are the mambo kings in this case. Consumers decide whether to use this platform or not. Consumers decide whether they are willing to pay more or prefer to pay less. It's not the funds..., said the capitalist funds – I don't know who was saying it; Mr Hernández I think it was. Those capitalist funds you call pension funds. I don't know if you're for or against pensioners; but, of course, pensioners – today they were out there, right? – want more pensions. Of course, the Basques... It's just that Americans also want more pensions and collect their pensions and want more. Sure, they want their funds where they're there to make money. Everyone wants to get a bigger pension. And I say, indeed, as Mr Aiartza said, it is not that he came, he came long ago. And, of course, he's staying. The question of opening up the countryside, then, whoever wants to try to try it, but it is clear that it improves in many respects the quality of life of almost everyone. And it has aspects that can be negative. One has not been talked about here, but it can probably be the most risky; because, when a platform of these has a monumental success, what can be produced is a monopoly, to end competition, and, of course, labour relations, because they will suffer, but in the end it will also suffer the consumers, who have given rise to that monopoly. And it is clear that if we want to be prepared, in the end, for those things, the negative effects of the modernization of the economy, or digitisation, as you want to call it, do not happen, because it will have to be regulated; but, as we have been without government for two years, because it cannot be regulated. I do not know how much longer we will be without Government, but that is not our responsibility at the moment. And what we do need to be clear, as Mr Aiartza also said, is how they are applied, how we regulate it and how we guarantee the rights of the whole world: of consumers and workers. And that, I'm sorry, because it doesn't come here, but the study is very good, for the Labour Relations Council to study it and tell us in which sectors... I'll tell you all about it. I've even seen farmers complain about the Uberization of agriculture on some website. Of course, and then, listen, it's... six, point six of your transaction: "The Basque Parliament calls on institutions and administrations, within their powers, to take the relevant measures to guarantee the rights of freedom of association, collective bargaining,...". Don't they? The Basque Government, doesn't this do it? The deputies, don't they? The Basque municipalities, don't they? Should they be urged to guarantee these rights? Are you in danger today, because our Basque institutions don't? This is what you say. Man, and then, the responsible consumption campaign, then, is very good, but here we are talking about responsible consumption or how I get the product home, which is what I buy, or what we all buy. Because the responsible consumption campaign, what is it, tell you about the negative aspects of what? From digital platforms? That young people don't use them, that they're bad? What's this... Anyway, it seems to me very good to have responsible consumption campaigns, but what does that have to do with what we are talking about. Either now it turns out that consumption is responsible or not depending on how they bring you home the product.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u71	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u72	I thought that was the product, huh?, that was the product, and that ecologically it was more sustained. I, in any case, as you will understand, when you tell us that there are pirate companies in the Basque Country and you do not denounce them in the court of custody, because we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the day of the answers, EH, gather up from it, Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u74	Yes, in a short time, I think it's a fairly large agreement, and only the member of the Polulag Party who has discussed some things against him. You, Mr Damborenea, the first thing you do is confuse the Uberization of the economy with that of digitisation and the challenges we face in the digital age in which we are currently living. That's the first question. And, therefore, it is clear that there are many economic sectors that have to tend towards digitisation, and so it has to be, but it is not possible to make use of such digitisation or of this ubiquitousization of the economy in a fraudulent way in favour of business profits, to continue to fatten those shark companies – which I said – of the economy, at the expense of the precariousness of the working people. And of course there is this agreement between the parliaments and the Labour Inspectorate today; but, if one were to bother talking to one of the technicians who have to deal with these kinds of issues every day and have to work on them, they would also ask them to do something, please, to be able to update and adapt those protocols and agreements signed, in order to be able to respond, in a more secure way, to the new situations generated after the... well, the digitisation of the economy in many sectors. And you say it's a shame, because today we were bringing an initiative that only served a small part of what is the Uberization of the economy. Don't worry, in February we and we will be happy to discuss what you bring more broadly and which affects the rest of the sectors of economic urbanization.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u75	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u76	No, just for a couple of comments. Our group, of course, also agrees that the problem is not new technologies, but how they are using some new technologies to increase the exploitation of workers. In fact, the main problem of such companies is not that they use these platforms, but the fraud they use, through the figure of the self-employed, for what they are really workers. And they are pirate companies, Mr Damborenea, and not just in this sector and not just with this issue, and it is not so easy to go and denounce them. And I think it would be great for the prosecution to act when there's evidence, but you also know that the way to the courts isn't that simple. It's not that simple! It seems to us that the debate we have had today... then Mr Damborenea I think he has spoken other things, so he understands that others do not know very well what we have been talking about. I think the others don't know what you've been talking about, because I think we all know about some of these companies here, we see the kids and the girls on the street with their... It is the most – let's say – visual example. Indeed, this is in all sectors, but that is the most visual example... Let's go to the kids and the girls, with their backpacks, from here to there, and see who tells me that that is a free self-governing, that is related in equality with the company, I don't care what it is called (Glovo, Deliveroo, whatever...), and it's not a worker, besides, exploited and overexploited. We all know that in this Parliament, and everyone on the street knows that. Therefore, it seems to me that the initiative and the transaction are very good. And he talks about Labour Inspectorate, because the Labour Inspectorate can do a lot in this regard. And yesterday we also saw in the committee how the proceedings – I also agree with what Mrs Sánchez said... – the proceedings of the Labour Inspectorate are then fundamental to the decisions of the courts. That's why we need a much more powerful Labour Inspectorate than we have. I believe that the initiative does not even say that they have done so phenomenal so far, nor does it criticize the work of the Labour Inspectorate. It seems to me that the initiative you do is to tell the Labour Inspectorate to do and to go in that direction. That's what the transaction says to the right extent. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs Sánchez, Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u78	Well, I thought there was almost no reply at this point, because we were all practically in agreement, but I think it was important to go out and sort out a number of issues to which Mr Damborenea referred. Mr Damborenea, we are not talking about committing a crime. Don't get confused. We are talking about a mismatch of workers, who do not have to be in the self-employed regime and should be in the general social security system, as self-employed people. The unification of judgments, I told you in my speech, began to take place in September this year. We're talking about what started to happen two months ago. And it's good: we started having that unification of sentences, to unify the criteria for acting. And I do not say that you did not understand us, because, Mr Damborenea, you are very clever and you understand us perfectly, but you did not hear us when we intervened. You haven't heard anything we've said. Because this is a new reality, and the solutions are changing in the absence of a specific regulation, which has begun to appear also in other countries, as I said, as in France and Italy. In the absence of this specific legislation, in Spain, the changes have taken place through the proceedings of the Labour Inspectorate, and, thanks to these proceedings, the changes in the judgements that are being handed down by the judges have begun to occur. And that's good, and that's why we're influencing the Labour Inspectorate. It's not like the inspector didn't do anything. All of us here are saying that, in this case, the work of the Labour Inspectorate is essential, because, thanks to this work, there has been the jurisprudential change that was necessary to take that turn in this situation that we have presented here today. And what I have also said in my speech is that the Department of Labour has done very well, and I say it again because it has done very well. Because, two years ago, we were the pioneers – and I have already explained it several times – of coordinating between inspections at the state level and at the level of the autonomous community, to carry out anti-fraud campaigns. A year earlier, we started it here. You were in the government and you didn't. Pedro Sánchez had to arrive and start that campaign also at the national level and coordinate it, here, from the Department of Labor, with the State Inspectorate, to get the maximum results. And that's where we went ahead. And what is done right is justice to say it, that is done right and recognize it. And there we must continue to do so; we must continue to fight against labour fraud. Today we have talked about the fraud situation in a given sector and no one here has said that networks are bad, etc., etc.... No, no, I believe that networks have their positive things, and the digital economy also has its negative things. And there are very good things that can be used and they are very positive, but that the negative that is emerging must be tried to stop it, so that there is no precariousness of a given sector, which has less rights recognized than the other workers who provide similar services in other sectors of activity. I therefore believe that this has become very clear in speeches and exhibitions around the world. And that is why I believe that we have done a good job today in the groups that have made the effort to reach this compromise amendment. And I thank the EH Bildu group, the Elkarrekin group Podemos, the Basque Nationalist group, because among the four we have managed to understand each other and reach an agreement, so that we can take more steps in the control of labor fraud within our autonomous community. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u79	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eunerative patriots, Lord Atarzea, shouldn't speak a word. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Estarrona, you tell me you can't do it fraudulently. Well, of course, that's where we all agree. And, when someone commits a fraud, for that is, in this case, the Inspectorate or the Prosecutor's Office, depending on whether it is a labour penalty or whether it is a criminal sanction. There we all agree: the Inspection and the court. Mr Hernández, you tell me the same thing: the problem is not the platforms, but the fraud. Yeah, well, but, like always, like all my life. Now, what you can't tell me here is that it's not so easy to report without evidence. Well, you've claimed they're pirate companies; I don't know what evidence you had... Now you tell me you have no evidence to go to court and you bring me here who are pirates, and they all sign it, without evidence... And he wants me to approve. Hey, no. Sure, no, so far. Everything has... everything has a limit. You talk to me about boys and girls walking... of course, we all see it. Look, when it's all over, from the rider's name. And, as it is not regulated, and as it is not regulated here, because it is not intended to regulate, or has not wanted to regulate by anyone, and competences have several in this matter, for we are as we are. Mrs. Sánchez, you're telling me it's not a crime. If it's not a crime, what's it to say that these companies are pirates? Of course, if it's not a crime, he says, no, it's a bad workers' frame. Well, we'll see when it's finally settled in the courts, or if it's not settled before a rule, right?, a rule that fixes it, what it is or stops being. But, in any case, in order not to be a crime, of course, that you sign that these companies act fraudulently with Social Security and Labour, that is indeed a crime. But, of course, that's what you've signed. And he tells me: the department has done very well. Look, I didn't tell you I did it so badly. What I've told you is that you ask the department that has to inspect more, because it does little; because, if not, I wouldn't tell you to inspect more. Why do you tell him to inspect more? [[Barres]] Because he doesn't do much inspection. Well, that's...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The discussion is over and we'll vote. [[Berber]] EH Collect, Euskal Sozialists, intercorrection by Podemos and Euzébertarians. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-12.u82	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
