ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. And today we will begin with a minute's silence for Mr. Ferdinand Bues and Mr. Enrique Casas. [[Silent]] First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the measures of the authorias of the Euberts of Eubert of Eangue, a member of the Society, a member of the Personal Government, and of the Solicitor of Autogony, in order to enter the public offices of the Central Administration by Autonomy. " Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u1	Thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Erkoreka jauna, the subject of the question I ask you today recalls the emotional speech recently given by an actor when he received a well-known prize. He mentioned three words, which today I make mine: inclusion, diversity and visibility. Men whose diversity is functional and especially intellectual must be shown, especially in the sphere of work, that their difference is not a condition to work; they have more obstacles than other men. Thus, the public sector plays a key role and an exemplary role in the inclusion of these people and in building an inclusive and equal-opportunities society. We have learned that steps have been taken by the Basque public administrations and, in particular, the Basque Public Employment Bill recently passed by the Government and referred to this House for processing and approval includes positive action measures for people with functional and intellectual diversity. We know that there are no incapacitated people, but inadequate environments, and that is why we all have a long way to go. That's why, Mr. Chief, I'd like to ask you if you've got some special business in the Basque Administration. That's why we're asking you that question today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Madam Laruri, not only the law of public employment, which you have mentioned, but which the Government has tested and sent to the legislature in the last month. In addition, the euskal strategy, the euscal strategy, the strategy on job, the strategy that looks at 2020, both of them predict that 7% of the rarest in public professions ought to be reserved to those who have the indefinable capacity, and especially to those who have the intellectual incompetence of 2%. So there's no doubt about the predictions of the law. But these generic forecasts, both of the law and of the employment planning, must necessarily be supplemented by some operational programme that ensures the real and effective implementation of these forecasts, so that these groups can, in fact, enjoy the right to access a public post in the public sector, in the public administration or, simply, to exercise the right to work and to their employment, within the logical framework of a right to equality and non-discrimination because of their unique and specific situation. In the department I have the honour to lead, we have been working on this operational programme for months now and are doing so, as it cannot otherwise be, in close cooperation and with the support of the entities, sectors and associations working in the field of this collective. What we have been able to learn from these groups above all, fundamentally, is that, beyond the legal provisions, an operational programme that facilitates the access of people with intellectual functional diversity in the field of public administration cannot focus exclusively on OPEs, it must start from a much more holistic, much more omni-comprehensive holistic approach. Let it start from a prior analysis of the role that these people can play in our public organizations in general and in our administrative organizations in particular and that, of course, it will then culminate in a well-guided, well-structured programming on tutoring, the support that they can receive or should receive at the time of joining the civil service, so that their insertion is as harmonious as possible and does not cause any dysfunction, neither in the organization nor in these people. Therefore, the programming that we are conducting necessarily operates before, during and after what is really the selective processes. Rather, by studying in great detail what are the templates, what are the RPTs and what are the characteristics of the RPT positions that can accommodate or respond to their special characteristics, so that they obey or respond to the profile of these people. During, adapting the selective processes so that these people can present themselves and overcome them. There are different formulas that will have to be studied in each case, either by setting separate shifts or by setting specific test adaptations. And thirdly, by establishing, as I said before, the mechanisms of entry into the Administration once they have passed the selective process through mechanisms of tutoring. Modern societies are assessed, inter alia, at their level of development, by the way in which they treat and facilitate the exercise of rights by these groups, particularly those with intellectual disabilities. And here we have a collective, we have an important task. All social actors cooperate in this area and there is a unique responsibility of the public administrations, and in this we are committed and in this we will use all the human and economic resources that are needed, in fact, to make this plan effective and to guarantee the effective right of these people to their integration into the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which is held by the Congressmen of the World of Maddalen, by the Congress of the Union, by the political condition of the President." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u5	Mrs. President, thank you. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. During these days I am following the Supreme Court of Madrid against the independence of Catalonia. Una vergünza lo que tumos viendo y oyendo en el Tribunnal Supremo spñol. And it is not new, as it is not new, to deny the liberty of this people from the Spanish State for centuries, which has been done for centuries, even in the last 40 years, there have been some or others in the government. The fact that we have to hold three general elections in three years shows the very serious situation in the Spanish State, which is nothing but a democratic crisis, in my opinion, the crisis of those who do not believe in democracy. And when I proposed to you today, Mr. Urkullu, although I didn't know it, has been disturbed in the last few hours, from my point of view, because of the motion granted by the Populular Party in the Senate. And we can say that evolution is within the house, that evolution lies in those chairs, and is sitting there in evolution. Involved is here and next door. Because your partner, Mr Urkullu, claims that dismissing the legitimate government, dissolving Parliament was a balm for Catalonia. "Spain you want" traola barreiatzen have bitartean. Nik, egia esan, I prefer the hashtag Gauzak honela, ez dakit zer etorkizun ikusten diazun herri. What will this Parliament have left? What will be of the decisions we make? And that's the way I wanted to ask you the question this week, how you see it and what you think of the political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Irriart, in Spain, in the world, and in Europe, is what is to be met with the solution of romances, or whether each of us must make his own way. I'm convinced that civilization is indistinguishable and destructive, multilateralism is complex, but it allows the world to endure and live forever. A week ago, yes, the President of Spain called for elections and concluded the law. And on this Wednesday, in the last plenounium of the Senate, a proposal was admitted to prevent the execution of the law, by accepting an agreement not to comply with the State of Guernica. That's collegeism, too. This decision taken seems very serious and disturbing to me. Not only from the rating of the state, but from the aspect of the political state that lives in the state. To adopt a motion in the Senate based on the idea that increasing the competence of a community breaks the principle of equality, is to feed a fallacy. Adopting a motion calling for non-compliance with a law is to induce prevarication. Planting this motion without any practical effect is called provocation. In fact, all the transfers have come to Euskadi through the pact. Skills have led to an improvement in the quality of life and well-being of citizens. Full compliance with the Gernika Statute benefits all persons and does not harm anyone, either here or in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u9	I have told you on some other occasion, a pact when the Spanish State has been interested in it. Bitartean, Espainiatik euskaldunok orokorrean jai izan dugu. Anyway, Mr. Urkullu, in front of this final attack, I saw you last night and even today, and I'm glad. And it seems to me that this firmness must be maintained. Because, in general, it seems that you have decided to cross your fingers and trust that the numbers will be favorable to try to sell the idea that you are still influential in Madrid. But it is high time that the Lehendakari were told aloud what the citizenry repeats and what even high officials of its administration say over and over again, that Madrid never gives them, that Madrid never gives us. And so long as they continue, we may not be able to advance the great challenges of this people, as we please. The weakness of the state is more and more remarkable, it has renounced democratic means, and has no political offer for the Basques and other countries, and consequently has no social offer, and has no offer to answer our everyday. They criminalize dissent, criminalize basic human rights, and in addition, the head of state is allowed to say that the law is above democracy. It is allowed to say, that the law is above democracy. Then in the welcome of Mr Sánchez, Mr Urkullu. Hence it seems to us that the time has come for us to build a democratic shelter with determination and leadership. At least we must establish a relationship between the same people, and we have a large agreement in this legislature, a powerful tool formed in the treaty in this parliament, and we shall not despair of it. And that's the measures taken in the power of the automatically, and we need popular traditions. And they are popular traditions, national traditions between those who defend what this people chooses. We also make the call a larger arrangement between the superfluous forces of self-ritantiism, and I also think that we can work together in one moment or another. But I believe that the solution will not come from Spain, none of the alternatives guarantees the respect that the Basque people deserve, because Spanish nationalism does, that is cross-cutting. It is time to articulate a strong sovereignist bloc that guarantees majorities in favour of the right to decide and in favour of the freedom of peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, the road will be the multilaliteralism I have mentioned after the elections of April 28. The political state of Spain, Euscadicus, or Catalonia will not be excluded from this way. There are two standards which have been placed face to face, some of them believe that the future of Spain is in the bet between victors. From this point of view, the decision taken in the Senate, or the passionate claim of judicial prosecution of the political question of Catalonia, or of the article 155. The solution is just the opposite, and the state's country has no solution unless we are engaged in a serious matter for political negotiations. Therefore, I want to remark that you made a proclamation here yesterday to design a model based on the manifold nation of the State. You did it yourself, Mrs. Irart. You mentioned Sánche, you mentioned our members of the Jeltza of the Eural Party, and that, if I am not mistaken, it would be good to be able to govern this formula in the Spanish State, which was the last few months. So the interview, negotiation, agreement, and the model of confirmation is indispensable. This is not only a means or instrument, it is not merely a tactic to accomplish it. It's a strategic bet, a way of understanding politics. You mentioned the popular faith, it's a way of understanding a country. To acknowledge and remark that it is the best thing for the people and for society. This is the example which we must show to the society of euscals from this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u12	Thank you, Mr. Urkullu, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, the consequence of the ending of the law in the State for Euskitadi." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u13	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good morning. Last week, the budget project of Pedro Sánchez fell, which brought back to call the cracks and elections of the majority of the censors for April 28th. What sort of consequences are to the President about the end of this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Martínnez, you look at the end of the state law. You will have your view, mine, and I don't think this legislature is the most convenient place for the discussion between these two views. On the contrary, I think it is a convenient place to act and act on the hinges we hold in our hands. I'm asking you to look at our trial by making specific proposals. I think we should be working on it. It's our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u17	Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, we need to look at this institution because there's plenty of time to do it, but there's a lot of agreements and a lot of things that could or might have been done with that majority of censorship, and they'll probably be back by the law of the state. Why do I ask this? Because I've seen you and your party often worry about you, with a certain concern for the last few days, about transfers, not keeping the transfers. And that's what we agree with. But, for example, I have seen a great concern, or as a great concern, concerning investments. I have heard a lot these days about the complaint you have about investments that may not reach Euskadi in the last few days, but there are many issues I have not heard about. I think your party has felt more comfortable often negotiating for the great builders of this country than for the needs of the people. I believe that there are clear examples that remain there, in the tinter, such as the lines of proximity between Bilbao and Donostia, or the communication problems that Enkarterri has for lack of investment in the Bilbao-Santander line, to check that there is a articulation of territory and sustainable mobility, which have never been among the priorities that you have had to negotiate with the government. But I think there's an agenda that needs to be presented. Faced with this agenda, a new agenda that must be brought to the state legislatures and that is the Basque social agenda that Elkarrekin Podemos wants to put forward. I believe that we must put politics at the service of people in Euskadi, with measures that improve people's lives, such as the interprofessional minimum wage or pensions, and that is what we must do when we have to influence the political agenda, in Euskadi and in Madrid. And it is surprising to me that, although we are talking about looking at this or the other legislature, well, you do not mention the fact that the most social and progressive budgets of the last decade in Madrid have not come forward, that this has no mention whatsoever on your part. I believe that there are issues that impact and affect much in Euskadi. I believe that issues such as the eight-week parental leave, the allowance for unemployed people over 52 years of age, or that there is no financial endowment for the pact against macho violence, and that it will no longer be possible, which is worrying that Basque society cannot benefit from these measures. That there are other impacts also of electoral advancement, that laws will fall that were in process in Congress or about to arrive and that many people in Euskadi expected, as may be the law of euthanasia, the law of protection of minors from abuses, the repeal of some aspects of the Mordaza Law or the labor reform of the People's Party, also aspects for equality, law of wage gap or of untransferable paternity and equality permits. I think you're worried about where the PNV is going to be on April 29, but I think we really need to compare, that we're worried about how most of the motion of censure is going to stay...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Time is up. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martinez, I'm a little perplexed, confused, confused... I don't know if you're talking to the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Government, what attitude we have to take to what action can be taken in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, which belongs to the political parties, if we're talking about our Basque legislature, if we're talking about the completed Spanish legislature, if we're talking about the next legislature and what it belongs to the political parties... Mr Martínez, we have a autonomy, and if we use it properly, we have a chance to show you that while you're looking at elections in the state and that you're looking at zero while you're looking at the elections, we're working here. As the state legislature closes and reopens, Mr Martínez, we have an opportunity here to move forward. I am aware that the early end can delay compliance with the transfer schedule and the pending work plan. In any case, I am left with the positive thing, which is that for the first time we have a formal recognition by a Spanish government that the Statute of Gernika is not being complied with, something we have not counted on since Parliament approved the first outstanding transfer report in 1993. So we could say here that we're getting a good chance to make a deal. All the legislatures accepted a law yesterday. The same month, with your protection, we took up two budget projects and, as I told you, Mr Martínnez, we appreciate your attitude. It's my proposition to maintain that attitude and to act on that road here. We have a lot of opportunities on the table to make new deals and make them worse. Mr Martínez, the early end of the legislature and the closure of the chambers in the state can have its counterpoint with greater openness in this Parliament to the agreements. This path is not new in the relations between the Basque Government and Elkarrekin Podemos, however much the opposite is said. Both from our Government, I insist, and from the two parliamentary groups that support the Government. We have passed it, from dialogue and joint work, with positive results in the cases, for example, of anti-doping laws, cultural heritage or sports professions, in the Strategic Agenda of the Euskera or the Vocational Training Plan and yesterday also with the approval of the Law on Energy Sustainability of the Public Administration. I believe that while in the state they are in elections, here we can continue to work, for example, the public employment law, the new law amending the Law on Equality of Men and Women and the eradication of sexist violence against women; we can continue to work on the reform of Lanbide or Income Guarantee Income, or by improving policies of support to families, concern for people. The Basque Government has extended its hand to all groups, including its own, in order to achieve and to continue working on new agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the "Natalia Rojo Solania Sozia Sozialists" of the Environmental Planting and Housing Department, about the strategy of the circular economy." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u21	Thank you, President, good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, Mr Arriola. When we talk about circular economy, it is important to take into account the energy assessment of waste and the promotion of selective collection. In a model of circular economy such as we want and to which we aspire, the value of products and materials is maintained for as long as possible, waste is minimized and resources are reintroduced repeatedly into the productive cycle, creating value when goods reach the end of their useful life. In order to facilitate the transition to a more circular economy, the European Commission launched in December 2015 a series of revised legislative proposals on waste, as well as a comprehensive action plan setting out a specific mandate for the current Commission. In this regard, the waste proposals contain a clear and ambitious long-term vision of increased recycling and reduction of discharges and, at the same time, propose concrete measures to address existing barriers in specific sectors or materials, such as plastics, food waste, critical raw materials, construction and demolition, biomass and bio-products, as well as horizontal measures in areas such as innovation and investment. In order to assess the importance of the circular economy for Euskadi, we could give data that show the high external dependence of our economy on raw materials. His department, which runs, presented a few months ago the diagnosis "Circular Economy in the Industry of the Basque Country", which revealed the implementation of more circular innovative solutions that would entail significant savings. When we talk about waste hierarchy, the first strategy is prevention. Well, we consider ecodesign to be the main tool in the prevention of waste generation and where we find more opportunities and benefits for our Basque companies. The sectors with the most potential identified are transport equipment, electrical equipment, machine-tool, metal, chemical, furniture, building and agri-food. The path we have travelled in Euskadi should recognize that to date it is important and places us as an autonomous community in a prominent position. In order to advance this transition process, collaboration and relationship between all actors is identified as fundamental, so that the vision is not only the circularity of companies, but the circularity of the territory and in this way move towards a more circular Euskadi that will promote the competitiveness, employment and sustainability of the territory. The circular economy must lead to a sustainable and better society for us and future generations. As we proposed in the justification, your department has announced the development for this year of a circular economy strategy for Euskadi at 10 years view. That is why we asked you the question: What lines of work is the department that you lead to drive the circular economy in Euskadi? That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u22	Thank you, Miss Rojo. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u23	Thank you, Madam President, Mrs Red. The circular economy is the most effective strategy to make our economy sustainable. Changing the current linear model of extracting, using and throwing resources into reducing, reusing and recycling is not only a moral imperative, but also a good environmental and social business. This is demonstrated by the data we have obtained in Euskadi; it can grow economically, while improving environmental variables and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. We are in a prominent position in the development of the circular vision, especially in industry, but we must move forward by involving the whole of society and the whole territory in this transition. We are already giving a definitive impetus to the Circular Economy Strategy-2030, which will set out concrete goals and actions to transform our economic model. We have started by making a diagnosis of the circular economy in industry, which tells us that we are well positioned and that the application of the model can significantly improve the competitiveness of businesses and employment. As you said, the sectors with the greatest potential and also the five priority lines have been identified: ecodesign, remanufacturing and advanced repair, servitization, recycling of waste with key metals and plastics and rubber. In addition to the diagnosis, we have developed the indicators of circular economy that will allow us to test the effectiveness of the actions marked in the strategy, and we have also carried out both studies on the circular economy in relation to competitiveness and waste management. These studies tell us that growth expectations in markets are higher for circular economy products or businesses than for traditional products. In fact, the leading Basque companies plan to bill more than 7 billion in circular economy products by 2020, and applying simple measures there is an average potential saving for the Basque industry of 6% of the raw materials it consumes, which would amount to 2 billion euros. Duplicate the rate of use of circular material and reduce by 40% the generation of waste per unit of Gross Domestic Product with special emphasis on plastics and food waste, are central objectives of the Strategy. In addition, the implementation of public tools and tools aimed at boosting both the demand for the circular economy and supply has been stepped up. The first, by means of tax deductions and subsidies to investment in equipment, the fees to be paid, the authorizations of environmental inspections or the development of the Basque Ecodesign Center and the Green Public Procurement program. Thanks to this, in 2018 there were 150 environmentalised leaflets in public tenders in the Basque administrations, three times more than in 2017. The offer is stimulated by innovation support programmes to develop initiatives in ecodesign, ecoinnovation and demonstration projects in circular economy or the Basque Ecodesign Hub. Between 2016 and 2018, 98 innovative projects were generated. We will continue to work because the circular economy is not just about turning waste into resources, it is a transformation of the economic submodel that must lead us to a better sustainable society for us and for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made to the president of the legal law which has just ended." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, in your first reply, it seemed to me that you paraphrased Cánovas del Castillo... It'll have been unwitting. But there's a phrase I like about him. He said: "The freedoms of vascongados benefit those who enjoy them and do not harm anyone unless the just envy which in others excites is for harm." I want to say at the outset that I have devoted my whole life to defending the freedoms of the vascongados and it is my commitment and I will continue to do so. I have always done that, and that is our group's commitment as well. And that those freedoms of the vascongados, within a plural Spain, are translated into our self-government, which is peculiar and which is different, whose strengthening we have always urged, our self-government, our forality, our Economic Concert, within an integrated, plural, liberal and open Spain. That is what we have devoted all our political effort to always and in what I can collaborate with you. It closes a legislature that has had two phases. A first phase of understanding, where there was a government willing to empower and strengthen those signs of identity of the Basque in the national whole, which came together with important agreements, agreements that are historic and that you described as such. Mr Erkoreka said, fiscal peace for many years in the agreement to renew the Economic Concert and the Law of the Cup. Historical agreements on investments, strengthening the role of Spain in the Basque Country, bringing forward investments that have been long postponed, and therefore, collaboration, stability, understanding. And his party made a decision. I have not come here to reproach you and I will not tell you to show your regret for that decision, but I am convinced that you have to think that that decision was wrong and that we have done very bad business, because the next part of the legislature has not marked that search for understanding or stability or strengthening the things that unite us. It has been marked by the Catalan Independenceists and we have all been at the dawn of what the Catalan Independenceists, who had finally put Pedro Sánchez, were saying or not. And you, in your government, in spite of the promises made to you by Pedro Sánchez and the government you have made, which put your party in Madrid, have finally achieved nothing, nothing more than words, nothing more than smoke, there has been nothing. They also lost here the possibility of having a majority that would give stability and allow the government to work smoothly in Euskadi. They thought that, lost that majority, it was enough to sign a role for Bildu to give them support, and that is not the case either, because the path of sovereignism never leads to stability. I believe that you have done very bad business and you have been wrong, that business has been painful and bad for everyone, for us too, and I want to tell you today that we are going to elections on April 28 and a new legislature is coming and, I tell you honestly, you look at the future with confidence. If you have been wrong in the past you can rectify in the future, don't think the roads are closed, don't think you're busy doing what you're told from Catalonia, don't think you're busy supporting a majority that just leads to paralysis and think, I know it's hard what I'm saying, but think about it. That the way of collaboration of rectification and in the search for stability again is always possible, is always possible. If you choose the path of confrontation with the State is a sovereignist position associating our fate with what happens in Catalonia, that path is not going to lead anywhere. Don't think that with the People's Party, which is going to do the next government in Spain are the closed roads, think slowly Mr. lehendakari because what we want...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, if the twisting of what has been the process that has been experienced in the last three years in the relationship with the Spanish governments is similar to what may have been the reference to an emulation of Cánovas del Castillo, of course, you lose care, because what I have said is a principle in which I believe. You ask me about the assessment of the legislature that has just ended. Well, I will say that I value it as a brief and accidental legislature, no less revolting than the previous one. And the truth is that in the last three years we have witnessed a certain political and institutional imbalance in the state, a imbalance that also affects you, Mr Alonso. Chronicle of the miscarriage. Elections on December 20, 2015; impossible investiture session; after 111 days blank, the Courts are dissolved. New elections on 26 June 2016; months of negotiation and Rajoy president with the votes of PP, Citizens, Coalition Canaria, Forum Asturias and UPN, abstention of the majority of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and vote against the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Alonso, Mrs Iriarte, vote against the Basque Nationalist Party. Two years later, on 24 May 2018, the ruling of the Gürtel case and the political earthquake. First, Citizens withdraw their support for the People's Party Government. Second, Citizens and United We can agree on a motion of censure to call elections at the next session. Mr. Alonso, is this the reality? Third, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party presents a motion of censure. On June 1, Pedro Sánchez appointed president, the new government does not approve the budgets and convenes elections for April 28. End of 10 months of accidental government. Evaluation: Governance in Spain suffers from a serious problem of instability, political incommunicado and incapacity for the agreement. Bipartisanism has been left behind and no capacity has been demonstrated to manage a more pluralist hemicycle. From Spanish politics, he seems to entertain himself in demagogy and in thick stroke, in making great accusations and playing the search for the culprit, and forgets the search for solutions. You have been insisting that we have done a bad business supporting Pedro Sánchez. Look, Mr. Alonso, the Basque government has no vote in Congress or in the Senate. Our relationship is institutional and we have exercised it to foster a climate of understanding and loyal collaboration, I repeat, loyal with the Spanish Government, with Sánchez, and also with Rajoy. With Rajoy we achieved the agreement of the Concert and the Cup or the agreement to finish the High Speed Train in 2023, yes, lights. We did not get any meetings in the Joint Transfer Committee, nor did they stop resorting to the laws passed by this Parliament. We have not even managed to prevent you from submitting amendments in the Senate to your own budget, and to try to undermine the positive agreements for Euskadi, Mr Alonso. This is the reality, you do, but shadows many, many, Mr Alonso. Yesterday we attended the shadow of shadows, in the Senate, the day before yesterday. A motion was approved by a senator from the Basque PP, urging the Spanish Government to breach the current law and even the Constitution itself. It seems to me a tremendous despondency. It is unusual to defend, that compliance with the law breaks the principle of equality. Equality, Mr Alonso, is not uniformity, it is not uniformity, Mr Alonso. A happily surpassed example, the uniformity imposed by Francoism, generated the greatest inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectition, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the members of the Podemos, to the President, to the caremakers, to the society of the State, and to put life in the centre." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u29	Yes, good morning, everyone. The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief physician, Mr. President. Traditionally, the institutions are making decisions and implementing measures that affect all citizens. However, only the needs, demands and interests of a few are taken into account in making decisions. The main policies and decisions being implemented in Euskadi respond fundamentally to the influence and proposals of economic elites, large companies, macroeconomic data and are at the service of a system that is voracious with the rights of all. Today we want to talk about how to start opening the way to a society and institutions that make people's lives worthy at the heart of their organization. Because we really believe that this is the only possible path to a more just, more egalitarian and more sustainable society. The policy that only looks up, that listens only to those who have a platform to self-proclaim themselves as engines of economy and society, makes governments and institutions have a patriarchal and fragmented vision of the daily reality that is essential to sustain the development of a country. A few days ago, one of the most relevant political figures of this time, the mayor of Barcelona, Ada Colau, towards a very interesting reflection on what some politicians call big and small policies. He used the words of a Catalan politician, who referred to Ada Colau's work as a small policy, who, as we all know, is doing advanced policies, in areas such as attention to dependence, the eradication of sexist violence, the regulation of rent, to end speculation or the improvement of public transport. For us, the management that Ada Colau is doing in Barcelona is undoubtedly a reference to how to make policies that, as she says, are policies to win rights in all areas, in civil rights, as well as in social rights, without hierarchies. I mean, big politics. And today we want to talk about a very important part of society. A part that has historically been invisible to the eyes of traditional politics. A part that has not been taken into account, that has not been wanted to look, and that the last few years is winning a gap in the political agenda. Although for some, as we have seen, it is a small policy. We talk about care, care for people who are in a situation of dependence, all the essential tasks to sustain lives and social reproduction, and we don't talk about birth. We talk about cultural reproduction, we talk about educating, socializing, transmitting values, skills for coexistence. That is, all that is said to be done by families, so generically and that, in fact, for centuries they have been doing so above all and above all by women. In the daily reality of anonymous people, those who do not have stands, nor can they lobby in the big offices, have been the women, anonymous and invisible, who for centuries have carried out all the tasks we need to survive and live with dignity and who also need the whole system to stay afloat. All women and all these out-of-focus tasks have been and are ignored by those who make decisions and lead institutions. We believe that it is high time that day-to-day reality was placed at the centre of the concerns of institutions and decision makers. Attention to dependent people, children, sick people, elderly people or those with functional diversity, is a daily concern for all families, because absolutely all of us at some point in our lives need care. This unrecognized and unpaid work, mostly done by women in the family, has begun to come to light, as he says, two days ago. And it has been feminism, and in particular the feminist critical economy, that has taken care of the dark and has shown that it is a fundamental part of the scaffolding for the construction of the economic system that we have. We cannot talk about a wage gap without focusing on the sexual division of labour, because the reality is that there are professions that are occupied above all by women and masculinized professions that are occupied above all by men. And it is no coincidence that the sectors where there are more women usually have lower symbolic recognition, but also lower material recognition, lower wages and poorer working conditions compared to the masculinized sectors. This will be better understood by the interpellation that my colleague Edurne will shortly perform. We cannot talk about ending the wage gap, with the glass roof, with the sticky floor, we cannot talk about achieving equality without mentioning how we are going to change our economic model, because it leaves aside the well-being of people and the common good, because it promotes and supports the invisible and unpaid work of women in the houses. And this is because the system always gives priority to what is considered "productive", and I say it with many quotes, because at this point we all know that the macroeconomics and the traditional economy consider productive only what has monetary value and point. And according to these traditional theories, which some continue to take into account in making decisions and governing, only this has value for the development of a country, no matter what impact it has on people's lives, so, we find that the arms industry, for example, is also considered productive. Curious, isn't it? Economic activities that generate unrecoverable environmental impacts in generations are also productive, yet activities for the sustainability of life and social reproduction are neither counted nor recognized. The extra hours performed by women in an invisible and free manner in the home amount to 8.9% of the Spanish State's Gross Domestic Product. Construction contributed 10.6%. That is said in a study recently published by a platform of large companies and, Mr Urkullu, we sincerely believe that it is time that the daily concerns of all families, and of women in particular, so that all people, when we need it, have the necessary care and attention, become a concern of the whole society and a priority of the institutions and of those who govern. And for that, short, medium and long-range measures are needed, which seek to respond to immediate needs and also to seek deeper, deeper changes, so as not to be eternally patching and playing with people's rights. And that is why, Mr Lehendakari, we ask you what you are going to do to advance towards a social organization that is more just and equal, into a society in which all, with the leadership of the institutions, we become responsible for the care and care of those who need it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u31	Madam Chair, President, chief of departments, good morning to all. Reality shows us that women are the principal guardians of our society. These surveillance are inevitable for the development of our society. Nevertheless, though in the last decades women have made great progress to enter into the trade and social activities, they are still assigned the responsibility of the care of persons. Not just the task of taking care of the children, but also of keeping old or dependents. Women are the managers who are involved in the restaurants, and at the same time the principal resources. If they have a minor or more and are employed, women have the option of applying for and making use of the reduction in working hours, with the penalization of the career path that in practice is assuming. The option of managing the referral of the care of children or minors to other women, in some cases domestic or unpaid service, such as family members and also preferably grandmothers, also rests with these dual-faced women. All this has a consequence, a series of double or triple days, in which women are immersed and their penalization in the labour market, among others. For the Basque Government, it is a priority for people to be able to reconcile personal, family and work life and to do so on an equal basis. We are aware that we are still faced with obstacles that prevent it, many of them structural, such as the wage gap between men and women, which also causes the choice of who receives permits or half-days to be conditioned. Another of the conditioning factors is the slow process in which men are becoming involved in the participation of domestic work or in the care of dependent persons. The Basque Government understands that we must move towards a paradigm shift in talking about the care needs of an advanced society like ours. That paradigm shift is already picked up as a target and axis in the VII. A plan for the equality of women and men, which proposes to place life at the centre, so that it is sustainable in terms of continuity, quality of life, level of justice and equity in which all citizens live. This new paradigm, so that all people can remain in quality employment and in which care needs are met, without anyone having to give up to guarantee their foresight, income or personal life. Thus, the Equality Plan has as one of its strategic axes the transformation of economies and social reorganization to guarantee rights. Specifically, in point 5, the Plan deepens the visibility and value of care, as well as the ways to support co-responsibility in its provision. Its aim is, first, to socially recognize care as an indispensable condition for the sustainability of life; secondly, to highlight and value unpaid care work; and, lastly, to support a new social care organization that redistributes its provision. Euskadi has long had a Equality Act since 2005, which regulates a number of measures aimed at promoting real and effective equality between men and women in all spheres of life. Thus, it shows that the reconciliation of personal, family and work life is considered one of the areas of priority and intervention. The intervention must be aimed at promoting, proposing and building new models of relationship between women and men, new uses of spaces and times. And, of course, it must seek a profound and structural transformation of the social values on which this sexual division of labour and the world is based. We're working on it, Mrs. Arana. First, and with regard to co-responsibility, the Basque Public Employment Act has promoted the establishment of provisions on permits on the grounds of reconciliation of personal, family and social life. Among other things, it provides for a 16-week responsability permit for each member of the couple, with remuneration of 100% of the contribution base and non-transferable. We also work on training and awareness-raising through programmes such as Gizonduz and campaigns for the involvement of parents in the care of children in a co-responsible manner. On the other hand, we also work with companies to promote an organizational cultural change, which brings with it a greater flexibility of schedules, among other measures. And in this sense, we offer aid through Emakunde to companies to carry out diagnoses and equality plans within them. We already have a hundred companies working together on equal terms and we create a network of companies, such as Bai Sarea, committed to equality and in favour of taking such measures. The IV Family Plan highlights the piloting of advice to companies for the implementation of measures to reconcile personal, family and work life, and so far 30 companies from the three territories of different sectors are already participating in this initiative. Two years ago there were only three and we hope that every year they will add more to this dynamic. This experience will continue in new measures to incorporate reconciliation plans in enterprises, allowing for greater flexibility of schedules, advice on the virtues it offers, both for companies and for workers, the implementation of measures aimed at co-responsibility in conciliation. As a fourth measure we also have the website of Concilia+, which is an effective tool of support and accompaniment in matters of conciliation for companies. And we have proposed as a government that present or future care tasks do not involve a handicap especially for women when it comes to accessing the labour market. We want to avoid the question that many job interviews only involve young women: Do you plan to have children? Another measure that we are going to put in place goes further and we are moving forward in the processing of that new decree which means an important step forward on the current one that we already have, with the aim of improving aid for conciliation. We want to allow us, on the one hand, to introduce an economic benefit for the coverage of surpluses for the non-pregnant parent up to 16 weeks. Thus, this period is equal to that of the current maternity leave, to be enjoyed within 12 months of birth and in a period other than that of maternity leave, with an amount equivalent to 100 % of the contribution base. And this measure, as it is proposed, is a pioneer in the state and is above the standards recently recommended by the European institutions. On the other hand, we cannot forget the importance of positive parenthood and its answer. This is a way of understanding growth and education, at the foundation of which the respect for the needs of the children, and the actions of their development, are to be directed, considering the environment of each family and the skill of the parents and mothers. When we treat children well, we encourage suitable developments and well-beings, for which professionals ought to transmit to families the needs of children, such as attention, respect, education, rules, and love. Next Thursday, the working group on gender equality will be set up at the Social Dialogue Bureau, to take steps to address wage discrimination in the Basque Country, where women earn €7.576 less per year than men, representing a 24.4 per cent gap. All actors, society, companies and institutions must be involved in solving this problem. And, Mrs Arana, for the Basque Government, it is a priority for people to reconcile their personal, family and work lives and to do so equally. This is what we are defining with our plans, initiatives and measures, and our work is a reference for other communities and countries interested in following these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u33	Bai, Eskerrik asko, Mr Urkullu, for the answer. We have a model of care for dependency, Mrs Artolazabal, which is based on the efforts of families, well, forgiveness, of women, especially of adult women; of adult women in families, with aid for conciliation, who continue to take women out of the labour market to stay in their homes and who, moreover, do not function nor are they adequate, nor do they even question why the budget remains unspent year after year. You are based on a model of patriarchal care, which consists of giving timely financial aid to families to seek life as they can, in a society that revolves around other interests. That's why thousands of families are always running to get to everything without being able to get to nothing on time. A model whose aid is not universal, Mrs Artolazabal, does not take into account the variety of families, nor does it take into account persons on family networks, who do not guarantee women's rights, who do not promote equality and who endanger the right to care. In short, a model that is far from the Nordic countries that you like to mention so much. Look, women with this model are required to respond in employment as if they did not have to take care of themselves and, at the same time, are required to take care of themselves as if they did not have the right to personal life and to decent employment. That is, they are demanded and expressed on all sides. I see that the Equality Plan is known and that it is very well written on paper, Mrs Artolazabal. These policies that you have mentioned, which say that we should do, which are in the VII Plan, do not exist. That's right, it's super cool on paper. There is nothing but to look at your budgets, which, in your opinion, you present with a report that says that they are perverse for women and that they deepen the pay gap or the services you provide to citizens, to realize that attention to situations of dependency, to situations of equality, to job insecurity or to boost employment in sectors accessible to sustainable women and men is not among your priorities. They're a lot of satellites, their plans, in a universe they don't care about. But that is true, when it comes to talking about plans that say change paradigms, look at the feminist economy or take the lead in the fight against the wage gap, they are real stars. You don't change or transform anything at all. That's right, they kidnap anyone. Because as they steal our language, how do you fight them back? We have it clear, we talk and we propose to move towards a social organization that has as its horizon to achieve life worthy of all people. Of all, not of one another, Mrs. Artolazabal. A model of sustainable, fair and inclusive development. A model that guarantees the right to care for all persons. That gives women the opportunity to choose whether they want to take care of it or not. And don't make them, that your plans that's what they promote. And that they themselves have ensured the right to be cared for in a dignified way. To start that path, first, Mrs. Artolazabal, to start you have to want. You have to have a will. We must put aside a way of doing politics that has traditionally ignored and disregarded everything that is essential for the sustainability of life and social reproduction. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is no system and there is no fair, equal and sustainable country project without taking into account the care in all its dimensions and the work that falls on women's backs. With political will, we must promote a deep, generous, public, open and plural debate and above all make room for voices that usually do not have access to the places where decisions are made. And in that debate, Mrs Artolazabal, the whole public administration, the whole private enterprise, the social and economic actors, the third sector and all men and women must be committed. And in addition to a deep debate, we need to review what needs to be reviewed, without fear. Reconfirming what is not right, that would be a demonstration of responsibility on your part and that would demonstrate a commitment. The conciliation aid must be reviewed as soon as possible and the system of care for the unit must also be reviewed. We advocate a public, universal, comprehensive and integrated response. And this is just some of the steps that would have to be taken and this Government is not doing it, because it is engaged in partial plans and measures, Mrs Artolazabal, which it is not resolving, nor responding to the great challenges presented at this time. Look, put on the batteries and let us of great headlines that are just that, headlines. Because the measures that you present in reality do not exist, or are not expected, or are perverse.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u35	Thank you, ma'am. I, Mrs. Arana, when we talk about these issues and many others, I sometimes feel good because... I don't know if it's the word... It seems that you are the only ones who have the power to defend, in this case to women, in order to be able to carry out initiatives, that for you ours are patriarchal, that ours, the ones that this government sets up are not universal aids, we are doing nothing, we are satellites, stars... We only make initiatives that nowhere and at any time come to nothing, but they always come to us to copy those initiatives that you so criticize. You say to me, "Why don't you recognize that things aren't going well?" I am not going to tell you that everything is going well, but you too will be able to acknowledge that some things we – together this whole government and this Parliament – and this society are doing well, making a determined bet on the fight against the wage gap, making a determined fight for aid, making a determined fight for families. We have that Fourth Family Plan in which concrete measures with a specific budget appear, which appear in the budgets and in the extension of budgets, which you did not want to know anything about, which set as an example the eight weeks that you presented in the Madrid budget as something important when it comes to working in the area of co-responsibility and in the area of conciliation. And we who spend 16 weeks, not only for public service – the officials of the Basque institutions – but also for the workers of private companies, and you do not recognize that either. Really, Mrs Arana, we have many things to do, we have many things to improve but, of course, we have also done many things and we have done them among all. In this decree that we are amending, we take into account the needs of the different types of families, they will benefit more than 10,000 parents so that they can help reconciliation and co-responsibility. The measure has to offer this service free of charge to families with lower incomes. It has also put in place a service measure, which does not have to walk people – as you say – running from one side to the other. There is a bet from this Government with the free Haurreskolak that was discussed in that family monograph that we made in this Parliament, in which this Government, within the initiatives that the groups presented and that seemed to us to be appropriate initiatives to further advance on equality between men and women, we said that rents less than €18,000 were free. And so, it's already started. An initiative launched, Mrs Arana. That is not smoke, that are concrete initiatives that benefit the families of this country. We have a look at Europe when we design strategic planning. In this sense, the European Commission proposed in April 17 the Conciliation of Family and Professional Life initiative, which was one of the objectives and is the European pillar of social rights. On that basis, on 24 January the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted an interim agreement to work in the field of aid and conciliation. Under this rule, a European minimum standard was established which set the right to four months of parental leave, establishing that two months are not transferable between parents and introducing compensation for these two months at a level to be determined by the Member States. That is what the European Union, the European Commission, was saying. And in Euskadi we are talking about financial compensation equivalent to 100% of the regulatory base for the non-pregnant parent, which will enable the parental leave sponsored by Europe to be equal to maternity leave up to 16 weeks, Mrs Arana, in the public and private spheres. It is important to continue to work to facilitate the reconciliation of work, personal and family life, not only for justice with women, but also for the effectiveness of business. Equality is not a human rights issue; it is also a fundamental factor for good governance and for the human, social and economic development of peoples. And this is not merely a rhetorical statement, but a reality endorsed by the data, Mrs Arana. We have a lot of work to do, but we have also done a lot of work and we all have to move forward, Mrs Arana. And I look forward to your proposals, concrete proposals that will improve the equality between men and women that we have been working for a long time in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpology by Edurne García Urmbe, a member of the Podemos team to the president, in the Esscal Administration, and especially in the feminized offices of the strike." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u37	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari jauna, as you well know in Euskadi the wage gap is 14.13% if the European hourly earnings indicator is taken as a reference. But inequality widens by comparing the average annual earnings, as a Basque man earns 31,000 euros, compared to 23,000 of a woman. That's 7,000 euros less a year. That is, 24,4 %. The wage gap is the manifestation in remunerative terms of a problem of structural inequality between men and women, and reflects discrimination and inequalities affecting women in the labour market and throughout their lives. It is a fact, therefore, that the wage gap in Euskadi is evident and that we women charge less than men. Addressing this situation of discrimination is one of the central issues on the political agenda of our parliamentary group, and we have been working to promote different measures that can help to eliminate the wage gap. A year ago, in February 2018, at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, an agreement was reached unanimously in the Basque Parliament to intervene on the wage gap. In this agreement, we urged the Basque Government to present an action plan, so that in the period 2018-2020 the policies of the Department of Labour and Justice, in collaboration with the Department of Employment and Social Policy, for the elimination of the wage gap, will be strengthened, to also promote, together with the social actors, an in-depth debate and to develop measures that form part of an action plan, in addition to promoting awareness-raising and prevention campaigns, in order to inform and encourage women workers to report cases of pay inequality. At the same time, on the same dates, Congress voted in favour of a bill tabled by United-We can for equal pay. Starting with this initiative and coinciding with the day for equal pay, as it is today, the Basque Government announced on a drum and platter that a table was set up to address the wage gap. It should be noted that the bureau has so far held two meetings. Three trade unions were present at the first meeting and only two at the second meeting, so the meetings did not have any notable results in relation to the wage gap. It should also be remembered that the Basque Government reached an agreement with Confebask in April behind the backs of the trade unions and the space for dialogue between agents. That is why the trade unions as a whole decided to abandon the Social Dialogue Bureau and the thematic spaces that depended on it, including the table to address the wage gap. Therefore, the representation of women workers in this strategy has been intermittent, residual and in a context in which the dialogue between the actors was broken, due to the actions of the Basque Government. Despite the lack of dialogue or the low quality of the dialogue with the representation of women workers, a draft strategy was continued, and a series of days were held in the three capitals, inviting different associations and organizations. Surprisingly, in the list of the organizations convened and among which they finally participated, we are surprised by the presence of feminist organizations, which was almost non-existent. The Basque Government insists on promoting policies for equality, not counting the real participation of the social actors who have reflected more and better on the inequality and rights of women, which is nothing other than the feminist movement. So we have a great document on the wage gap, without the support of unions and workers and without the perspective of women organized in the feminist movement. Clearly, a serious mistake, Mr Urkullu. Because you have presented a strategy to eliminate the wage gap, an operational plan with four axes, 20 guidelines and 60 measures, which are very good on the role but which face reality directly. I'll explain some of your inconsistencies. The number of employees in the Basque Government shows a pay gap of 8.5 per cent. This is also a fact that you have facilitated yourself. We have not seen in the strategy that they presented not a single clear action that represents the Government's unbridled commitment to resolving the problem in its own home. Another issue is that the Basque Government provides conciliation aid to encourage women to leave the labour market and to take care of dependent children or relatives at home. It is irresponsible and totally inconsistent to affirm in the discourse that a new social organization of care is necessary and at the same time to put concrete measures and resources that promote the exit from the labour market and deepen the wage gap. All these elements are sufficient for us to question the chances that this strategy will have a real impact and not be another announcement, another resource to get medals and not change or solve anything at all. In general, Mr Urkullu, from Elkarrekin We can put among many questions all the announcements made by the Basque Government concerning equality or machist violence. It is clear, Mr Lehendakari, that neither in the wage gap reduction plan nor in the previous participatory process, nor in the debate at the wage gap table, with the participation of trade unions and Confebask, the Government continues to make no reference in any way to analyses and actions to eliminate the wage gap in its areas of responsibility as guarantor of the implementation of this policy in public administrations. There are no analyses or actions in the subcontracting of public administrations or in those fixed for public companies. All this is not only a reason for incoherence. Making a general plan that does not apply to the areas of responsibility itself is a least curious, if not absolutely premeditated, oblivion. What is shown is that you do not preach by example, do what I say but do not do what I do, the double morale of public administrations. They are dedicated to making feminist propaganda in front of the public while in everyday life they turn their backs on women who suffer an unacceptable wage gap. The Basque Government and you as lehendakari are responsible for not having a complete plan, since, among other absences or deficiencies, it does not include the scope of responsibility as an indirect employer of the Basque public administrations and does not only have a concrete strategy in relation to outsourced employment, using social clauses, for example, for the elimination of the wage gap in the areas of management own or in general of the Basque public administrations. However, it is said that the plan will establish social clauses for prioritizing companies with plans or measures to promote equality between men and women. However, the opposite is true. It opposes it and the fight to prevent it from coming forward, denying, for example, the introduction of implementing social clauses for equal pay in public procurement. At present, Mr Urkullu, there are different labour conflicts in Euskadi and working women on strike, affected by the wage gap and before which your Government, from interdepartmental coordination and political will, could help to resolve. One of the most paradigmatic, for which I asked him in the last full of control of 2018, is the labor conflict in the context of collective bargaining and the elaboration of brochures of the cleaning of judicial offices and police stations in Gipuzkoa. To this day, you continue on an indefinite full-time strike, and you remain committed to the constant expansion of minimum services and, recently, to the implementation of a special order to clean up everything with a clearly infringing objective of the right to strike. We also have the 5,000 workers of the residences and day centers in Gipuzkoa, who for the moment have held 18 strike days in 2018 and have already started with the strike of 2019. The outsourcing of the catering and cleaning services of Urduliz Hospital or the Bizkaia sectoral home help agreement, where they have precarious conditions and both the employers providing services and the municipalities holding them are stuck in immobilism, are two of the examples too – and we could give you more – of the open cases that you have regarding the wage gap. However, there are also other examples and closed conflicts in which the institutions have shown their position of opposition and blockade to the end. For example, Bizkaia residences for the sectoral collective agreement. We also have a direct-management school eaters strike. In the building and premises sector of public sub-contracts, steps have been taken towards wage equalization; the cleaning agreement of the Gipuzkoa Diputation; the sectoral cleaning agreement and offices and premises; and the cleaning agreement of offices and premises of the Donostia City Council. Despite the resistance opposition of the various public administrations, agreements are reached in the field of administration, but it must be recognized that they do not do so because there is a proactive position of their Government. And there is progress in narrowing the wage gap, but not because you are in favour of resolving this type of conflict, but because of the will of the workers. You, Mr Lehendakari, have a very good and very clear opportunity to act and to fight against the wage gap, not to talk about what you are going to do, but to do so, solving these conflicts and making effective and real the fight against inequality between women and men in the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that the questioner of the previous point is not present in the plenary room, but allow me to begin this intervention by asking that, in the same way as I answer questions or questions put to me, defended here in the gallery by people different from those who sign them in writing, I also delegate the answer to specific questions to the advisers and advisers of the Government who, by far the most concrete, because it is they and they who manage the issues for which I am asked, I can interpret what is best for me to do. In any case, I believe that the answers offered by the members - those of the Basque Government - are in any case always respectful. Mrs García, as I did on 14 December, when I asked about the wage gap in the cleaning sector, the measures that this Government has put in place to reduce the wage gap address three areas: inspection, mediation and structural response. And I begin by clarifying concepts with the aim of avoiding confusing public opinion, Mrs García. Sometimes we use the terms of wage discrimination and wage gap in an equivalent way, and it is not the same. Wage discrimination occurs when a woman who performs work of equal value as a man is paid differently in a company. This is an illegal and objectionable situation before the courts and the Labour Inspectorate. When we talk about the gender pay gap, we refer to the difference between what average men and women take as a collective, in a global way. The wage gap between women and men stems from two factors. On the one hand, a lower gross wage per hour worked as a result of women occupying less economically valued categories of work and, on the other hand, a lower working day, given that women have higher rates of partiality and temporaryity in their employment contracts. The wage gap, Mrs García, is therefore a complex problem of a structural nature and the result of the incidence of multiple causes. Not only do they affect economic factors, but above all sociocultural factors, which result in lower wages per hour worked and fewer hours spent on paid work by women. Having said that, Mrs García, our commitment. Our commitment to the effective equality of women and men in the work environment is clear. The Government programme explicitly sets out the commitment to combat wage discrimination and to promote effective equality between men and women in the work environment, commitment 10 of the Government programme. It also promotes economic and social measures to advance equal pay, promote wage transparency in enterprises and combat wage discrimination, commitment 146 of the same government programme. Consequently, with these commitments, on 27 November the Governing Council approved the strategy and operational plan of action to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi, the aim of which is for Euskadi to be placed among the European countries with the lowest wage inequality. We are aware that the consequences of this wage inequality lead to lower economic autonomy for women, higher poverty rates and a direct impact on social security contributions and, consequently, also on pensions. We know that direct wage discrimination between women and men for work of equal value is rare and would be illegal. We know, however, that the rules against wage discrimination on the basis of sex must be more effective in ensuring equal pay for work of equal value. This means that there are jobs to which an equivalent set of requirements corresponds and that they should therefore guarantee the same salary. These requirements may refer to equal abilities, knowledge, aptitude and initiative, equal physical, mental and emotional effort, equal responsibility or equal working conditions. In all cases indirect discrimination must be avoided. So, Mrs. Garcia, in order to get real equality and the line of commitment to the government program, we've put these four measures in motion. One, the Eukadinian pay-off strategy and the operational plan, we took it in the government Council of November 27. Two of us, the table on the 29th of January, built against the coasts of our pay. Three, we've started a specific crew, which will take care to advance on the real equality of women and men at the Society Table. Four, last Tuesday, the Council of Government accepted the month of 19, an institutional representation for the equality of wages, from the day of Europe, in favor of the equality of men and women. Today, the 22nd of February, we celebrate that day. These four measures, Mrs García, respond to the commitments contained in our programme and take a further step towards effective equality. One. Strategy and operational plan of action to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi, adopted at the Governing Council on 27 November, which includes 60 concrete measures and more than EUR 280 million distributed over four axes: reducing wage/hour inequality, reducing working time inequality, increasing education and social awareness and raising awareness and entrepreneurial and trade union commitment. Two. Interdepartmental bureau against the wage gap, set up on 29 January. It, together with Lehendakaritza and Emakunde, represents the departments of Employment and Social Policy, Labour and Justice, Public Governance and Self-Government, Economic Development and Infrastructure, Finance and Economics, and Education. Three. Specific working group at the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is responsible for advancing the effective equality of women and men in the field of labour relations. Next 28 February, next week, this working group will be set up to deal with trade union and business organisations, concrete measures aimed at promoting responsible reconciliation, the promotion and implementation of equality plans in companies, and the treatment of gender equality and the promotion of equal pay in collective bargaining. And four. The Governing Council, on 19 February, just before yesterday, on 19 February, adopted an institutional declaration in favour of equal pay on the occasion of the European Day for Equal Pay for Men and Women. This day is celebrated today, 22 February. Mrs García, we are committed and we are busy, we are acting to lay the groundwork for Euskadi to gradually reduce the wage gap and position itself as one of the countries with the lowest wage gap in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u41	Thank you. Well, I admire, Mr Urkullu, your ability to read, listing commitments and measures, but now we are going to take the head off the papers and look at the reality that is what, I understand, we have come to talk about. You have commented to me and mentioned that the Euskadi Labour Inspectorate has incorporated as a novelty this year specialized units in the three territories and that, headed by women, they will address the wage gap and gender inequality in the field of work, which is one of the measures that were presented a few days ago by the Labour Counsellor, Mrs San José. However, the budget to combat this fraud in recruitment does not reach the symbolic figure of 60,000 euros a year, nor is the alleged shock plan, which will cost 150,000 euros, credible. These amounts are clearly insufficient to increase the human resources needed to deal with fraud. We also understand that you talk about the Labour Inspectorate, and well, it gives us data but it is not enough. And besides, there is not as I said, sufficient budget allocation, and your budget allocation plan, it seems completely ridiculous to us. Talk about the plan, list... In addition, I repeat again, it has an amazing ability to read, which I deeply admire... But there is an absolute lack of concreteness. There is a lack of concrete implementation, for example, with regard to social clauses. And the theory is very nice but not everything is supported in the papers. We're seeing it, in labor conflicts. I'm talking to you about what's going on, is that I'm talking to you about workers' strikes, and you're talking to me about commitments and measures that are clearly not resolving real conflicts that are there, on the street. In addition, there is an issue on which you have not made any reference, which are the cases of your direct competence. And I wonder if Labour Inspectorate is involved in these processes. Furthermore, we would like to know what specific tasks and what areas, contracts, agreements or sectors will be involved. Whether they will intervene in employment subcontracted by public administrations on a priority basis. They will not intervene in those conflicts that directly affect them. The case of the clean-up of the judicial offices and police stations is clearly obvious. And we also understand that there is generally no political will. There is no political will to eliminate the wage gap. This Government could have a much clearer and firmer position before the employer with its actions, not just with its words. The commitments require actions and interventions to promote three positions in collective bargaining and its areas of competence. A strong rise in the minimum wage up to 1,200 euros a month we understand that it is not a whimsical figure, which is also the figure recommended by the European Social Charter. A wage rise to a level sufficient to restore the purchasing power lost by the crisis and that wage incomes recover weight and gain ground to the production of wealth. And a global wage rise, which occurs with a much higher increase in low wages, so that they get closer to higher wages. Low wages are always concentrated in feminized sectors. All this also applies to the outsourced areas of public administration. Women are the majority in a large number of subcontracted sectors, as women's jobs are still considered to be of lower value, easier to privatize and outsource. And we must put an end to this wage discrimination against women in these areas, and we could also promote a series of measures that her Government is not implementing. On March 8th, women will go back to the streets in a massive way, we are sure, to claim once more high and clear what the feminist movement and women demand every day every year in the workplace for decades: decent employment, enough precariousness, privatization, subcontracting and effective measures to combat the wage gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mrs García, I thank you for your admiration for my ability to read what may be plans or proposals. I hope that you will continue to admire me, so that may be the actions of this Government, as we have a road map and we will continue our path to narrow the wage gap. In any case, I like these speeches by Elkarrekin We can, in which it is always you, you, you, you, you, and there is never a us, us, us, us. And in us, we, I mean us as a party, to which some parliamentarian from his group referred yesterday, for example, to reach agreements also with the Basque Government. And in this regard, also in relation to the proposals you put forward or to the complaints or complaints you put forward, where was Elkarrekin's negotiating will left Can we in the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for this year 2019 in December last year? Look, I insist that I also hope you have admiration for my ability to put forward what a road map is, because I reiterate that the Government's commitment is firm. And these are the next concrete steps that we are going to take this first quarter, Mrs García. One, specific work inspection plan of equal pay. The Department of Labour and Justice presented this Wednesday a specific plan for the inspection of work of equal pay which directly affects two of the main causes generating the wage gap, wage discrimination and labour fraud, Mrs García. And this plan includes the creation of specific units and inspection in the three territories, as well as their training in explanatory aspects of the wage gap. This plan will intensify the inspection campaigns on equality plans and 100% of the business equality plans will be reviewed this year, Mrs García. Two, drawing up a study delimiting the concept of work of equal value to guarantee the principle of equal pay. The aim is to ensure the effectiveness of the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. Equal pay for work of equal value. This principle is laid down in the European Treaties and each state must ensure the application of the principle of equal pay between workers for the same work or for work of equal value. Three, adaptation of the virtual mailbox to combat labor fraud. The current virtual mailbox is being adapted to facilitate reporting of gender discrimination and pay gap situations. In this regard, we will also encourage measures from public procurement, from public procurement, to help reduce the wage gap. The Basque Government will shortly adopt two new initiatives. I am referring to the updating of the guide for gender mainstreaming in public procurement, public subsidies, concerts and social agreements. This guide under preparation incorporates a description, a legal analysis on models of social clauses that facilitate the equality of women and men in relation to working conditions in favour of equality. Secondly, I am referring to the adoption of a specific instruction for the incorporation of clauses for the equal pay of women and men and measures against the wage gap in public procurement. This instruction is addressed to the contracting bodies of the General Administration, the Institutional Administration and public sector entities. It offers guidance on award criteria and special conditions of implementation which can be incorporated into the specifications to promote equality between men and women. In short, these are the five steps which the Government will give immediately. One, we will accept the specific plan of inspecting the rate of payment at work. Two, we will make a study which will limit the concept of a work of equal value to the principle of the equality of rewards. Three, the mail box to fight the factory. Four, the genus view of public contracts, public subsidies, compacts, and social compacts, will increase the guidebook to insert into public contracts. And five, we will allow a specific example to obtain the equality of rewards, and the measures opposed to the wages of the public contract. These are the measures we have in place to address this problem. I reiterate our commitment to equal pay. We know that the present and future of this country will be promoted on the basis of equality between women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the president about the delay of regulating the economy of the genus." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments. Today, lehendakari, I ask you about a matter of great relevance and that you have not on few occasions dealt with in your numerous public appearances, as is the subject of gender-based violence. But today I am talking to you, Mr Lehendakari, about your commitment. Regrettably, an unfulfilled commitment. On 28 February 2017, the Government approved the legislative calendar for this legislature. It commits itself to forwarding the draft law on the eradication of violence against women before the end of 2018. At the end of this year, 2018, we have not heard of the passage of this bill and we have to say, Mr.Lehendakari, that after almost four months – because we are going to start March – we also have no news of the referral of this bill. I know, Mr Lehendakari, because it is something predictable, and that is sometimes good, that it is going to answer me that they are in it and that Decree 16/2018 of 19 October was adopted ordering the initiation of the procedure for the preparation of this preliminary draft law. But I have to tell you, as you will understand, you're a little late. We don't have any definite news that he'll be here soon either. And so, I ask you specifically: What is causing you to delay the regulation of such an important matter in which you have expressly committed yourself, such as the subject of gender-based violence?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u46	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Garrido, I'm not going to refer to what you've already done, so... As you are well aware, I will tell you that Emakunde is working to respond to the challenge of this Government and this Parliament, to strengthen prevention and response to violence against women, by putting forward a new policy proposal to which you have referred. I believe that the director of Emakunde gave an account of the situation and the progress made in the Committee on Equality, Human Rights and Cooperation in this Parliament. Therefore, I refer to this for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u49	Whatever you want, Mr Lehendakari, but a clearly unfulfilled commitment, like so many others. Look, you pointed out in your reply to the president of my party, Mr Alfonso Alonso, that while in the state you are in elections, you are working. Two things I want to say to you about this statement. First, these elections that you didn't want, that you didn't want, because you preferred a weak, agonistic government to a stable government like Mariano Rajoy's. And then, all day preaching stability, that stability that you've been falling to bits lately. That stability that he does not have here, and that leads him to have to devise plans B that he did not initially have on the move, in order to get rid of any other law of budgetary content. Because we must also remember, Mr Lehendakari, that you have been unable to approve the budgets for the 2019 financial year. And I refer to the facts, Mr Lehendakari. We're not talking about science fiction. 28 committed bills, four passed. We obviously do not count the budgets, nor do we count the last laws passed. Seven in processing, i.e. eleven, not even half, eleven, because there are only four approved and seven in processing of the 28 approved by the Governing Council, not even half. A government with real problems, Mr Lehendakari. Departments and advisors absolutely questioned, Mr. lehendakari. Education. The PISA reports, where you have the worst results compared to the rest of Spain. When you have the highest expense per student. What about concerted education? A conflict over its incapacity that comes from years, and because it does not adequately finance the concerted network, which takes 50% of Basque pupils. What are you going to tell me about OPE? From the OPE scandal, which we have already known this week that the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u50	Mrs Garrido, who was talking about genetic prosperity, puts it here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u51	Already, Madam President, I would like to highlight the inability of this Government and the problems that this Government has. That it is not worth looking so much for Spain, but that this lehendakari has to be dedicated to solving the problems that it has in the Basque Country, when it has a government that makes water in very specific matters, in Education, with scandals every day in the newspapers, not to say also in the matter of employment and Lanbide, counselor. Where's Lanbide's reform? Where is the reform of social assistance? Where are the support to the families to which you commit yourself two years in advance and do not arrive because of your own disability?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u52	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, I believe that in today's sitting, at least so far, it has been shown that it is you who are constantly looking at Spain and not here, at Euskadi. Look, with regard to the Basque People's Group and the relationship with the Basque Government. With regard to the reform of income guarantee income, because I am also the main protagonist. In June last year, your parliamentary group asked me not to debate, as another parliamentary group also asked me, your parliamentary group asked me not to debate in plenary when it was scheduled, and yesterday you proposed to delay it until after the municipal elections. Mrs Garrido, you have proposed delaying the reflection on the reform of the Income Guarantee Income until after this year's municipal and outlying elections. On 9 January, the work process of assessing quality standards in the care of women victims of violence was completed, a work that we have done in collaboration with several United Nations agencies and has served to identify the main challenges of the future. The time used, Mrs Garrido, despite not paying attention to me, has been the one needed to carry out quality work. This work has made it possible to improve the new regulatory proposal to be presented on the Emakunde Board of Directors on 6 March, and I hope that the representation of the People's Party will also be present. If so, we've finished taking care of the women who are victims of violence. We've made our first proposal with all the information we've received, and that work will be announced in the direction of the offering on March 6th. The international human rights law and the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe urge the public authorities to legislate on violence against women and to do so by reaffirming the link between inequality and violence against women, and this effort is in which we have been to identify the best legislative proposal we have to present to this House. Euskadi was a pioneer in this approach and since 2005 we have had a law that devotes a specific chapter to regulating measures, both for research, prevention and training, and for the care and protection of victims, thus reaffirming the link between discrimination against women and violence against women. We are aware of the obligations arising from the new European and State legislation, and therefore we have been working towards strengthening and extending our legislation, and you know very well, Mrs Garrido, that we have proposed what could be an alternative to a new law or an alternative to what is the amendment of the law, linking it with equality and inequality between men and women. We have solid foundations, we have a legal framework, we have a network of care resources, we have stable coordination mechanisms, we have experience in the design and implementation of equality plans, we have specialized technical staff and we have a trajectory in preventive work, and on these foundations, the preliminary draft law currently being drafted will be a step further and will strengthen the measures developed, both in the prevention and care of violence against women, and also in other aspects related to the equality of women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the staff of the American People of the Basque Society, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, the Chief of the Public and Autoberon Division, about the Public and Public Service of the People's Instigation of the Basque Dreams." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Erkoreka, two weeks ago I was very surprised, when I saw the press release that you provided after the meetings of the Governing Council on Tuesday, to find a statistical report from the Zuzenean Citizen Service, and I said, "Caray, if this is one of the relevant political issues that have been dealt with today in the Governing Council, the rest has to be a party, because, come on, I did not find it significant." But since you never give stitches without thread, I said, "I'm going to read the report to see what I find." And I found a very surprising fact – for which I congratulate you – that of the 887,878 questions that had been raised throughout the year, 95% of those who had come to the Zuzenean service gave a positive or very positive note regarding the service that they had obtained in the consultations that they had raised or in the procedures that they had initiated, but I found another fact that I was very concerned and that only 12.9% of those consultations carried out as a whole had been carried out in Basque, 2.6% in various languages and the rest in Spanish. And then I thought and I said, "Caray, this is Euskadi's average!". And then I focused even more and said, "Of those that have been done in offices, in the three offices of Zuzenean, 10% are done in Basque, the rest in Spanish." And then those hundreds or billions dedicated for years to euskadunizing officials alike turn out to have served nothing, because they cannot provide the service in euskera properly. I said this by thinking of the 108 or 110 staff members working in that service, and it can't be, because they do have the ability to work bilingually without any problems. So, perhaps the years or decades of imposition of euskera in the classrooms, the necessity, the obligation that all our students for more than 30 years study euskera or study in euskera entirely serves what?, so that only 10% of the population asks for such services in euskera? And perhaps Mr Erkoreka will publish this to us to announce a change of strategy in politics or in the money invested in the Basque region. And that's my question today. Do you consider that in this evolution – because it is also negative; it was not only 12.9%, but the previous year was 14.4 – we are going down in the interest of the citizens to address the administration in their procedures or in their consultations in Basque? Are you going to announce a policy change? Are you satisfied with the result achieved after billions invested in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arbulo, you say, "This is my question." Sorry, no, that's not your question. I can see that today the People's Party is asking funny questions, from which rabbits come out, surprising, isn't it? Good. Good. Look, I'm going to answer the question you asked. I have no problem, if you want to talk about the euskera and the policies of normalization of the use of euskera in the public administration, to respond specifically in the second part of the intervention to what you say. Indeed, on that point, on that day, in that Governing Council, in addition to this matter, there were items on the agenda that you wanted to frivolize and relativize. We already know in the attitude in which we are on the eve of the elections, but there were other points of the day that we also noticed in due course at the subsequent press conference. Having said that, the assessment with regard to statistics and information is positive, it is not a subjective assessment of this adviser. That is, they are objective data reports that result from the analysis study that has been made of the Zuzenean service, objectively. The satisfaction is full, the satisfaction has passed, since you talk about statistics and the evolution of statistics, has passed in the years in which there is an acceptable statistical information, from 2011 to 2018, from a satisfaction of 7.9% to 8.7%. I believe that evolution is positive, it is reasonable, in the three channels of communication, both in the face, in the telephone, and in the digital. The assessment is also positive with regard to all aspects of evaluation: staff providing information services, the organization of the service and the quality of the information provided. I believe that this is indisputable, it is undeniable and I will not go further. As people there are basically going to carry out efforts or gather information, 86% of people who have collected information or have done some management say that their management has been fruitful and positive. From there, excuse me, we are talking about a public service, where, in a particularly intense way, it is necessary to be scrupulous in designing the presence of personnel trained to serve in the two official languages of the Autonomous Community. We are not talking about a unit that is integrated into the administrative structure and that never has any contact with the Administration, but about a service designed and designed specifically to relate to the Public Administration which, among other things, must comply with the right of individuals to express themselves or to relate to the Public Administration in the language they freely choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u59	Mr Erkoreka, I have asked you about the evolution of statistics on this particular point, in the relationship between citizens and the administration in one or other of the two languages of the autonomous community, and I am concerned about the fall of the issues raised in Basque against the Spanish by citizens, nothing more. Moreover, I have begun to congratulate you on the good service and the good note you have received, Mr Erkoreka, and I believe that what I am transferring is precisely as a result of the data you provide me. What happens to evolution?, I ask, and you answer me that apples bring, I will answer it later... Of course, that's how you deny me the right of reply. Then I'll give you more data. Look, from the concern of the citizens about this matter, of the 211,000 documents that were processed in Spanish in the Foral Diputación de Álava in exercise 18 – the statistics of the Basque Government do not yet have them and I have to provide you with other administrations – 1,000 were in Basque, 2,500 bilingual, 211,000 were in Spanish. Of all the income declarations raised during the 18th campaign on returns of 17 in the Álava Provincial Council, 1 % are raised in Basque, 99% in Spanish. That is the diverse socio-linguistic reality referred to in the Statute of Autonomy in Article 6.2, Mr Erkoreka. I therefore urge you: do you consider the policies pursued so far to achieve these objectives valid? Or is it necessary to take a walk and change them? Because we all want that money dedicated to the Basque woman, to her protection. It is part of the cultural heritage, a fundamental part of our cultural heritage, but perhaps to what is being dedicated because it serves no purpose, because the effects are there, on the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mr. Erkorek is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I see, Mr Arbulo, that they are actually designing their electoral campaign and that in addition to articulating the environment to the idea that we have to end the Basque self-government, as they started yesterday in the Senate, they also want to end the Basque, through this formula so frequent, on the other hand, in the speech of the People's Party of "we all love the Basque, but we are absolutely against taking a single measure for its promotion and intensification." That is the traditional policy of the People's Party, always. On statistics, I have nothing to do with the organization of the Álava Foral Diputation. You have brought him here and that does not have anything to do with the question or the scope of responsibility of this adviser. But, look, with regard to the statistics you were referring to, in fact, year after year there are small saw teeth, but there is no substantial evolution. We are between 12% and 17%, in the last five years, of the consultations that take place in Basque. Do you want to tell me that since we do not exceed 20% we must eliminate the presence of the public care services of the person trained to provide services in both languages? Please, this is an aspect that does not have to be modified. This is perfectly designed, because we don't know what concentration is going to occur in public service offices at every moment of people who know or don't know Basque and want or don't want to be served in Basque. It's that you love Basque, but you don't want it to be used and you don't want to take promotional measures. That is their eternal problem, not from now on, secular, of all life. We see where the election campaign is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u62	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. And at this moment the whole meeting stops interrupted until half past twelve. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and twenty-eight. At twelve-thirty o'clock in the afternoon the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u63	Let's begin the tenth point: "Interpologies made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez, the member of the Basque Groups of the Worlds, made for the development of Economics, and also for the admission of the bill of law on the bearable motion." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, we are talking about sustainable mobility. And speaking of sustainable mobility, I have to say that on 18 October we voted against a motion that we tabled from the People's Group in this House. Four months later they sold as an original and novel idea of the government the Renovation Plan for diesel vehicles in the Basque Country. They copy it, but they're late and they're bad. Four months of delay in acting in the face of a critical situation for the automotive sector, and in Vitoria, at least in Mercedes, it has cost almost 1,000 jobs. Almost at the same time, the minister of the branch has also retreated. From what he said that the diesel has the counted days, he has gone back on all the measures that he proposed and that vetoed the diesel, something that we also asked for in our motion and that they also voted against. These measures in October would have avoided many of the unemployed that have been generated at this time, as well as a high percentage of the losses in the automotive sector. In that motion we tabled in October, in paragraph 4, we also urged the Basque Government to transmit to the citizens the reality, knowledge of new technologies, so that they can form their own criteria and contribute to sustainable mobility, both from an environmental, social and economic point of view. You, on September 24, 2018, informed us in this House of the Basque Government's declaration of commitment to sustainable mobility. He told us that sustainable mobility is cross-cutting, requiring the coordination of numerous tools and tools at the executive, policy and legislative levels. I'd say administrative, too. It referred to the various measures promoted by the Government and referred to the Sustainable Transport Master Plan, the 2030 energy strategy, the 2050 climate change strategy. He said: "We need an instrument that will more effectively contribute to the development of the mobility model of the future, more efficient and current." He referred to the Euskadi Sustainable Mobility Act, which is indeed included in the legislative timetable approved by the Basque Government and which, as set out in the government agreement, provided for its entry into this House in the fourth quarter of 2018. The reality is that the sustainable mobility bill has not reached this House or the Governing Council. From the People's Group, my colleague Mr Arbulo asked you on 31 October about the date of the order of commencement of the procedure of the sustainable mobility bill, and you replied on 27 November that that order was dated 20 November. What a coincidence, counselor! This circumstance certainly has its justification in that, given Mr Arbulo's professional zeal, he has advanced with the question and hence this coincidence, unless you give us another justification. It is clear that they have not fulfilled the commitment made by far, Madam Counsellor, and the procedure for initiating this project coincides precisely with the dates on which the deadline for the Government's commitment to hand over this project to this House expires. From 23 November 2018 to 21 December 2018, they have opened the deadline for consultation prior to the preparation of the preliminary draft, a procedure that is required. She told us on September 24 that the new law on sustainable mobility will be processed before the end of 2018. I would like to know what the adviser understands to do, because we also have different concepts. This new law provides for an investment of around €840 million by 2020. This is, of course, adding to almost 500 million of the comprehensive electric mobility plan, which is one of the pillars – or so announced – of this bill. Plan in which we are announced that by 2020, 5,000 green cars – I understand they are electric – will circulate on the Basque roads. I don't know if they're going to be able to get to the riojanas, cantabras or navarras, or it's another concept. They may be short-distance and therefore only run on Basque roads. With the investment planned for the High Speed Train, as 340 million added to those 840 that you told us was the livelihood of the law of sustainable mobility. Another challenge of this law also told us that it was the stake for intermodality in the stations, the connection between train, metro, tram or bicycle, and the improvement of the goods, the new multimodal platforms... But, Commissioner, these investments on the High Speed Train, the investments planned for the stations, for the underground are for everyone. On Wednesday you insisted that they work for a sustainable mobility model, but that they focus on their goal now that the political instability of the state does not bring with it delays in the Basque Y. And counselor, the delays are not from now on, the delays have been since June and you recognized that. We have already clarified this in your day and political instability has been chosen by you. In addition, I would like to remind you that with ease and premeditation, focusing all the focus on that decision resulting from a strategy of high flights, a strategy by which we have been lost 500 million euros of investment for the Basque Country, and a very important part are for the "And Basque" and for those interconnections that are the pillar of this law. I told him on another occasion and I tell him now, and we have to say this: they are responsible for this situation. You chose uncertainty, you had a budget with stability and you chose to fly it and this is the consequence. What they now say is that a delay is generated in an infrastructure as priority and necessary as the "And Basque" and all that, why has it been? It has simply been because of its bad head, its misguided ambition and it has caused these EUR 500 million that are essential to continue with this infrastructure that we consider to be a priority, since they have gone to the trash. In such a way that sustainable mobility, we understand, if these were the pillars of the law, because it is staggering. I said, Mrs Tapia, a few days ago, that the lack of rigour in communication generates instability. You said so by addressing the Government of Spain, but you can apply the story. You live by ads, because doing, doing, doing little. Of the four laws that he promised to bring to this House in this legislature, two were already done previously, they have come in the same way, the work that this legislature has brought to them has been zero. Then, the amendment of the development law, which still has two months to enter this House, we will see. And this, the law of sustainable mobility. All year 2018 announcing this law and there's nothing, counselor? Because it has been announced on repeated occasions and in repeated forums. And, Counsellor, this bill is going to require very important interinstitutional work for its elaboration, both with the municipalities and with the parliaments. This will have to be in coordination with the mobility plans for municipalities and parliaments, which will have something to say. And we are at a difficult time, because the corporations of the municipalities and the deputies are going to change in June. So what plan do you have to agree on a bill, a preliminary draft, that can come to this House in time for it to be passed in this legislature? Because I understand that you will continue with the will that this law is passed in this legislature. So, counselor, I ask you: What is the government's purpose in planning the time and work to draft the sustainable mobility bill?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mrs López de Ocariz, you said, we live in a society with constant changes that develop at high speed and also in the mobility sector, of course. It has changed our way of life but also the way of communicating and we are facing a transition to a model of mobility that may be unknown today and which we also need to analyse within this law. It is the work of the administrations, of course, of the Government, but also of the outlaws and municipalities, to facilitate this transition towards sustainable mobility, to implement actions that overcome the current situation, that overcome the reluctance to change in many administrations, in many private behaviours as well, and to this end, private society does, but also the public administration has to carry out its tasks. I reiterate our commitment as the Basque Government to have a model of sustainable mobility for the whole of Euskadi, taking into account principles, as always, environmental, social and economic. Because there are cross-cutting elements within what is the field of mobility, tools within the Basque Executive that allow it to develop in an appropriate way. Euskadi has also assumed the goal, has assumed the United Nations 2030 Agenda, as you certainly know, and we align public policies to develop a humanely sustainable and economically sustainable society. We need well-planned, well-executed essential services, sustainable growth and, of course, each and every one of the objectives set out in that agenda. And one of the main elements is the fight against climate change, and we don't forget, and we have to introduce it into each and every one of our actions, into every and every one of our laws, plans, programs, and so on. We want, of course, to establish policies that are inclusive, secure, environmentally and economically sustainable, and that we move forward, we move forward by eliminating diesel from transport, decarbonising what our economy is and decarbonising everything that our business is. That is why you have referred to a number of existing plans and programmes, and I do not want to forget them. They are the Master Plan for Sustainable Transport, already approved, the Strategic Plan for Road Safety, Safe and Sustainable Mobility, the Euskadi Energy Strategy as well, the Integral Plan for Electric Mobility and the Basque Strategy against Climate Change. They all have to incardinate their actions with this law, or this law with all those actions. We are awaiting the implementation of the law, it is true, we are behind schedule, yes, but we need to be able to make a qualitative leap with the implementation of this sustainable mobility law of Euskadi, which is in our schedule of laws, which is in the government agreement and which we need to be aware that we do indeed have an outstanding task. Euskadi does not start from scratch, we have many actions going on, but we have to find alternative actions, actions that allow us to alleviate those elements that socially, environmentally, economically make the model define in a different way and make us move to a different model. Every day in Europe we are seeing guidelines being put in place that are going to change our actions, and all of them we have to consider. But it also requires something not insignificant, which is the articulation of deadlines and actions that allow us to put in place among all an appropriate law, with which we all feel sufficiently comfortable: Administration, users, private agents and administrations at all levels. He said that the mobility law was planned to reach this House in December 2018 and that we have been delayed, it's true, I can't help but say, it's true. However, it is not because we have less commitment to our actions, to the implementation of the law, but precisely, by analysing well all the competences of each of the administrations, analyzing that also from Eudel, from the municipalities, new competences are being introduced and that there are more administrations affected, we have to be able to analyze a system that is effective from the point of view of transport, that guarantees economic and sustainable mobility but, above all, efficient and responding to all the needs, especially of the people, but also of goods. We have to order instruments, procedures and so on and, above all, avoid that great dissolution that occurred when this law was introduced in 2012, which somehow planned on the outside competencies and which caused many problems. There are reports of legality then issued by many administrations, by all those they were, in some way that were relevant in this case, and it is a scenario that we wanted to avoid. We have therefore taken longer because we have tried precisely to analyse all these reports and, consequently, to try to establish a law that has, at first, the maximum consensus and that allows us to recognize the competences of each and every one of the administrations, to recognize the role of the territorial transport authorities and the transport authority of Euskadi, and to try to reconcile those competences in the most appropriate way possible. And, in accordance with these principles, a law has already been established that has the following objectives: To set up an integrated, coordinated and unduplicity-free transport system caused by this diversity of administrations, which is not easy to implement, but at least we agree that we have to do so. Articulate an inter-administrative relationship system, organized with a method of structural planning that allows us to precisely that, to know what will be the relationship between all these administrations that at every moment feel affected by this law. Prioritise public and collective transport over private transport; use increasingly greener means of transport, with less polluting emissions and less greenhouse gas emissions, with less social cost. Promote a public system that is also close and optimal from the point of view of users, which we can economically sustain over time, which is not baladí. Incorporating rail networks as the structural element and that the rest of public transport is the one that feeds the rail network. Promote transport methods, transport models that take into account all the innovative effects, all the effects of innovation on themselves. To reduce the needs of private use, to promote a territorial balance that allows us to guarantee the same conditions to those who live in large cities or those who live in more scattered centres, and to provide an offer of public transport in that sense that is attractive, that is intermodal and that guarantees these conditions of modernity. What processing situation are we in right now? You said this, because of the change in the administrative procedure, it had to be done a month before a prior consultation, which took place between November 20 and December 20, 2018. On December 21, 2018, I signed the start order. Then the processing has begun. It is not finished, but processing is started, therefore. There's a lot of paperwork, but it's started. And from there, since the 21st of December when I signed the start order, it was automatically sent to all the members of the Euskadi Transport Authority – who also have to validate that law, have to analyze it – the documentation, so that at the meeting that we had in January, already on the agenda, it was discussed, that law was explained explicitly, in a comprehensive way and that a working table has been set up to analyze the law itself, within the Transport Authority. But, moreover, we have been making economic memory, in the form of a prior evaluation of gender impact, a legal report, which has allowed us precisely this Wednesday to have signed the approval order and which I hope that throughout today, once all the documentation has been translated into Basque – because it was done in Spanish, I must also remember at this time – it has been sent throughout today to this House after that signature of the approval order. And now we have all the administrative processing that was missing. Many reports still, analysis by other departments of the Basque Government itself, of the Ministry of Development – because it is also affected in terms of railway transport in the vicinity –, the deputies and other institutions that allow us to complete all the procedures. And if we go to the maximum time that all these administrations have and all the formalities, by November of this year 2019 it will be all over. If we are all fast enough and diligent enough, I may be able to enter this House earlier, but that is the situation of this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u68	Madam Counselor. I was also asking you, who hasn't answered me, about that funding plan they had for sustainable mobility 2018-2020, because that you here announced as an important leg for this law. Therefore, I would like to know in this situation how is it that you said the other day, that you are now in the objective that the political instability of the state does not bring us delays in the Basque "Y". And it is that part of this law you supported it on the development of all the infrastructure around the high-speed train, the intermodal stations. And we understand that such mobility of people and goods requires very important investments. So one thing is the text and another is what funding we're going to have for that law to be really effective. Because you make me very funny when you talk about instability, as if instability had fallen from heaven. The instability, as I have told you before, you have chosen it which, after nine months, now realizes what delays, delays there have been since June, which you have already recognized here. I think they have been, and I have to say so, clumsy in making decisions, clumsy in reacting and clumsy in recognizing that this bad decision has a negative impact on the Basques, with EUR 500 million in our hands and that they have now gone to the trash, because you left or separated, threw the Rajoy government and aligned with a government that was instability. And that's why we're in that situation, of course. You, on February 7, which was just when you announced the Renovation Plan, recognized the uncertainty of the automotive sector, which is part of mobility. He said the Basque economy is slowing down and the economic scenario is paralysing. I was talking about reducing, as a goal, emissions from technological neutrality, which I would like you to explain to me what you mean by technological neutrality. These uncertainties force us to be vigilant for the next 10 years and to make flexible planning. Yesterday a law on energy sustainability was passed in this House and, of course, of little flexibility. It is very demanding and the one who does not comply is punished. So, counselor, I see that you do a lot of press headlines, a lot of television, a lot of propaganda, but it's just the commitment you announce to the fact, and you can't see it. You now announce a scenario of uncertainty, which may be that all this is not like I'm announcing, which probably won't be, because if we don't have the funding, hard. A law that is based on a funding that we just threw into the trash. Counselor, I believe that to rule, apart from announcing, is to execute and be responsible. And you announce plans, you announce commitments, you talk to us about millions, you take the millions from here and you put them there, now I sum up what the Government of Spain is going to give me plus what I say I'm going to spend here, together and this is the support of the law. And it goes with the millions as if they were apples, from basket to basket, and there we are, there we are, yes, yes, but there we are. And what does it do in the end? We're talking about these two years and here we're standing, two years standing. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, parallel to the text, there must be economic programming, not just the text. Just like yesterday's Energy Sustainability Act. It speaks of financing, but funding is essential and therefore economic reports will have to be adjusted to reality. And, Mrs. Counsellor, in addition to announcements, television news, moving millions from one side to another, we have to get to work and run. And, really, until today, after two years, its result is quite weak, not to say almost nil. We'll see from now on, but to this day almost zero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u69	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u70	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, I must move millions like apples, you said. I'd like that. But what you do is mix pears and apples. Let's see, when I told you that we signed the approval order, it's because the economic memory is made. Any law must bring it. So you don't discover the world I think to anyone in this House when you say that a law must have an economic memory, anyway. We know that. And precisely the order of approval is signed when the economic memory exists, we will not discover anything. You mix me with the electric mobility plan, which had a budget, a financing plan. No, no, This law is a law whose approval order has been signed, which bears the objectives it has, which bears an economic memory... And you mix everything you think of, the Renew Plan... Technological neutrality, I can explain, no problem. Technological neutrality means not favouring anyone, but establishing certain elements in terms of compliance with CO emissions. 2 and of polluting emissions and not favouring any of them, but establishing neutrality. But, well, I can explain it more slowly. But, forgive me for saying, look, my daughters, that they won't like to be quoted today, but they often say sometimes when someone doesn't know what to do, they say, "These have gathered in the morning." And I believe that the Group of the People's Party met this morning to have a cup of coffee before coming to this House and has agreed to a message. And the message I was playing today, one after another, and it's Mr. Semper's, well, I'm looking forward to hearing it from him too, because I'm sure he'll say it, today's message is "You were wrong." I mean, well, really, you guys are a little tired. But you can repeat it whenever you want. It's okay. What needs to be done is to keep working. And if you want to work for this country, besides looking at Madrid, which is what you are doing constantly, well because you are working for this country, make concrete proposals and let us all work in this House, which is where we are working, in what we are talking about, in the budgets we are talking about and in the law that has to be passed in this House. So, let's go, once the law comes, work it from here. I recommend that we really focus on this House and not on another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the Congress of the Otero Gaboro team assembled to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Seating Department of Economics, about the introduction of the vehicles to the "Mingerry." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u72	Yes, good noon to all. Mrs. Tapia, I'm a little disappointed with you today. Four months ago, the agreement took a half-way, because of the diesel. Bertan, eta EAJ tematu zelako, hau txertatu zen: "Parliament urges administrations to take measures to help the automotive and job maintenance sector evolve, including renewal plans and other measures, to speed up the introduction of alternative fuel vehicles". Vehicles with alternative fuels. Zure Taldeak Bultzatuta. Four months later, you've announced a review that will encourage the purchase of new gasoline and gas oil cars in practice. Please make an attempt to justify this plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u73	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u74	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, the attempt is very simple. On the one hand, when everybody here in public here, it was not, at the Poptular Party, that we all agreed to make an attempt on the public administration, in order to carry it on. But at the same time, when a transition is to be made from one to the other, this transition must be made in a moderate manner, and also in a ordered manner. Why have we started this Renove Plan, where the technology of neutralism is used, that is, all of them? For indeed, in the last three months, if we see the change, what kind of cars have been bought in the whole Spanish state, but also in Eukadin, two things have happened. On the one hand, few new cars have been bought, some of them have been. On the other hand, those who have been bought are many secondhands, diesels and gasolines, especially the gasoline ones. And in this case, if you consider what kind of fluids and how the change of fluids has been, the increase has been, the upward. Then and CO 2 and we have poured out more accounts because we have done so. So our Renove Plan has thought, on the one hand, that what we have to get from the road is to get old cars out of the heads of the accounts, to get gas, to get gas and push the cars of another kind, electric, electrical, incomprehensible, hybrid, all the ones that are used through gas. And another thing, that is, socially, is important to the people who have least money, or those who have least money, so that they may have the power to make their own car less fluid. And this is, as it were, the reason why the end and plan of the plan should be put into action; To be socially, economically, and as best suited as possible to environmental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u76	Mrs Tapia, I should like to put aside the part of the environmental debate. I don't think he can stand the slightest analysis. And I leave for another day the debate as to whether everyone's money has to subsidize private vehicles, which is quite questionable. And I say to him: his plan is testimonyal. Last year, 42,000 vehicles were sold. You put 5 million euros or apples, whatever. As much as it goes for 2,500, it doesn't go for 6 % of annual sales. Helping for a year would amount to 100 million euros and that is not going to happen, because their budget, theirs and that of the EVE are being broken down. I add, your plan is fleeting. Last year, an average of 116 vehicles were sold a day, and this is for 2,500 vehicles. So at that rate the plan can last about 20 days, which are going to be less, because people are going to pile up, it's going to be the one-week plan, of the five headlines. Besides, his plan is regressive. Does it seem normal for you to launch a consumer aid plan and give the same dough to those who earn 15,000 as to those who earn 70,000 euros a year? Not us. If this were little, your plan is uncoordinated. You said that the aid was going to be compatible with others, and two days later the PSOE in Madrid takes out the Alternative Vehicle Move Plan and Article 14 says, literally: "The subsidies regulated in this royal decree will not be compatible with other subsidies or aids." One of two, or you said it was going to be cumulative without knowing what the government was going to pull out of the state, which tells us about uncoordination, to make it look at it, being socialists in both governments, or, if they knew, they just lied to us, which is even worse. For this reason, its plan does not encourage alternative mobility, as approved by this Parliament. You give up to 3,000 euros for the purchase of electric vehicle. Madrid reaches 6,500, and they are not accumulative. Anyone who wants an electric car will take care of the Madrid plan. So with your plan all or almost all of the subsidies are going to go for conventional vehicles. And to end it, everything is being chaotic. You announced that the plan would be launched in April, at the end of March. The dealers had to come and tell them that they were going to cause a breakdown in the sales in February and March, and they have advanced it a month. But we still don't have the plan. A lot of haste has been noticed, because the target was another. The goal is another and perhaps they will succeed, because there will be a certain amount of sales and, oh, by chance!, just before the election campaign there will be a surge of sales in statistics, inflated fleetingly with everyone's money. This is to play short instead of looking for solutions that really boost the evolution of the sector, as Parliament called for with the support of its group less than four months ago. In other words, Mrs. Tapia, you're doing something very ugly. He is launching an electoral pre-campaign with public money, playing with the illusion and need of the people, most of whom will not get the plan. That in my village is called demagogy. So, to get what you want, I suggest you go under with those apples. –millions – and I'm handing out coins, because it's good for the same thing, it costs us less and it's more ecological.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u78	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I don't quite understand you, because, on the one hand, you told me I've put little money in the sum, and at the same time you're telling me that it's not proper to give public money to private people. So what is it? Because I don't have much money or shouldn't give it to the privates? I didn't quite understand what you wanted to say. Or should I put more on it? Or shouldn't I give it to the private ones? I don't know, I really hesitated. Anyway, I have to tell you something. In this case, Renove's plans and plans for my own efficiency are not today, and in the last six years, only to remember, 100 million was given to industry and private people. And privates were given to reopen the windows, to re-open the boilers... Several themes have been set up in progress to promote reassignable energy. In this case, five million. If you tell me it's a campaign... Maybe if I tell you that the whole plan is 19 in general, it'll be more. But should I do what I do every year, or shouldn't I? Do we have to encourage Renove's plans and neurostic efficiency or not? As it agrees with the law yesterday and our plan, we will continue to make use of the maximum efficiency, the reorganization of a general energy plan, which will be able to do so in so many points, the environment... When you like, we'll discuss it... by giving help to the most socially needed, and also by encouraging electrical motion, of course, among all the others. And I'm sorry, you'll have to explain it to me or not, more money or no private money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Joseph Ramone Becerlo Carolo, together with the law enforcement staff of Podemos to the head of Economics and Sub-Seating Departments, about Renove Plan, which was set up for the vehicles. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, you present the mentioned Renove Plana last week and my question is: Is this the plan we need to make the power transition?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u81	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u82	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, of course, there must be a lot of things on the table that can make the neurotic transition. In the meantime, we accepted the law yesterday, but we have to put so many things on it. But this is involved, and, as I have already remarked, it is not the same as that which is loose, but the money which we apply to the neurogentic efficiency, the money which is increased every year from the Basque Power Organization, in order to improve mobileness and decrease fluids, and at the same time even to send a reassuring message to the automoction attorney. It's all necessary, it's not just this, but this is part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u84	Well, this plan, in order to be part of the transition, has to encourage the transition, and it will not. Last June, you were the ones who introduced the Eltechtric Mollation plan. We were critical on this plan, but, well, we agreed. But today we see that this plan is useless. And my question is: Why do you take plans so you don't have to fill them up later? And do you have a direction on this subject? Because Mr. Otero has mentioned that your Renove Plan will only be to buy vehicles that use gas oil. We have an Integral Electric Mobility Plan, it has been approved by your Government, it has not been approved by the opposition, it has not been approved by this group, but it is a necessary plan. In this plan, the first measure appears in the action plan: to encourage the acquisition and use of electric vehicles in the Basque Country. And this Renovation Plan is not going to encourage the acquisition of a single electric vehicle, Mr Otero said. That plan sets out as our target for 2020, that is, next year, 4,800 electric vehicles. Right now we have 1,100 on the streets. With the 2,300 vehicles of this Plan Renove you could reach that goal, but not one is going to be sold alone. Another objective of this comprehensive plan was for Basque public administrations to carry out exemplary actions for the use of the electric vehicle. The Basque Government has just bought several gas, non-electric, gas vehicles. What are you playing at? Not to fulfill your own plan? Mr. Otero said his plan is uncoordinated. I think it has nothing uncoordinated, it is perfectly coordinated with a part of the car industry, that part of the car industry for which the energy transition is a threat and not an opportunity. And that part of the car industry has two options in the face of the coming changes: to adapt or to suffer those inevitable changes. The abandonment of fossil energies is beginning to be a fact. If you want to help Mercedes, help them sell their electric vehicles, not relieve the stock of diesel vehicles that they can't sell in other countries anymore. Note that the Mercedes exports 80% of its vehicles, but that electric vehicles can be used here, and with that plan that you have just presented will not be sold even one. The other day the representative of the automotive cluster said that we need to be careful with electric vehicles, because we have a dependency on Asian batteries. What, we don't have dependence on Middle East oil? We're going to be dependent on one way or another, the thing is how we do this, how we plan it. And we can't keep giving blind sticks. We play a lot, we have to plan the transition of the car industry, we have to do it right, we have to plan the changes. That is to govern and what you are doing with this Renovation Plan is to act on the dictates of a part of the industry and to tow the cyclical circumstances of every moment. We cannot cope with the transition of this country's petrochemical and automotive industries with Renove plans, which neither serve the country's energy transition nor serve to help this industry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u86	Mr Becerra, the Electric Mobility Plan has many points, many jobs to do and, among them, there are private vehicles, but there is also the bet that is made, yesterday in the law, for the acquisition of electric and non-polluting vehicles. Also in public transport, with the start of the smart electric bus line in Gasteiz and Donostia. We also work on the subject of batteries from both the CIC Energiagune and CIDETEC. And with the Mobil Center in Gipuzkoa, we are also working on the battery elements that are going to be essential for that transition. But we also work with gas, because we have to be aware that, for example, in the Balearic Islands, you will probably set it as an example, it is used or already banned the use of any private vehicle that is not electric, but nothing is said about the transport of goods that is made island to island and that pollutes each of those ships much more than all the vehicles that walk on each of the islands. Then we also have to work on maritime transport and gas transport in maritime transport, and we are also working there. But it is that the energy transition is made with many elements and not just with the private vehicle, and there is a perfectly established plan. In the automotive sector, we are working with the whole sector, with the whole cluster. And, I insist, not only private vehicle, but also public transport vehicle, and considering, moreover, that these industries, as you say, have to make an orderly transition. And that is precisely why a partnership agreement has also been signed, for example, with the Gestamp company. For what? To develop all R+D+i associated with lighter vehicles and electrification of vehicles here in Euskadi. Then we are working in all areas, in each and every one, and that transition has to be done in an orderly manner. You have said that, and I fully agree. However, we also need to be aware that, for example, Mayor Manuela Carmena, who does a lot of great things and has established a number of limitations for vehicles to enter Madrid, has not said that they enter only electric vehicles, but that they enter those who have a rating that determines how many emissions of greenhouse gases, i.e. CO 2 , and how many pollutant emissions they have. Therefore, a diesel vehicle and a petrol vehicle with a green label can also enter Madrid. Then we have to make that transition carefully, moving from the situation we currently have towards a less polluting and less charred, which is what we are talking about. And that is done by establishing different types of performances and not just one. And then again I talk about what it is like to have a system in which we are working in an orderly way and that, in addition, it is with technological neutrality that any of the technologies that are little or nothing polluting are used to get to that totally decarbonized scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Gasmper Basque Groups of Pogula, made to the head physician of Economics and Sub-Sestagues, about the future of Donostian Airport." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u88	Eguerdi on guztioi, good morning to all and everyone. Madam Counsellor, I understand that it is a bit late to come here on Fridays to respond to the opposition, which gives us to ask what we want, not what you want. This is what the opposition has, that we exercise our work as such, because we need to know what is happening in Euskadi and control its management. I want to ask you, counselor, about something I understand that bothers you or about what you don't want to talk about, which is the airport of San Sebastian. You participate in a public entity called Ortzibia, whose social purpose is the promotion of San Sebastián airport. Given the results in Ortzibia's task to promote San Sebastián airport and also in comparative terms, it does not seem that Ortzibia is producing very good results. What I want to ask you, Counselor, is what you are doing in Ortzibia and if you have already thought about it, because by promoting you can't help the airport, neither in relation to other airports, you have thought about stopping to promote to see if the airport takes off and has a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u90	Eskerrik asko, president andrea Mr Semper, I don't care the least about coming and responding to everything you think is appropriate. There are some questions that will be more complicated and others simpler, but I have no inconvenience in answering any of them. Now, I am very drawn to the attention that, indeed, since I am responsible for Infrastructure, not in the previous legislature, in this, the People's Party and you in person have never been concerned, either in full, in commission or in request for information, never at anything at Donostia-San Sebastián airport. Yes, but Mrs. Larraitz Ugarte. Mr Becerra has also been interested. You, as a group, never and you, in person, never. Now, it occurred to him – and I say it occurred – the last control session. I was asking Mr. lehendakari a question, he looked at me and said, "Look, I'm going to ask at the airport next time. Now that I'm a candidate, I'm going to ask." For Ortzibia does some of the actions that, of course, being an airport of general interest, should do the State but does not, and it is dedicated to making the passengers grow, to solving some problems that exist with the track and, of course, it is producing very good results. Institutional collaboration is, of course, at the best in Ortzibia right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u92	I understand, Counselor, that you like to talk about competition. But let me tell you something about incompetence. Your Government, your Government, rejects the extension of the runway, as you well know. His party, the party supporting his Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, together with the Socialist Party, are against the expansion of the San Sebastián airport track. This year there are also flights to London and Palma. Ortzibia's failure. Flights to Madrid are constantly diverted, mainly those operating Vueling are diverted to Bilbao. Flight frequencies in Madrid are dropping. What's going on? What are they doing around here? What do shipwrecks do, for example? What's Noain Airport doing? Noain airport, do you know which frequencies you have incorporated and which destinations you have incorporated? Extraordinary. Do you know that Biarritz airport has been closed, is going to be closed for a month, something more than a month for repair on the runway? Or have you done anything to catch those flights, for example, to Paris, from Hondarribia Airport? San Sebastian airport in Hondarribia? Counselor, we're talking about flagrant incompetence. I'd love, as a citizen, to come here and tell you how good everything is. Look, do you know how much a flight costs, how much a ticket back and forth to Madrid, for example, from San Sebastián? You've been a deputy. It is true that national MPs, who use the airport of San Sebastian, do not, of course, pay the ticket. But it is that the small entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs, the citizens who want to use that airport, pay a minimum of 400, 500, 600 euros to go and return to Madrid. I understand that for the national deputies of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, who travel a lot to Madrid, the same ones who are opposed to expanding the airport track, as it does not cost them their pocket, well, so we can keep pulling. This is a serious reality, and it is important. Look, counselor, I think we have to bet on the infrastructure of the Basque Country. And the airport is one of them and I've been demonstrating it along my political path. I do not have to report here now on this; there are the sitting papers and my trajectory in this very House. I've discussed this in countless opportunities and occasions. Really, a lot of times, and I'm gonna keep doing it. And I will continue to demand that you take on your responsibilities, that you take on your commitment, because you have, and a lot. Therefore, do not worry so much about the competencies, do and exercise those that you have correctly, with determination, and leave and allow others not to call them incompetent in management. Because, besides, there is one thing and let me, counselor, and this you will not like, but I believe it deeply. You and I, and many others, but you and I know that if this airport, if this airport had been in Bilbao, this airport would be viable and, of course, its attitude would not be the same as that expressed here by being in San Sebastian. We know this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u93	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u94	Mr. Semper. Indeed, on Wednesday you launched your campaign saying that you wanted to focus on San Sebastián and did not want to be a branch of Madrid. And his party boosted his campaign the same day. He boosted the campaign with the motion in the Senate, saying no to those transfers. You that same night, by the way, talk about those are fringes. Well, if they're fringes, then make the transfer. Because he was setting me the example of Biarritz. I would like, I would like to be like Biarritz Airport, of course, which has absolutely decentralized management and in the hands of local institutions, and you know it as well as I do. Are you prepared for your party to approve the transfer of airports, and for airport management, exactly like Biarritz, to be in Euskadi? Are you willing? Because it's a bow, it's a bow. It's nothing very important. So, let's bring it here, we manage it, we manage it in a different way, because of course, who exercises the competition, because it's in the general interest, only talks about expanding the track. But what happened to keep that airport running? That we had to work from Ortzibia to declare it exceptional. And he had to declare, against his opinion, when they were in Madrid ruling. But that declaration of exceptionality has fallen, and another alternative has had to be sought. Who's been looking for her? You when you were ruling in Madrid? No, you had to search from Ortzibia, prepare all the corresponding reports, without any competition and without any capacity, according to you. Prepare all the reports, take them to Madrid, take them to AENA, take them to EASA, so that it was established that it was possible and the work was carried out. And he got it. Why are some flights diverted? Because there is no adequate guidance system. And it has also had to make Ortzibia the relevant report, work it out, prove that it is valid and that a new system is put in place so that these planes can land and take off in good condition. Therefore, Mr Semper, I really understand that it is very difficult for you to come here, with this situation, to defend an airport that is your competence, but no, but well... [[Berber]] ...State competence for a very long time, and you speak in that key. Therefore, Ortzibia has done a great deal of what it did not have to do, and also successfully. Allow that bow to come to Euskadi, and we can manage it like Biarritz Airport. And probably the result will be absolutely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interadectition, myria Kortja, the members of the staff assembled together to the Chief of Empulgus and Political Society, the state of residences for the older men of the Basque Autonomia of the Erdi. " Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief physician, good noon to all. This Monday the strike has begun, at the center of the Gipure's old men's headquarters, another thing isn't new. The long struggle of the workers of the Biscay is still reflected. Even the professionals who work at the house services have struck the strike. Unfortunately, they're becoming accustomed to conflicts in the centers of the age and in general under the conditions of the social professionals. It's been 10 years since the Social Services Act had been approved, two years ago, since the Euskal System Department of Social Services had been introduced in force, but unfortunately today's situation is not at all acceptable. The law hasn't had a course to be. The Norwegian architecture of the law has hardly been developed, and our little architecture has been somewhat obsolete. The order of residence for people of the age we are speaking of is, for instance, of the former century. Our society is getting old, and in growing older, even the states of dependence increase, and they are becoming more and more serious, and frequently connected with chronic diseases. And that requires a higher level of surveillance. And besides, he's becoming more and more familiar to meet people who don't care for his care. But in this country where there is so much talk of growing old, the decree which will restore the higher and adequate grades of care has not been updated. This decree has not been updated, nor has it been determined by a decree, but by the ration of the workers, and other important matters belonging to the personal; a functional and material condition, whether professional profiles or centers, which must conform to. Or has not been properly defined the social character of these dwellings. You know, the fun didn't do your job, and then, in the quality of service, and in the degree of attention, there are gaps and deficiencies of structure. According to countries, very different criteria are being handled, and the present conditions of working workers working in the field of social services are impossible to guarantee their physical attention. This state of things has serious consequences, both for old men and for their relations, and of course in the lives of all those professionals who work in those dwellings. There are thousands of women who work in those dwellings. It is one of the centres of the mansions which are purely feminised and precocious. The devaration of the custody of elderly persons in the other Watching worlds is remarkable in the conditions of the work of those dwellings, is an underrated and optic sector. Our choice is on the side of public services which will allow the surveillance to be placed in the centre. And the Basque Country believes that the professionals of social services are indispensable to a decent condition of work to offer public services. And even when we've been in the government and have been in opposition, we've had first care and commitment. This is the whole process of modification in the Giupula Aldudian Forum, by encouraging Kabi, and above all by an active attitude to improve the conditions of women in the housing centers, by establishing conditions and providing money. And again and again we have brought the subject to this legislature. In the month of June 2016, there was a new one, protected by the Jeltgrid Party and the PSE, to update those decrees in 2016, but it didn't work. After this the senate began, and was asked to obey again what had been agreed upon, and in February 2017, it was accepted unanimously, in this case, to update these decrees and not to be fulfilled. And besides, it was then that the public authorities were asked to go on and on and on and on to be a proactive position in public contracts. He didn't do that either. And it's been two years, the needs have gone up, it's giving important work conflicts, we've got obvious deficiencies and problems, a neglected and pre-premeditated sector, and it's not what this lawyer wants. And as far as you'd like to see the situation, chief of the Artola generouss, it's not acceptable. Yesterday, El Diario Vasco collected the opinion of some relatives of residents in the residences in Gipuzkoa and commented that the residences do not have enough staff, which is not only a topic of the strike, that the people working in those residences are suffocated, they said. They have 92 minutes, 92 minutes of 24 hours is the time devoted to a person served in a center in Gipuzkoa. 92 minutes to lift, clean, dress, help breakfast, eat, dine, change diapers, walk, lie down. 92 minutes for people with large dependencies. But it's not a Gipuzkoa problem. This Parliament has also received the association of relatives of persons cared for in the residences of Bizkaia, Babestu. We were asked what their experience was in these centers. In August, SATSE denounced poor health in Bizkaia residences, and yesterday SATSE also denounced the burden of work in the Alavese residences due to the increase in people with high levels of dependency. And they reported that some homes do not offer permanent nursing care 24 hours a day during the year. And they put the case of the residence of Txagorritxu, in which there is only one nurse to care for 150 people in the night shift. And the struggles of labor are alive too. There are thousands of women working on this business. Those who do a very hard physical work, who are not able to arrive without a proper rest, without proper preparation in some cases, without proper resources, without having been reduced to sell their injuries as a professional disease, disdained, and their cheapness. And I dare say this puts us all before two questions as worthy people: how we want to be looked after, and of course who will take care of us. And, really, I don't know whether you're aware of the importance of the watch, or whether you don't want to accept it. As far as the custody model is concerned, it doesn't seem to be among your priorities. The statement has not been updated, we have a pre-responsible project on the table, but it doesn't seem to fix much. You see, Chief Artolallier, the ratios marked in this new decree are already so far surpassed in many places, and yet the difficulties are manifest. The Minimum Services Decree approved by the Department of Labour and Justice in connection with the Gipuzkoa strike establishes percentages that put those ratios set out in the Minimum Services Decree above those that mark the current decree and most likely above those that mark the new decree. But it's not just that. There's no question that the decree isn't being updated. It's your business to see whether things are done properly or not, and even in that you're absent. He has reviewed the claims. Even the Gipuese Fordun has been watching the strike line. But what has the inspector done from your section, for example, about these serious accusations made by SATSE or Protecting the Society? On the other hand, this government, which says that it has a special employment and a commitment to equality, has something to say to this first sector, which is highly qualified and highly qualified? What does this government have to say about this conflict? Here too, looking sideways, see if the marjada passes without making too much of her hair. A government can't stand in front of this situation, Mrs. Artola generous, in a supposed neutrality. The package cannot be drained, Mrs Artolazabal, when the rights to care for people are not being guaranteed in situations of lack of protection and when equality is not guaranteed. This is the B face of your "Euskadi lagunkoia", and you have to make it look at it. To look aside is to defend the weakening of public services in the care-works, and to defend their commercialization is to defend the prerogative. In front of this situation, with the absence of equality, without social services, you can't neutralize. We're all going to need custody at some point in life, and we have a chance to organize worthy guards in a collective fashion, and now we have the right time for that. So, Chief Artolalli, I'd like to ask you what you're up to in front of all this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u98	Good morning again. In the Social Services Act, Mrs Kortajarena, it is defined as you well know, the competitive structure that Euskadi's public social services must have. Thus, the law places primary care services under the jurisdiction of the municipalities, with the exception of teleassistance, and secondary care falls under the responsibility of the courts. The Basque Government therefore assumes the functions of coordinating, planning and legislating, as well as the provision of the services considered as part of its direct action. You refer to the employment situation in residences, and you know very well that the labour relations between persons working in centres and residences are the responsibility of companies and representatives of workers. It is a delicate issue since a strike, protest or action that alters the lives of residents directly affects a very vulnerable group, such as that of the elderly cared for there and their families. Not only those responsible for the institution, but society as a whole must be concerned about the situation of those persons who are cared for there and also about the working conditions of those who care for them. It is clear that those responsible for the Parliament are concerned about what these strikes involve in the care centres for the elderly. It is done by the current outsiders and other corporations have done so years ago as well. The role of the Chamber in the negotiation of a territorial agreement between trade unions and companies is to enable such dialogue to be achieved and to ensure services to care for those elderly people who are particularly vulnerable. But as far as we are concerned, in May 2017 we referred to this House the draft decree of residential centers for the elderly. This standard regulates the material, functional and personal requirements to be met by the residential centres for the elderly in Euskadi, in addition to establishing the conditions for their authorization of operation, accreditation and approval. On 30 October 2015, the Basque Social Services Service and Service Portfolio Decree entered into force, and the annex on residential centres for the elderly defines the service and objectives, as well as the benefits that include the delimitation of the target population and the specification of the remaining access requirements, establishing what is subject to co-payment. Within this legal framework, through the draft decree, it is intended to regulate residential centres for older persons, with the aim of guaranteeing persons who need them the right to receive quality residential care services. This draft decree has been drawn up in close collaboration with the technical staff of the three outlaws, with Eudel, with the social entities, with the unions, and we have set ourselves as basic objectives for this decree, four points. To ensure, first, that users are provided with care and personal assistance to carry out the activities of daily life; to maintain their personal autonomy and to encourage personal development and skills acquisition and to prevent their deterioration. Secondly, that users develop, with the necessary support, activities aimed at maintaining and participating in their relations with the community environment. Thirdly, that users expand relations with the family and with other residents or persons outside the residential environment and participate in the life of the centre. And finally, to promote your sense of security. I believe that, from the perspective of an older person or his or her family, they are fundamental basic minimums that should guide the development of the activity and definition of each residential service. The decree not only defines the physical or structural issues that a residential centre for older persons must have. There is also a model of care to be given in the same, which is particularly relevant. Thus, the model of care applicable at the centre will have the following basic components: comprehensive and person-centred care, the model of management, evaluation and continuous improvement of quality based on the guarantee of rights. It was stated in my previous speech to Mrs Arana, for the Basque Government, that it is a priority for people to enjoy the maximum well-being, the elderly in active and empowered ageing, and the whole of society to reconcile their personal, family and working lives, and always, all of this, on an equal footing. The Deputy Councillor for Social Policy of the Department of Employment and Social Policy had already been working on amending the regulations of the decree on residential services for the elderly since the last legislature. Many intense working days were developed and, after a long period of negotiations, the procedure for drawing up the draft decree began in May 2017. I have previously transferred to this House its basic structure and content. In June 2017, the public consultation procedure was initiated, prior to the drafting of the decree. This new procedure, which improves the participation of citizens in the rules procedure, derives from the common administrative procedure of public administrations. After the deadline, 20 contributions were received and the project was previously approved by the Order of 28 July 2017. The explanatory, economic and subsequent memorandums were drafted and the mandatory report, the legal report of the Directorate of Services, was issued. The draft decree was amended to update the reference legislation on data protection and, at this time, the draft decree is being considered by the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission, by the COJUA, which will have to deliver an opinion within a maximum of two months, and this is the last time it has been processed. After incorporating into the draft decree any amendments that follow the opinion issued by COJUA, it will be approved by the Governing Council, let us hope that in a short time. Therefore, Mrs Kortajarena, our competence in this matter is laid down by the Social Services Act, and it is that of coordinating and planning and that of legislating, and we are carrying out our function in a permanent way, working on the permanent improvement of the centres for our elderly, through the adoption in short months of this decree, which has indeed been excessively delayed in its processing, two years since I came to this House in May, and we hope to come to improve and consolidate a system that we all have planned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u100	Yes, thank you. Thank you, chief of the Artola generous department, by descriptions or explanations... I don't know how to say it, porque ya la he dicho que no se puede right handur el waveto. We are well acquainted with the conquests marked by the law, and we are all acquainted with it, and I dare say we have discussed it in this legislature and in many enterprises of this group. And, of course, I thought it best to pretende el máximo bienestar, de no podoría ser de otera form. Then you have marked out the principal objects of this new decree. They're the objectives marked by the law, not those you've read, the law marks a direction, and you're supposed to work on it. And you said you were in an innocent exercise and you were working with them and the others. And when you brought in this decree, when I asked you for an explanation of this bill of decree, I told you what I thought about it. In any case, the Giant George Fordun from Gipulia told you that you should climb the ratios in that process too. I don't know if you've listened to him. And I do not know, for instance, whether he has said something in all this process of the Supreme Vision, by Protecting the charges made by the Congregation, or about the recommendations of the People themselves concerning this matter, or about the ships made by SATSE, which is your jurisdiction, or whether you have done something from the hand of this Supreme Court. I don't know if you've done it. You haven't told me anything about it. Nevertheless, I shall put back the two questions which I put on my first turn on the table, for this country has its attention, this country has its own way of guarding itself and guarding the women who are ready to guard themselves for these useful works of care, and who are ready to take care of them with complete dedication, and how they are to be entrusted to the care of those people who are about them, and how they are to be given, and how they will take care of them. To face the roots of this people in the care of care, to give way to the crisis of the care they live in, one of the keyees is the growth of the law of Social Services, and it is up to you, Chief Artola generous. It is in your power, in one part at least, the biasiness and comfort of thousands of men and women and relations. That's terrible and it's up to you. Ending with your public service debaluation and getting on the way to quality. To place your care in the centre of public policy and to change the conditions of working and conditions of life in your hands. To acknowledge the value of thousands of women's care in your hands. This government has the opportunity to begin to face the challenges it faces as a government, not as a market-driven board of directors. As a government, as a government of a decent country, guided by that intention to care for and protect its members. Guided also by a gender-based social justice from which all people can benefit. "Ad, señora Artola wide, no le corsponde hacer de esto un negonio lodgetable, sino poner a persones en el cententro, a vida el en dentro." Because when the institutions start to work like another economic operator, public services and women have too much to lose. We've also shown the story about the people of Euscalia, the people of Euscala, the Tiene clao succion, the Elevar a catgoría, the pollia el cuidado de lascio, and we've also shown it. Practice, try to answer these questions. Bring us the order from these new perspectives, the work to be done, the garrison of primary care, the trust, the care, the updates, the services, the initiative and the leadership. And if you really want to work for equality, you don't have to take any more fat reflection, so let's put the money on it, let's take the first step, and make more money to improve the conditions of those women who work in those mansions. The Euscal Financial Council has given a great deal of data, and it seems that even previews are going that way. Let us now establish a new fund, as a people, to answer all this, and to improve the care, and to improve the conditions of a thousand women, let us create a special basis for guarding and life. Let's find an answer, a fund, a life that's worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u102	Mrs Kortajarena, I believe that you and I agree with the need for this improvement to be accurate and to which we are committed. We in the decree, which goes beyond the previous one of the year 98, have tried to solve the needs that older people have in Euskadi, both in the ratios that arise and in the model of care, which is very important. This decree structures and adjusts, in accordance with the actual requirements of the elderly group, the material and functional minimums to be fulfilled by these services, in order to ensure the correct exercise of the rights of the users. Thus, the current legislation, which was already adapted in 2005 and 2006, was amended and drafted in 1998. And our goal is to ensure that users and their families receive care and personal assistance to carry out the activities of daily life, maintain their autonomy and foster personal development through the acquisition of skills and prevent their deterioration. In the draft decree of residential centres for the elderly, this model of care is defined, where it is specified that it will be done in an integral and people-centred way, and this will be realized based on the needs, tastes and future expectations of each of the users. This is our task as a government in the Basque system of social services: to plan and legislate. We hope that the definition and updating of the residence decree will improve the situation, both for persons living in and working in residences. We are aware that those responsible for the Parliament are concerned and concerned about what these strikes involve in the care centres for the elderly. I am sure that we will move forward to improve the care that older people and professionals working on them need. The improvement that we have put into effect with the decree will result in their well-being, the well-being of the elderly and that of the professionals who care and, in general, throughout society. And it is true that in the area of care we have a challenge to address, and that challenge we are going to address with the adoption and implementation of a care strategy in which we are immersed right now in its elaboration. Let us hope that among all, with the different decrees, with the updates, we will be able to provide services that are of better quality even than those that are being provided in these residences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interrament, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the solution of the serious situations in which the education system lives." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u104	Thank you, President of the legislature. I don't see your face. One day we'll have to move the gate or take your chair to another place. One day, a very sensible person in politics and management had said to me: "Look, Rebekah, your choices in this world will not be the choices you would like; you will have to decide the worst and the worst, and not the worst, know the world in which you move, move from their own hands, and make the best decisions for a long time." Was he a lawyer, Mrs. Uriart? Because if I met the Board of Education, I'd say he told me the opposite of what the Board of Education does, because I have a feeling that the Board of Education insists on taking the most pernicious decisions. I dare say that the Board of Education, the head physician of Education, does not know the field of education, even though it seems to be a lie. And I dare say that the head physician of education is an artist to annoy and banish the majority of the community of education. But I have often thought: "Jo, it may not be the head of the Board of Education, it is perhaps not the Board of Education, but they are subject to the EAJ, they are conditioned and limited to a person who doesn't know the world of education, and are forced to act in a self-criterial attitude, to renounce, to deny, and to diminish the proposals which others have. I mean the Board of Education and Education are forced to move in the ostox and barren policy." And that's a thought that makes me empathy with the head of the Board of Education. Empathy and worry. It gives me uneasiness. But then when I see the constant behavior of the Board of Education, giving it back to the unit of education, giving it up to the institutional tendency, to leave schools alone, to the directors of the schools to interfere in their everyday life, to persist in the development of the novel... When I see how much educational authority struggles for their demands, and even for the sake of their constituency, I am immediately composed of empathy, and I am seized with passion and passion, and I am seized with the desire to fight, in the presence of the consequences and damages which the inability of this department of education produces in the everyday. I don't know if it's voluntary, whether it's ignorance or carelessness. I don't know what's behind it. Because I feel impotent, because I feel impotent when I go to many schools, when I see those schools suffer from the administration and how helpless they are. I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry when I see what happens during the plate process. When I see the license plate committees, the representatives of education pass the law under their feet. And if there's nothing to say about anger, I don't know how to describe surprise or wonder at being described in front of the new proposition of the school stations recently announced by the Board of Education, what we don't yet know will be done. But here's the case with the compact schools. 95% of your priority sector, one way or another, it's financed with public money, and it's regulated from your section. But you didn't want to be able to do the work of the intermediary or take the hand. That's right, when you're interested, you use it to justify your policy. But you're not interested in the department, either when you're interested in it or when you're interested. And what to say about different evaluations. What results are, and these results are repeated. So we have a very complex situation. We have a very complex situation, Mrs. Wheels. I'm not saying that the education system is a disaster. I won't even say it's all your fault, because it's not your fault. But I'll tell you that the situation is getting more and more depressed. Yes, I'll tell you that your management doesn't help to improve the situation and this requires a change. As you say, it's better to improve the educational system and, as we say, by using our terms and using our terms, requires a transformation. Because at this moment, especially in our system, we're on our way to the education system because of the effort the community's people are doing, thanks to the overheavy, schools, teachers, parents. And you are not often capable of executing decrees, regulations, or sometimes laws granted in this house. So, what's the purpose of the Education Department? The Board of Education is dedicating plans and good words, plans that remain in the drawer. What does that bring? More and more distance from the educational unit, one distance. More and more crack. Besides, I have a sense of what I have seen, or I have an impression that you feel more comfortable under the protection of Casado and the retrospective Spanish model and ideology, than I have to do with our agents in our community. Why? I don't know if you can explain that. So, Mrs. Orriart, what we want to know is what is the situation, the anguish, the complexity, your route page? What's your career page to turn this situation around? What should all these operators do? I'm telling you that, tell me what we're going to do to get on with it. And what will you do? Tell me what to do, I mean, what to do to open a path to the conversation. And I'd like to know what you're gonna do, too. Finally, what are we gonna do and what are you going to do to take care of the entire educational authority? What's your route page?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u106	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. Ubera, not only in this law, but especially in this respect, it is a challenge of this education government, not only of Government, but of all, because it is a challenge of education. And that's what everybody's driving us. That's why I think there are some things we can agree with and especially those you've repeated so many times. To all of them education is one of the most important rights at the foundation of a society, both for the advancement of society, and for cohesion. But a lot more, and not just in theory. But it is true that some make use of them as an excuse to accuse one another, and to draw out other, or other, different interests. Especially at the moment when we're at it, it's very easy to use education as we ought to do, but even though you say everything's very wrong and it's not true, maybe you should put on other glasses. We have to build the system among all of us, so the system has to be based on agreement, and we have to take care of the system. It's a responsibility to all of our educations. I shall never be weary of saying that our government makes a decisive wager for human development based on a more social balance, so that the welfare State is a clear priority that cannot be refused, our system of social protection, without letting any one pass. It's a fundamental element of education for people to promote the difference of choice and to build together a solid and careful democratic life. Education is a universal right, and on this side we think we ought to take it for public property, as in common elements, like equity, life, cohesion, quality. This concept of public goods is, as it has been discussed, the sum of values and principles which structure and inform the public educational system. It's too important an education to be the object of party interests. As you know, it's time to make changes or progress in education. They don't get it from one day to the next. And for this reason, the sphere of stability must be opened. And to ensure this stability, we have to work on principles that will give us a chance to improve our system. But we are conscious, and we do not conceal it, we must improve it. Our education system has good indications. He has the society and government which give a great deal of importance to education. A society that has evolved, in which new technologies, new methodologies and the social structure itself indicate that we must move forward, that a change is needed. We must continue to take steps to promote equity and social cohesion, to improve the quality and effectiveness of our education system in order to move in this way towards excellence: to modernise our education system. But the starting point is not the one you draw. You talk about inclusion, equity, equal opportunities, euskaldunization, autonomy, working conditions. And we must value our educational system. Our system has not been interrupted. We have the maximum educational rate in child education, especially between 0-2 years. He's grown up since 2013. We have the lowest rate of students leaving school in the state, and we're going down the middle of the state rate, which now is 6,9%. As for the rate of the students they repeat, we are among the three communities that have the lowest percentage. But, of course, this data has to be improved. In the sphere of entering the work-world, in 2017, the Education of the High-School was performed by 96% of the students after this formation had been completed. According to the report of Eurostat's 2016, the rate of the young men who enter the work-world after the end of college is clearly above the average of state and EB28: Euskata is 74.3%, Spain's 58,8, and Europe 73%. Within 30 years of high-level education, population has reached 48.9%, and in state 42% and in Europe at 37%.9. We mustn't forget the expansion and use of the wombs and the covering of the scholarships given to the students. I know these are not all indicators, but these are also an important part of our educational system photo, because academic results are not a single, necessary, but not enough. Bak, extra services, special needs students being in rooms, all that is an important part of our system. We have an extensive collection of initiative which we are developing within the scope of the government program of this legislation, 59 initiative, 451 specific activities. This department isn't looking the other way, is taking care of the education of our children. Education is one of the priority of this government. Education is one of the four hinges which our people possess, and these challenges require a public and institutional action, but also a collective complication for everyone. During all these years we've had only one law of education based on the consent of Basques and the consent of the rules, and the tour of the Basque School in 1993. Social reality has changed all over the time, technology has become an important part of the process of learning, methodology has changed. The new challenges of education have been given to us that we must resume a reform which is as complex as it is necessary. I can see that, we can see that. We all see, however, that this difficulty does not frighten us, and it does not naturally frighten us. We face new educational challenges and this means re-establishing the foundations, the fundamental pillars that will ensure that our system adapts to them with guarantees of stability. It is our commitment to work on a new Basque education bill based on the agreement reached, which structures and strengthens the stability and quality of Basque education, advancing towards excellence in the coming decades. We must show that although different visions exist, we are able to build consensuses that respond to the challenges of our educational system. You have also made reference to working conditions. I would not like to finish my first intervention without referring to the conflict in the social initiative centres of concerted education. The government, this department, is in constant contact, is working with the parties involved, unions, employers, family associations... The government is not looking anywhere else, Mrs Ubera. As an educational leader, our involvement and interest in resolving the conflict is paramount. We share the concern and despair of families. I would like to urge the parties once again to take the conflict out of the classroom. It is perfectly compatible to continue to negotiate without causing further harm to the more than 100,000 children, pupils and pupils of the 215 schools concerned. They and they are the only ones harmed. It is necessary to continue working to find a solution without having to harm the student. I appeal to the responsibility of all to create a climate of dialogue and rapprochement that allows the devocatory of the new strike days proposed. I demand everyone's responsibility. And again, we have to get the conflict out of the rooms and keep negotiating. We've checked in public school that it's possible. I'd like to remind you at this point that the year has been a year for the collective majority of the community to agree with the majority of the community. Last March, agreements arrived at the steps of cooking and washing collectives, and Child Schools at the table of the Parzier. In the April past, the agreement was signed at the table of natural education and was obtained in May at the medical table of the professors. Undoubtedly, the measures agreed on have been affected by the improvement of education system and collective conditions. The agreement is possible and the responsibility of all of us is possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u108	But what harms the students more, those wretched conditions, those professors, which they suffer in their everyday schools, to improve those conditions? Because these teachers want the best for those students, and they fight for the quality of everyone's education. Compared to the Spanish state, I am not consoled, nor ought I to console you, Madam Uriart. But your example seems to be Spain. Finally, you're agreeing to our future educational system with Popular Party. And then you mean the challenge of the people. If education is a challenge of nations, what you should do is to agree with the community of education, and with the agents here, and not to look at Spain with so much. It seems to me that the evolution of the state of Spain and of the society of Spain cannot be consoled. It seems to me that there are much better ingredients here, and that if it is a challenge of the people, the way should be that. Look, the question is so simple... Everything's made up, Mrs. Uriart, everything's made up. The unit of education has a tremendous list of measurements. It's very simple: hear, listen to them, and apply them to their measures. You'd win, too, and four would be less. I think it's very simple. I agree that we need stability, but what you can't get for stability has been done without discussion, without employment, one morning you'll remove the discussion from the table and then seek stability. A theme like education requires deep work. First, you must begin by evaluating the legal frame that's made, what's wrong, what's done, what isn't, what's not. Then make a diagnosis, make a map, what the situation is. And then identify the measures to answer it, where the agreement is, where the disagreement lies, and begin to work where the agreement lies. We'll need short-term measures, middle-term and long-term measures. If you have those measurements, you don't want to apply them. Look, one day we'll do something. We do many visitors from here, and I'm sure you'll do them too. Let's go see the schools, let's go see the diary, and you'll find out there's no inclusion, there's no debutation. The results know what they are and I, for instance, the indicator of leaving school is of no use to me because colleges can't make us the parking lot of young boys and children. Schools are more than that. Don't forget you're in the government. We will not escape our responsibility, and we are ready to wet ourselves with our contradictions and all our privations. But we have to make a way, and we have to make that way together. Open the way to the conversation, to a concert, but with a serious planning and a serious and a good frame. This requires a profound discussion. Our conscience and our responsibility won't let us give you a white check and we won't do that. What we want us to do is to work, to argue really, to agree with each other. It's not here: Take this and swallow it. No, Social Party and Popular Party will do that. Not us, we won't act like that, much less with education. As you have said, because it is a popular challenge, but not a challenge to Spain, because it is our challenge of the people of the Basque Country. Change your political culture. We will try to improve ours, but it seems to me that we can also use the pedagogage and advanced methodology for this work: in the group, in projects, in shared ways, in the neighborhood... I think there are ways, but it's urgent. Time is passing, and we are in 19. 21th century education system with a model. and we are no longer able to answer the children and young men of our age. We can't do this. So start making decisions with courage. It's up to you and it's up to us. We won't run away from our care, but let's go and do it together. And I'll tell you something. I want you to go out and congratulate me, Mrs. Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Time is up. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u110	Mrs Ubera, this is about moving a vision of the worst. As we have already been saying, and I am talking about the last appearances and full, here nothing is casual, and today's thing also believes it. This attitude does not help our educational system at all, but quite the reverse. You want to spread over and over the negative view of our system. You're not very specific, and you're not helping to get a better education at all. We ask you to act carefully, actions, Mrs. Ubera, actions. On the 22nd of October, 2018, we brought our agreement to the Board of Education in this Chamber, the foundation of the treaty, the document. I repeat, that it is a document which constitutes the eucalyptic system of all education-makers, and which unites our educational system and strengthens it. A fundamental document and backbone and basic to promote a new Basque education bill, which on the basis of this agreement structures and strengthens the stability and quality of Basque education, advancing towards excellence in the coming decades. The majority of this House, I repeat, the majority represented in this House, adopted 122 resolutions on the basis of that document. You have decided not to participate, to debate or to vote on any of the resolutions adopted, none of them. Neither in favour, nor against, nor abstention, nothing. Who's looking the other way when they're looking at basic themes about education? I repeat, most of the majority who are represented in this chamber have accepted the resolution of 122. More done Mrs. Ubera, without going any further, last week. On February 14th the Chamber was the bill of legal measures for the 2019 educational event, one of the three legal projects of the necessary budget measures. And what did you do? Nothing. Nothing, in any of the three bills. Neither in favour, nor against, nor abstention. Directly nothing. Who looks the other way when it comes to the fundamental issues of the financing of the education system covered by that law? It could continue with more facts without being repetitive, with regard to, for example, complementary measures for the schooling of immigrant pupils, such as the new admission decree, or information points in the enrolment process, under the II Plan for the Care of Immigrant Students. Either the language immersion reception classes, the Reader's Plan and the Iraqi platform, or the measures of teacher stabilization through the various public employment calls, in addition to compliance with trade union agreements, such as the allocation of additional resources through the index of educational needs, among many other actions that take place from the department. All of them favour the improvement of inclusion, coexistence, fairness of the system and the improvement of working conditions. And all these measures are properly informed in response to the initiative by the answers and other information we have brought to this Chamber. Here it is very easy to place ourselves in a constant row of complaints, but reality, actions, is confirmed to us the explanation, and especially when you are asked to be engaged in matters, looking the other way. When there was a chance you refused to discuss it. As always, your way or nothing. But as I said on the first round, we're conscious that we have to make a change. The Public Basque School law is 25 years old in force. Since then, in society, and especially in education, changes have been atrocious. The Euscal education model must be once more thought and formulated in order to adapt itself to the new context, in order to prepare the paradigmama, and to prevent the early stages of education in the future. And that's what we're working on. As we were engaged, we took the first step, we made the deal and agreed. Now next: Based on this agreement, the Basque Education Project. As for us, therefore, to form compacts, to build for the majority, and in matters essential to this people, so we shall always endeavour to acquire the conformity. Whether you're willing to join us or not, we'll always have our hand out for the deal. Our motto is a neighborhood assignment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, the members of Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collector of the Society for Cultura and the head of the political teams, about the prohibition imposed on by Amazing more than a single concert in a month." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u112	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, chief physician, and thank you for coming to the parliamentary, all musicians, artists, creators and culturers, welcome. Mr. Chief, we have serious business today. Yesterday the decree was published at the Voltinium to develop the law of public spectacles and entertainments, more properly decretion. And in general he is hypernomaticist to prevent the many and different sects of culture. But above all, article 105. The point is that he has aroused all the alarms: It limits the number of spectacles in bars and small rooms without making any distinction. He will be strong next April 21st, and fate is often a caprice, which is the day of international creation. A decree that will shut the gates of creation and culture will then be established, if we do not prevent it before, and this is done by artists, guests, and neighbours' associations. For this reason, we ask you whether to correct the dean with the signature of the chief physician who sits next to you, Mr. Zupiria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u114	Mr. President, Mr. Estarrona. Welcome to artists, musicians and barkeepers. I think there's a chance of conducting this discussion about pubs and music, Mr. Estarrona, and, considering the respect due to different parties, there's also a chance of managing the matter with elasticity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u115	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u116	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Your answer made me quite cold, of course. And if you mean flexibility, in the year 12 or 24 gigs, which Urrann proposed to the Gaste, by the decree you made to go from Guatemala to Guatepeo, if that's your flexibility, you don't understand. The problem here on the basis is not a decree or a specific article. That's just an effect. And yes, you should cancel. But what is really the foundation here is a way of understanding culture, a cultured model. They must withdraw this measure immediately because it is based on a mistaken consideration of the arts as a mere spectacle or as leisure events, and it goes against a cultural policy that should favor a social and cultural fabric that is part of the being and of understanding our lives, our peoples and our cities. The culture is not transatlantic cruises that dock in the port of Bilbao, visit the Guggenheim and return to the cabin of the boat, nor is it only the macro-concerts, macro-events and the MTV gala. Culture defines Oteiza as a sign of the spiritual behavior of a city in "Quousque tandem". How long, Mr. Counsellor, are you going to continue with cultural policies that are leading our cities and peoples to have no spirit or soul of their own? Voltaire described the Basque people as that village that sings and dances on both sides of the Pyrenees. And you seem to want a future for our country where you sing and dance little by taking this kind of stockings, a boring country. And it is that you are doing well what Eskorbuto sang of "A lot of police..." – regulations, decrees, prohibitions, sanctions – "and little fun". He wants to impose a decree the year La Polla returns, with Evaristo at the head, who exclaimed the other day that "Where the fuck is a group going to start if it isn't in a bar?" And La Polla comes and the bad news goes. Baion Zizpa, Astra Guernica, Bonerena, disheuage, and the whole Gasteiz. The lungs of our culture. Therefore hear the creator and the musician, hear the voice of the people, because he does not want to live in hope. We're sure we'll get the worst of it. The gates of our villages, cities, little rooms, youths, and taverns do not close and open the arts, Mr. Zupuria. A town that sings will never die. Don't break the thread. The founders of the Basque Country, artists, musicians, culturers, you bibas! Because without culture there is no future, no attacks against culture! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u117	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u118	You're not gonna clap my hands, but I'm gonna love you guys. The order that was admitted to the 5th of February last EukMIK, had an important purpose. it was unsolved to regulate several points in the field of spectacles. The Decree is very complex, and this work of discipline has not been a caprice of the People's department. On the contrary, it has been answered by the public, by the public, by the theatre-makers, and by the demands which the councils are continually planning. Many members of the organization, operators, and groups have contributed to the prosecution, and the proposals received have been many and many, which have been introduced into the text of the decree. Around the music concerts that's brought us here today, it's a big goal. they were without any rule, and without any order, to regulate certain states, and to guarantee their source. The little concerts, performances, theatrical performances, or show shows that they've never had any rule before. They were in the limbo. And when something's in limbo, it's not in heaven or hell, it's in limbo. And it's hard to defend. It's hard, for instance, to defend a concert without permission in front of a neighbor's complaint, and it's hard to detect responsibilities if accidents or accidents happen. The aim of the Decree is, therefore, to guarantee that in drawing rooms where there is no license for taberning and cultural performances, or in the drawing-rooms where there is no license. The Cultural Department thinks it's good for a department of hosting, in order to improve its attractions, to organize the habits of culture which are not of its own accord. And the Cultural Department thinks it's very good to sing, to play ballot actors or painters in bars. There are 155,000 bars in the Autonomia Eredi. If there were 12 events in each, think of the events we'd have, and it's not a joke. So it's more attractive bars and convenience for culturers. Okay. But here's another matter, Mr. Estarrona. How many performances must be allowed in a room where he hasn't asked for any license? Free bar 12, 48 or so? Should we put a limit to it or not? There's nothing to do with the licenses or licenses required by a local man, as well as the measure that MUGHY has received in his decree at this point, when Eudel has been represented by words. If, then, the townships of Esscal think that this must be regulated in another way, ready to speak to us. In any case, Mr. Estarra, I really believe that a decree which M. And that suppleness is in everyone's hands. And it is necessary to manage all parties, councils, hosts, private music rooms, citizens, and people's rights. That's our point, that's our point, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list. "The question. Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH recruited by the head of the Security Department. "about the interpretation of the concept "terrorism" used by the border." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u120	Thank you, ma'am. Hey, you guys. In Beltrán de Heredia, bordering has performed two operacis with a very small interval of time Amtureon, Aran. At the first opera a former national police officer shot the family with a banner on the prisoner's side. The author, however, was well known, and yet had to take four days to make a search. When he reacted, he caught an arsenal in this person's house. He presented the door in front of the Amcurum court, accused of damage. In the second case, he's found a twin who's been abandoned for five years by the edgelines and other fuel that can be found in the market. But at once you've made a political interpretation of the case as terrorism, and you take its closed-out to the national audience. You arrest two patriotic young men who are now in prison at the Soto del Real. Two cases, therefore, which have very serious but slight treatment, and the other which has light consequences. But what you really do with a serious interpretation: in the one the damages, in the other terrorism. And I want to know why that kind of interpretation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u121	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u122	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Mr Arzuaga, this is a false debate that you want to take me to, but in which you know that I cannot enter. You want me as a Security Advisor to compare criminal facts that are different, that have nothing to do with each other, also different investigative processes, absolutely disparate resolutions, criminal facts that, neither in their origin, nor in their motivation, nor in their resolution, as far as they can be definitively understood, have nothing to do with each other. Would you have liked them to be compared or otherwise resolved? Well, that could be so. But that's not his or mine, it's not up to either of us. And in this false debate of terrorism yes, terrorism no, when yes, when no, why yes, why not, you play with an advantage. You play with advantage because you can unbalance the balance in one direction or another, towards one position or another, depending on what suits you best. And surely his people will applaud him, surely. You can equate circumstances with criminal acts, insinuate that they are similar, generate doubt as to whether they are comparable or not, without the need for more exigency than your own appreciation. But police investigation procedures and also criminal proceedings, the resolution, don't go that way and you know it. I'd tell you that it's more simple than that. He's made some research that the edge investigations have to be made, he's put the information into the judge's hands, and the judges have made a decision. It is not for me to begin with what the judges and the prosecutor have decided to say whether it is right or wrong, much less to question the inquiries made by the border.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u123	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u124	Look, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, you are talking to me about a false debate and it is you who have unbalanced the balance. Because they have evaluated, because they have interpreted facts, because it is exactly what appears in the attestation of the territorial criminal investigation service of Araba0.va, that is, of the Ertzaintza, the attestation of the Ertzaintza that puts in the National Audience specifically the case of the two young people. And let's give the literature of this attestation. Because they talk about street violence, they talk about the zulo kale borroka kale borroka "A talde near the MLNV." How next? Am I close to the MLNV? How close are they? He's talking about a support group. Supporting who? To an organization that no longer exists? Attention: "Method of material preservation, airtight plastic can that has historically been used by ETA commands". I mean, is using an airtight plastic can binding to ETA commands? Who writes this barbarity? This is a misconception, Mrs. Beltran of Heredia. Principle of reality in the Ertzaintza report: "The terrorist organization ETA and the organizations that have been linked or close to terrorism etarra have continued with harassment and harassment towards certain sectors of society". Ertzaintza document, certified. How long have they continued this harassment? Until October 2018, which is when this document is made? And it follows: "As more serious events could be listed mainly the event in the Navarra town of Alsasua where the hostile climate towards the agents of the Civil Guard is palpable", climate that later in this report of Ertzaintza is attributed to ETA. Do you know what a decision was made in this Parliament seven days ago by denouncing the cases of the acts of Altsasu, showing solidarity with these young people and denouncing this interpretation of terrorism that was being made? Why do you now defend these terms? I can't talk about the background that these kids are being charged with. But this is true witch hunt, this is pure persecution. It's not a criminal record, it's ideological persecution. The facts that are hypothetically being attributed to them, you yourself described them in 2014 as internal processes, which were linked to Kutxabank's internal processes. And instead, we compare it, yes, we compare it with a shooting carried out by a national police officer, by a national police officer, because his bullet passed 60 centimeters from the owner of that house, and because a double measuring rod is being applied here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u125	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u126	Look, Mr. Arzuaga, the Ertzaintza, as an integral police officer, is responsible for our security, for everyone's and everyone's. It is therefore committed to protecting the free exercise of our rights and freedoms, to ensuring citizen security and to ensuring peaceful coexistence and to protecting people and property. And when you investigate an alleged crime against some of those targets, you look for evidence, you look for evidence that could incriminate. If, on the basis of such evidence, according to what it finds and what is derived from it, the Criminal Code establishes some cataloguing of such activities, that is, that circumstances or actions may be given in relation to some type of terrorist, this is communicated to the court and also to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The judicial decision does not always coincide with the first attribution or classification made by the Ertzaintza. But precisely in these cases, in both cases, this confirmation by both the natural court and the National Court, which was the other case, has corroborated this initial qualification. Maybe you don't like it, maybe you do, maybe you don't, I see you don't, but this is the fact and this is the real fact. So, Mr. Arzuga, the bordering has done a proper job in both cases and the judges have agreed to that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u127	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Edurne García Germbes of Podemos, a member of the Society to the Chief of Security, about opening gambling rooms and bethouses near the Schools." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u128	Thank you, ma'am. As we have already pointed out from Elkarrekin-We can, gambling addiction increases among the younger people in Euskadi. In Álava there are already more than 27 open playrooms. In view of the imminent opening in the Zabalgana neighborhood, very close to the institute, 300 meters away, of a new betting venue, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, what measures will be taken from the Gambling and Shows Directorate to limit the opening of these gambling halls and betting houses near school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u130	Thank you again, ma'am. We share the concern about the consequences of the uncontrolled and irresponsible game as we have expressed on several occasions. And from the Administration, and in particular from the Department of Security, we act to avoid it and to this precisely respond the Regulatory Decree of the Game and the constitution of the Observatory of the Game precisely last week. We have always advocated regulating, controlling, preventing and warning about the dangers of irresponsible gambling and gambling. We are also aware of the need to continue to control the indicators of such a sensitive, dynamic, and changing activity. Regarding the playrooms, it is established, we have already established a license top for the whole of Euskadi: 210 licenses, with a distance between the playrooms of 500 meters. In Euskadi are already granted virtually all possible licenses, including that of the salon to which you refer. And why? Because their opening does not contravene any rules, nor the General Rules of Gambling, nor the municipal regulations. But I also have to insist that we have explicit regulations prohibiting minors from entering the playrooms. The rules themselves and the Act on Entertainment and Recreation provide for this. Is it necessary to regulate? Yeah. Should we be demanding in monitoring compliance with these regulations? Yeah. Risks need to be addressed in order to take the necessary preventive measures. We are from the department, but it is not good to generate alarms when we have control mechanisms that can guarantee and avoid those risks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u131	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u132	Thank you, ma'am. The structure of the neighbourhoods in our community has been changing over time and completely with the proliferation of consumers and the increase of the betting houses themselves. The result has been the disappearance of traditional businesses, especially in the poorest neighbourhoods, where there is a lot of unemployment and social problems, many young people trying to survive. And the coincidences, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, do not exist. Look who benefits from the game, half a dozen companies, who don't create jobs, nor their profits go back to our society, with the obvious deception of making money quickly, in a simple way and soon after they will lose in one way or another. That's what it's about, winning at first to lose almost always. The game was designed precisely this way, so that a few would become rich at the expense of the most unfortunate. And we cannot point out, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, that we cannot continue to look elsewhere at the proliferation of the gambling offer and betting that has also reached the streets of our municipalities in Euskadi, placing playrooms in places of special sensitivity, in the vicinity even of public institutes and schools, with the consequent exposure of students and the normalization of an activity that can lead to problems of addiction. Look, this is the map of Vitoria. It's the 27 points, the 27 playrooms and betting houses that are right now open. Where do they focus? It also seems to us that we are facing a serious social problem and they have already begun to mobilize, convening and carrying out protests in the neighbourhoods, both neighbourhood associations and youth associations and other collectives. And now, instead of limiting the opening of these spaces near schools, there will be the opening of a new playroom in the Zabalgana neighborhood, 300 meters from a public institute. Because you, who do have competence and who do have capacity, have decided not to limit and regulate it, even though even Mr Urtaran and the neighbouring associations are asking you to do so. Mrs Bertran de Heredia, it's not enough with a diagnosis, it's not enough with just a game observatory. We have to go beyond that. Today the phenomenon of the game is a scourge. The panorama is desolating. In Gasteiz 20% of the people who go to associations against ludopathy in the city are under 25 years of age. A percentage that has grown at the same time as the presence of these spaces was triggered and sports bets became fashionable. And it should be added that 2% of people seeking help are minors. Above all, let us not allow games rooms near their centers. And to this must be added the omnipresence of the advertising of the game on digital platforms, media and billboards, even in municipal stadiums where boys and girls train. They're under constant bombardment. Not only that, but also on bus tracks. And we think it's amazing that we can't limit this, because advertising spaces are being cooped with the most popular faces of the moment, and they use these sports idols to awaken in younger and younger people the possibility of trying luck. For Elkarrekin-We can the situation is serious and it is necessary to take action and address from the institutions plans, campaigns and concrete measures that mitigate the negative impact of the game. It is simple, we defend the rights of the most vulnerable groups such as young people, and not the economic interests of half a dozen companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u134	I insist, Mrs Garcia, that we regulate, control, continue to measure so that we can plan better. To investigate, analyze, make a diagnosis of the impact of the game, that is precisely the objective of the Game Observatory. This was demanded by Parliament itself from the Observatory of the Game in the non-legislative proposal adopted last Thursday. So let the Observatory do its job. The minimum distances from playrooms to schools are not regulated. It's true, but neither with regard to other centers, civic centers, residential, sports, religious, sanitary, leisure parks... On the other hand, we have established the minimum distances between the playgrounds. And, above all, we have very clear bans on minors' access to gambling venues. The fines you know are between 2,500 and 4,000 euros. Evidently, the Play and Show Unit and the security staff of Ertzaintza itself act for their observance. The local police, who have been trained in this field at the Arkaute Academy, also carry out this activity. With all the difficulties that this regulation may pose, however, it is an easy, simple regulation. The complicated thing is to act in other areas, as you have said. Especially in the online game That's why, regularizing and penalizing, yes, it's up to us to do it and we're doing it and we're going to keep doing it. But we must also implement other lines of work, other aspects such as family responsibility, school education... And we will also work and implement these lines of work, among other things, with campaigns for responsible gambling, with educational talks of the Ertzaintza in schools and, in any case, as I said, let us let the Observatory work, make an accurate diagnosis of the problem, of the situation and, on the basis of that, take measures, but not measures to boat soon, but with an overview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u135	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The question is, that Euke Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, had been made to the Chief of Work and Justice, the conditions of the court of Greek violence, and the administration of Justice."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u136	Yes, good afternoon. Mrs San José, what is the degree of progress in the elaboration, as well as implementation of the agreement reached by the Basque Parliament from the motion called Administration of Justice, Machist violence?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u138	Thank you, Mr. President and all the good noon. Mrs. Arana, in the Department of Labour and Justice we took good note on your day of the motion that you adopted on October 26, 2017. I assure you that with total conviction we are working, as we did before that motion was approved, on each and every point of it. With regard to implementation, we have intensified work lines and improved services. We are implementing measures on different lines, which give comprehensive treatment to the care that victims of gender-based violence must have. Our actions are directed in three directions: to provide the justice administration with the means, to provide the officials with the necessary resources and, as I see it, to provide the victims with conditions to prevent revictimization. With regard to the support of the Administration of Justice, we are providing all members of the judiciary with training on gender-based violence, staff layoffs are being immediately covered and the necessary reinforcements are being provided in the courts of violence against women. The staff of the Department of Labour and Justice are also receiving specific training. In relation to victims, collaborative services with the justice system are being strengthened through the victim care service, with the creation of the comprehensive support service, which allows individual dedication to each case. The comprehensive forensic evaluation units, which, together with the psychosocial-judicial team, issue expert reports at the request of judges, prosecutors or forensic doctors themselves, have been strengthened. In the recent decree on free legal aid, we have incorporated measures that strengthen the care of victims, such as the requirement that it be a lawyer or lawyer who handles the case throughout the judicial process, or the creation of a specific model with a higher pay increase than the rest. Aware of the importance of caring for children and adolescents, we have opened a new family meeting point in Bilbao during the parliamentary term and we have created three others in Durango, Gernika and Toulouse, which allow for the proximity of minor and family users. We are also working to adapt in judicial buildings spaces for victims of gender-based violence, conditions in which revictimization is avoided. One of the key keys to making justice more effective is to provide the judiciary with the necessary resources. We have therefore called for the creation of a new court of violence against women in Bilbao, which I hope will be authorized by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u139	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u140	Thank you. On June 6, 2017, exactly 626 days ago, Mrs.San José, from Elkarrekin-We can ask you in this House, asking you what steps the Department of Labour and Justice was going to take to improve the situation of the courts. That day, you stated that in the case of women's violence courts, you were particularly concerned about the conditions under which the victims were treated. He found that he had made a visit and that he had lived or recorded that the poor conditions created tense and incomprehensible situations in both specialized and mixed courts, or in the Bilbao Criminal Court, and that he had assessed the case and that they were taking action. As a result of that inquiry, as you have said, we made a motion adopted by a majority and that, among the measures, we called for the development of a plan to implement the recommendations arising from the evaluations carried out so that the Administration of Justice improves those aspects that are identified as necessary to ensure access to justice for women, girls and adolescent children who are victims of sexist violence and to ensure that these victims are not revictimized. Well, it's been 483 days from that motion and we don't have any plans. We have had no record of its existence, it is not published anywhere, nor have we seen any headlines in the newspapers, so we understand that it does not exist. During this time, the number of complaints continues to increase, Mrs. San José, reports of gender-based violence by partner, ex-partner and also by strangers. And yet, we continue with institutions – the Basques – that should be prepared not only to raise awareness, but also to raise awareness and give the right answer. And let me remind you, Mrs San José, that today we are still not giving an adequate answer, we are still not doing our homework. It is irresponsible to raise awareness and generate mechanisms for reporting so that then there are not sufficient means for not revictimizing or, which is the same, not exercising institutional violence. We must respond and attend well, have sufficient means, ensure non-repetition and, of course, repair. The situation of the Administration of Justice should concern us and deal with us, and it seems to you that it does not concern you or concern you. I told him two years ago and I'm telling him today. First, they are overloaded, and the overload generates work dynamics that have as their main consequence that situations cannot be met with dedication and sufficient time. Secondly, the infrastructure and building conditions are not the right ones, which involves situations such as having to share spaces or that the victim and the aggressor can even see. In addition, in the many cases in which women have to come accompanied by boys and girls, the spaces end up being totally inadequate. He was told in 2016 by Ararteko and was told in 2017 by Emakunde. The situation, Mrs San José, of the Administration of Justice, is a clear example of how we can have a speech in favour of equality but in fact do not devote the necessary resources to make it real and effective. The situation of the courts is regrettable. And, in addition, they are coming to tell you that you have to provide comprehensive training to all the staff of the Administration and they still do not do so. Women report and then face a blind justice that does not give them an answer. We will continue to work on encouraging concrete measures to improve this desolating landscape that violates the right of access to justice for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u142	Mrs Arana, in my first speech, with the time limits we have, I have told you of the management we are doing. Of course, as a socialist, I have clear convictions about the scourge of violence and the measures that must be taken to deal with it. And I am sure that consensus and agreement, especially between progressive forces, is that these agreements are essential in order to advance the protection of victims. We proposed to them a draft budget that substantially increased the provision for improving the care of victims of violence against women. You were able to check the departure for the convention to increase the number of lawyers involved in gender-based violence, violence against women, the victim care service. This service of integral accompaniment to the victims in the courts, what would solve? Not only the problem of revictimization, but also of children and adolescents coming to the courts and increased provision for free legal aid. We showed our priorities, you rejected them. But, despite that negative attitude, we will work to move forward with our proposals. I am glad that we are, of course, finally counting on your consensus and your agreement to carry them forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-22.u143	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-two.
