ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start the theme list, we'll have a minute's silence for Santiago Brouard. [[Silent]] The first point in the theme list. "Punciation of law by parlamental teams to stabilize public employment. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented. And thus, without reading, we shall proceed to dispute. On the side side side side, apart from the EH Collect Group, is anyone else willing to participate in the side shift? Side shift? On the counter shift? On the counter shift? Well, then we'll start our shifts. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u1	Congresswoman, Mr. Urkullu, Mr. Erkoreek, all good morning. The high temporary rate in public EAE is not of chance...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u3	...is a consequence of certain political effects, due to a definite contractation which has been applied for years, decades, and decades. It is an example and effect well measured by political will, which we have in the public system. Perhaps it was owing to the decision that the public system sought for a more thin and preponderative system, or to a misrepresentation, or to challenge our affairs in public administration, and to solve matters by negotiation, or, perhaps, all these factors, all together, have made our situation. But it's reality, right now, that it's just... that the infection that's caused by its decision and beauty is uncontrollable. He didn't at first give any importance to the wound he had wound, time, infection, a serious infection. If it was enough at first with oxygen water and Betadine, it's not enough now. And then he saw himself forced to face the infection, but not too convinced. But there's no way out. But since he's not convinced, he'd still prefer to look out with a certain hypocrisy. And now, through the great headlines, in this hypocrisy, the OPE has begun to announce and to act as if they were massive and huge OPE. But the saddest thing is that those OPE who have begun to announce that they can't solve the exceptional situation we're in now, and that they need other measures. I mean, in order to solve this exceptional situation, we need exceptions. You're gonna have to understand that you can't make politics with the headlines. You can't solve problems with the Titus. Maybe he can make sales in society. But that way. And it's over or it's almost over. The point is that the picture we have is, looking at from the angle we look at, the image that returns us is very crude. In European Union, 20% of the workers are public workers, but EAE is 12%. My God, they're all four temporary employees from ten of them. In all, we've got 40,000 crews to hang. EAE, there's 100,000 workers working for the public system. In education, in general, we have a 41% temporary period, related to all teachers and workers, which is an influence on education quality, education projects, students, results. We have 44% of our membership, which has a direct effect on the clital system that OPE has been built, and also in the quality of health. Bordering, yes, is the only exception. There's no time to go there. In general administration the provisionality is over 40%, and it has a direct influence on the structure in which social coverage should be guaranteed. 30% in public society, Basque University, 35%. That's some facts. Other facts. If we examine it, too, when the last OPEs were made, we have curious data in several categories. For instance, in the general Administration, the last OPE was made in 2000, a special education made in the year 2005, in kitchens and washing machines, in the year 2001. So cares aren't for workers. And we have to add to this that we are at this moment in a change of generation, and that the change of generation must be done well in order to do the transfer properly, in a balanced and normal manner. And besides that, by establishing the rates of repositions under the pretext of crisis and controlling the expense, the OPEs have not been made, or the OPEaks have been very rare and limited, though, in the case of political will, they have gone beyond the limits established by those laws, and have been abolished. On the other hand, if we look at the planets, we have on the one hand the official list of public jobs on the bulletin, and, on the other hand, the jobs of the day and the laborers working in the day. And the difference is remarkable, very remarkable. We know we need a flexibility to management, but so much? So much? And, for example, in education, 2020 budgets, listed on bulletin, there are 24.983 jobs of teachers. Every day, taking the date of May, we've got the data that the Chinese Jaurist has given me, Dr. 30.398 professors. And if we go to Osade, RPT is 26,000, and every day, according to the date of May, we have 32,544 employees. Questions are: How many jobs are there without codes? How many of these code jobs are there without entering the list of jobs? We may understand a certain flexibility, and we need some distance, but what I said before: such a distance? And, not to reveal the actual jobs, what contraction plan did this government employ? What is the policy of contraction? In the 83/2010 Decree, where the agreements of the General Table of 2009 are received, the measures were taken to prevent this situation, but it hasn't been completed. This government has abolished the decree, its decree. That's what happened, too. And the Basque People are the object of the Collectors, and what we are trying to accomplish today is with the legal proposition we've brought to accept the tramit, and what we're trying to achieve is to put a good soil on public contraction, and then to place a good soil on the public function in order to accommodate the public to new times. That's our goal, and we're trying to achieve it with this law. But for that, what course did we establish? What route did we establish? First of all, the squares that are commercial must be surfaced. That's the key. They must be diagnosed to surface uncoded jobs and be accepted in general on the table to determine the number of public jobs to be stabilized. Two. Having accepted the offer for public business, to accept the funds necessary for members, scales, specialities, and selection processes of all categories. Three. In fields which have a high temporary rate of classifications and sub-groups start processes to fix employment, with an opportunity to set more than one round when they have large percentages, and explored several categories. It is therefore, in short, that what is planned is, in order to fix the soil, to open the way to stable public employment, only because there has been no chance of this in several categories and sub-groups for years, and sometimes because, although it has been, it has been very little. And someone will say: Is it just that every citizen does not allow himself to enter the public function under the same circumstances? But is it fair for five years, eight years, 15 years, to be fired after 20 years of public work? And in many cases we speak of persons who are about to be judged, who are still in a position to present themselves to OPE. And it is true: the situation is not easy, it is a complex situation. But the public administration is in a state of exception which has lasted for a long year, and this exception must be given a solution, in order to establish good columns in the corresponding parameters of quality, namely, to place a good soil, and especially when the standard of opposition to a guarantee was established. For otherwise we may be again in the same state. We need to encourage and develop high-quality employment in the public and in the private area. That certain privileges which are in the public function must be abolished? Sure. That the model of functionary must be remodeled? Sure. That working in the public function is not a right? Of course, of course. But no policy can justify the policy which is being made to justify itself, and to send a few messages against officials. The messages that are thrown out of public opinion are not suitable, and it must be rejected, as it is necessary, that we should have a good frame to secure the rights of the people, and that we may build them; updated, effective, near, fresh, Basque. And that's exactly what we were planning: To accept a law which has all the legal guarantees, to limit the provisional position of employment in the Esupal Autonomy Esprogical Administration, and to stabilize the employment. And the most important thing: that the guarantees should not again be put into the contraction model. We must also say that, when we were opened, we were confined to the administrative administration and to its public society and organisms, and once opened, to negotiate, to enter councils and alliances, knowing that this is already applied in certain townships and townships, and in all cases accepted by the law, and in general to agree with the delegation of workers. That's all. That's our plan. But it is sad to see that the Government has not neglected its usual conduct, and that instead of employing the jurists, it has been using an awkward and ill-conditioned office in order to remove our legal proposition, and that, in the end, it closes the doors to the conversation instead of opening the gates. Mr. Erkora, I know the point... I don't know, maybe you're not interested. But are the regulations introduced into the bill of law for public employment more firm than our legal proposition? It's a question. Or did you choose a low-back door, that is to say, mixing and entering the bill of scales and members is a much better legal technique? You weren't able to negotiate and agree in general. You didn't have the courage to transfer the bill of law to the public function. And now, in company and beggarly, ye come by the back door with a bill of law, instead of giving the proposal to this day, and not opening the door to the whole conversation. Moreover, the testimonies which you have taken are not clear, but they are limited. You know, and you have shown once more that you have no fixed will to set bounds to the temporary, and that public employment is no privilege to you. In your plannings, you make it clear that you're improvising, that you put patches in them, and that you're trying to maintain the policy of hiring today. To postpone this law, this legal proposition is to reject a real choice, a real choice. And yet we may enter into a war, whatever we wish to accuse each other, but it is true that we do not solve anything, because we need it because we need it so much that we can put an end to the temporary solution of public employment. We need to put aside the patches, to structure a strong public system, to adapt the public function to new times, because it has become a very old-fashioned tool. But all this is to be done by changing the standard of contraction, by making a solid soil, and by associating with future generations. That's why we made such an open plan to open the dialogue, to give the General the protagonism, to restore the character and independence he's been deprived of for years, and to get him out of the skirt of Madrid. That's why we made this plan, because in recent years this government has limited itself to apply the measures that came from Madrid. We should all be able to make a plan to face the provisionality of all the unions in five years. We should be able to do this. But it seems that the courtship of the Government is not to be made. And the question is: When will this government stop closing doors? And when will he open the door to the interview and the agreement?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing on the opposite round, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Ubera has made a diagnosis of the situation in which public employment in the Basque Republic is currently taking place. And it has offered us a tool to correct the problems which, in your opinion, workers who work in the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community are suffering. We fully agree with that diagnosis made to us by Mrs Ubera. Last week –well, not even a week ago – the lehendakari, from this rostrum, was speaking to us when asked about the employment situation in the Basque Autonomous Community. And he said that they were going to continue to create quality jobs and jobs, they were going to continue to create quality jobs and jobs. I understand that you said that... "We" meant – I understand – the whole Governing Council. You are the largest employer in Euskadi, Mr Urkullu; you run the largest public enterprise in the Community. The largest company in the Community is, in fact, public, and you and your decisions depend on hundreds of thousands of people. You are therefore the largest employer in the Basque Autonomous Community in terms of responsibilities for workers or number of workers, and you told us that you wanted to continue to create quality jobs and jobs. You're not creating a job, as far as I know. In absolute terms, the public employment that there were or number of people working for the public service in the Basque Autonomous Community at the beginning of this parliamentary term is practically the same as there are now; that is, no new employment has been generated. What is being done is to replace those people who retire within the public administrations and enter new workers. And if you are not creating jobs, less are you creating quality jobs, Mr Urkullu, because, when we measure the quality of jobs, one of the first issues that is always analysed is temporality in employment. If there is talk of precarious employment, when a job is temporary, when a job is not fixed, it is always understood that such employment is precarious and that, as such, it must be tended to become undefined jobs for the quiet of the worker, so that he can develop a career and a personal life project in function or around that job. In fact, at a time when young people tend to decide whether they are going to work in private enterprise or in the public sector, one of the main causes of their tendency to go to the public sector is for stability in employment. That is, of course, within the great public service, there are those who choose this sector by vocation, because those jobs that they have always wanted to reach, so they only take place within the public service. Let us look at the case of the police: if you want to be a police officer, you will obviously have to work in the public sector, because in the private sector these jobs do not exist. If one wants to focus on social and health issues, then in a very big way or a very important way, one will have to focus on the public sector, because, even if it does not have it exclusively, the private sector is much smaller in terms of the supply of jobs. But the vast majority of public workers choose this sector not by vocation, but by stability. And stability, Mr Urkullu, within the public sector that you are leading is therefore a disaster, and, throughout this legislature, far from improving, has worsened. As Mrs Ubera gave the data a few minutes ago, between three and four out of ten public workers are not fixed. If people access the public service by trying to get a fixed job and it turns out that what they get is quite the opposite – an unstable job that remains in the air and that at any time can lose it – then it makes the public service not attractive. Then I deny you the biggest thing you said the other day, Mr Urkullu: neither create jobs in the public sector nor are they of quality. That's my opinion. That is the diagnosis made to us by Mrs Ubera, and then she proposed to us a tool, a tool that we, as well as the diagnosis we did share, cannot share. We cannot share this because I do not honestly believe that this is the best system to end the indwelling that the public sector has right now. I think we've got it right. I have always thought, I thought, that whoever wants to opt for a position in the public service must do so in accordance with the principles of equality, merit and capacity, and I believe that the system you propose does not respect those principles, because those who have never worked in the public service will not compete on equal terms with those who have been in the public service for a few years; not because of their fault, of course, but because of the mismanagement of those who run the public administrations over the years, not of this legislature, but of previous legislatures, because it has led to that situation in which they have to compete who have a long and extended experience in a particular position to which they did not agree with those principles of equality, merit and capacity, did not enter into those conditions, and now, if they are to be privileged against those who have never worked in the public service, I believe that those principles are broken, and therefore we are burdening ourselves with the system of access to the public service in the terms laid down by the basic legislation. It was a long time ago that the Basque Civil Service Act had to be brought into this House or processed in this House, and we had already passed in the previous legislature that was brought late and wrong, when we all already knew that it was not going to be dealt with, but the Government said that it was Parliament's fault, because it had not been dealt with fast enough and had already fallen to the end of the legislature. And this year they have done exactly the same thing again; they have brought it before, before the end of the legislature. And the other day, Mr Erkoreka had the courage to tell us in the committee, when they presented the budgets, that, if that law is not being dealt with, it is Parliament's fault that the Government has already done so by drafting this bill and presenting it to the House. It seems to me very ugly to come to Parliament and take advantage of the parliamentarians who were present in that committee, and more with something that is not true, because I do not think it is the fault of the parliamentarians or the committee that this rule is not being dealt with, a rule that is true that you have not presented because no one has called you to present that rule. The vice comes from behind. You do not want to introduce that rule, and the committee has not asked for that rule to be introduced, Mr Erkoreka, because that rule you know perfectly well that it will not go ahead. That rule does not have the support of the workers, and we have been told by all the workers' representatives, all the trade unions, professional associations within and outside the General Bureau: they are against the content of that bill that you have brought to the House. Then with that it is very difficult for that bill to move forward. I do not know the situation of the rest of the groups, because I can only speak to them on my behalf and on behalf of my group. No one from the Government has called on us to negotiate this bill to take it forward and to establish a set of bases or criteria on which to amend certain matters and to take it forward, to bring a favourable opinion from the committee, to bring it to plenary and to adopt it. And you know perfectly well that laws that have been introduced after that of Public Employment of the Basque Autonomous Community are being processed. He even knows perfectly well that there have been laws that, with a couple of meetings of the paper – extensive laws, complicated laws, difficult laws – have gone ahead and been passed in the House. Then come here and tell us that if this law is not being dealt with, it is Parliament's fault that I find it a little embarrassing, if I may, Mr Erkoreka, because you are paralysing it precisely because this committee is dealing with bills that have arrived later. And you do not want to come forward with that bill because you know that you do not have the support of the representatives of those directly affected, who are civil servants. And hence the problem that we are going to move to the next legislature, which is that the precariousness of public employment will continue to grow. That does not mean that we are going to support the solution proposed to us by EH Bildu today, because "I repeat," we understand that you do not have sufficient and necessary guarantees. And we may have to wait for the announcement made to us last week by Mr Erkoreka, which is that by the hand of the Law of Bodies and Scales, we also put the necessary processing to put an end to the interinity of the jobs of the Basque public service. It's curious; that law would have to go to exactly the same commission that you say it's stuck and in which nothing comes out, and it's supposed to come after the one you already presented us in February this year. Why do you trust that a law that goes to the same commission will come forward? – which is the fault of parliamentarians who are not being dealt with – and this one, which comes later, will come forward before the end of the legislature? Why do you have two solutions to the same problem in two different bills that are going to bring to the government in the same year? Because I sincerely believe, Mr Erkoreka, that in the matter of the public service we were caught up in the last legislature and are being fooled in this one. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u7	Mr. Arbulus, it's respectable not to share the tools we've put on for the purpose and solution. I respect him. But I would like to point out that he has all the legal guarantees, and that it is a common instrument, used by all the world, to remedy the condition of our exceptions. Besides, this instrument... You said there's no fundamental law. But I want to remind you, on the one hand, that in Spain, in the bill of 2017 budgets, and in 2018, it was agreed on the law of budgets, and, on the other hand, that EBEP is also there as a fundamental law. So there's no way out of that. But, well, it's respectable that you don't share it. And, on the other hand, I wanted to tell you they didn't call anybody. Here it seems to be the motto of the Government: "Glorine means my rules and my ball, and as I say, and when I say so." And out of there, there's no deal. This government doesn't seem to know what dialogue, negotiation and agreement are. And they didn't call anyone. And it is also an example of this, as you have said very well, that we speak of the bill of legislation which is locked by them. Why? Because they were not able to negotiate in the general table, and after that they were not able to engage in conversation with any of these parties. How then can they have boldness in the legislature to unlock it, if it be their own presidency? But while what? In the mean time, public systems lose, public services lose, because in the end the public system, the backbones of public services, are laborers; And it seems that we have a sense, or the impression that the government transfers to them is that public system is a burden, because it is a burden, and then it gives them a balance to resist it. And, after all, they are incapable of resisting the condition created by the model of opposition applied to them. So we've got the situation we've got. And if we continue this way, if it is no longer corrupted, the situation will be intolerable. But you're very conscious of it. What passes is that you don't share stability, either in the public or in the private area, because you have another pattern around your job model. It's allowed. But, Klaro, we're talking about the public system, and the public system has a responsibility and responsibility to guarantee the services of the community: education, membership, social policy, etc. So the subject is very important, very important. And today, Mr. Erkoreka, we wanted to put a tool in the hands of all the teams so that we could agree with them all. And perhaps we wouldn't have agreed in so many matters, but if we were allowed to transfer, there was a chance of getting along. And here we were open, and I said that we should be able here to cope with the union and all the parties for five years against the provisional, set up a soil, change a contracting model, start changing the official model and adapt it to new times. Need is needed. The instrument has been very obsolete. And that must begin to change, and the longer it begins, the worse it begins. But what's no good, as I said before, is to create a message against officials to justify anything, and that's what he's doing. And there are a lot of things in the civil servant to change? Sure. That privileges should be removed? Sure. Is that supposed to be twice? Sure. But first, we have to place a soil. We have to set a floor. We have to define the standard of agreement between us all well, and there is a chance of doing so well. Yeah? Then we offered a way, and it was a pity. But it seems to me, from where the Government can come from, that the regulations which were in the law of the public function may appear to be there, how the provisional element is understood, and how to persist in its stability. And those employments, either without code, or in secret; but those which exist in the day, and are employed in labour, do not desire to appear, and only to confine themselves to a settled position. Let's go see. We again stretch our hand; one means, because we need an instrument to face the condition of our exceptions. It must be settled as soon as possible, and we all need it, because we are at last speaking of the public system, of the system which guarantees the rights of all. So we should watch it, we should study it, and, above all, we have to put tools in order to make the system truly good, strong, effective, and updated. And the time of the patches must be ended. We need structural answers here, politics is what we need to do, we need to make a contraction policy, and here, the boss, there's no question about it, it's fun. But we won't deny our responsibility, and we'll go on making proposals because this subject is important, because it's very important, and because we've left it for many years without getting to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In Duplin, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ubera, it really is not clear to me – and I am telling you very seriously – that your initiative today has sufficient legal guarantees, and, in the end, applying it could lead us to have a much worse situation than we are living in, which is already quite bad. You know that if there is a sector that usually ends up defending its interests in the courts, it is precisely the public service sector. And history tells us, recent history, and recent history within the Community clearly tells us that when things have been done wrong the solutions have been much more painful than if they had been done right from the start: OPEs appealed, OPEs who come to court and are annulled, which represent a fundamental change within sectors of the administration and a misadjustment for all those who had seen with good intention their problems solved by presenting themselves to the examinations and obtaining a place they have subsequently lost, and the competition for rights comes in, that right to access to the public service and the rights acquired as a worker. And here come all the problems, and that is why I say to you, Mrs Ubera, that I do not believe that the solution you propose to this problem has sufficient legal guarantees. I believe that it is a serious enough problem for the Government to have to put forward a genuine, legally well-armed initiative, so that the start-up does not end up destroying the lives of many of the workers in the Basque civil service. And that is, if we consider that the government intends to end this problem, because neither does this legislature seem to have done anything to do with it, nor does the previous one – neither does the previous one? Thank you, Mr. lehendakari. That is, that we have three rather disastrous legislatures in the hands of the partners of the current government, which do not put an end to this problem of interinity. And one wonders whether it is Parliament's fault, whether it does not want to solve the problem, or whether this situation of indwelling and precariousness in public employment is also of interest to the successive governments of this Community in order, in some way, to solve the problems they have elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. Everybody ready? We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 45; the Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u11	So the bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u12	Good morning, everyone. Egun where you're going. We have not supported taking into account the proposed law submitted by EH Bildu on the stability of public employment, mainly because this Parliament already has in its power a bill submitted by the Government on this very issue, on public employment. In particular, it is the Public Employment Act, which already provides for this regulation of consolidation processes in order to give stability to public employees and reduce that endemic evil of administrations, which is the high rate of temporaryity, which shares both the preamble of the bill and that of the bill submitted to this House. This bill, submitted by the Government, as reflected in its explanatory statement, is intertwined with the necessary process of rationalization and modernization of the public service, an ambitious one that maintains elements of the current model, but proposes substantive changes, such as those relating to public management, management and structure of public employment, career, performance evaluation or pay system. It is a project that will also enable – and Mrs Ubera knows it – to activate more innovative elements. All this with a clear objective that we seem to share in this forum, which is the improvement of the quality of Basque public employment. Public employment is pursued with a high degree of professionalization, impartial, responsible for managing its results. A bill that, of course, is not comparable, from our perspective, with the proposal submitted by EH Bildu. We Socialists do not share the statement that the provisions of the Public Employment Bill are not effective in consolidating public employment, because, as is also reflected in the Government's view, beyond this statement of intent which brings the proposed law into a three-page explanatory statement, EH Bildu is a mutilated, unsecured and technically defective copy of the provisions contained in the Government Bill. If it is intended to say that the purpose of the bill is to build a good solid system, a close and effective model, and it is believed that that can be done in four articles and five provisions, what we are doing is simply cheating. It is a proposal that does not have the copyright of the presenters, in which they have simply dedicated themselves to copying a paragraph yes and four paragraphs not from the text already submitted by the Government to a specific extent. A legislative technique which, of course, the Socialist Group is not going to validate. Nor have we supported this curious way of amending a bill that is currently under way in this Parliament, because you know it perfectly well; if you disagree with the instruments that are already included in the bill, you will be able to present your proposals for improvement that you understand necessary from the perspective that you have of how to create that solid, close and effective model that you seek in these four articles. What is, of course, innovative – and that has seemed to us – is to do it backwards. And I would like to explain that it is intended that part of a bill already submitted for later this very bill be incorporated into the text of the bill as a genuine advance amendment. Actually, it doesn't seem like a good procedure, not even a good option. I could go into other details of the proposal which are also referred to in the Government's approach, but I do not think that is necessary, because some of us have had the opportunity to read it in detail. I am sure that those of us who have come down to this rostrum have done so, and any of your ladies and gentlemen can do so if you wish, by consulting the file that is available on Parliament's website. I will conclude my speech by stating that the Socialists believe it is necessary to regulate the processes of staff consolidation, that the Basque Administration cannot afford to lose knowledge of the human capital of so many officials who are acting because of circumstances beyond their control, people who have developed their functions with professionalism and dedication even despite the long interinity to which they are being subjected. And therefore, we believe that if the groups really are not a leader or fill out an intervention in this forum, but rather that what we want is to consolidate jobs, stabilize the situation of public employment and ensure the good doing of civil servants, what we parliamentarians should do is to develop our good doing as well and get to work, having the will to move forward in the processing and adoption of the bill on public employment referred to. Sometimes I think the challenges scare us. There was talk of opening doors to dialogue and agreement. It is the parliamentary groups, not the Government, that have to do so at the moment. Are you for this work, or will we entangle and wander as we are doing in other bills? I hope this isn't another case we've been seeing lately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u14	Good morning, congressmen. I will stick to the explanation of vote, because what we do not share, of course, is to use an explanation of vote round to enter into discussion directly with the proposing group, which in this case does not have the capacity to reply. We have voted in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law, despite the shortcomings and inconcretions which in our opinion reflect its articulation. But, nevertheless, we do share the direction to which the proposed law points. A favourable vote, even though we agree with one of the arguments put forward by the Government in its opinion. In particular, our parliamentary group believes that the issue on which it intends to legislate this proposal should be addressed in the future. Public Employment Act. The content of the proposal should be included in the proposal through amendments to the Public Employment Act. The very proposal that has been put to us and that we have voted on reflects in its final provision that its wording should be included in that Public Employment Act. Even so, as I said, our coalition has voted in favour of consideration for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, because the Public Employment Act is stuck – or, rather, is stuck with it by the government and the groups that support it – and it does not seem that the Basque Government is too fond of the approaches that the various trade unions have been making in this regard. And maybe that's one of the reasons why we don't know if this law will finally be able to see the light. The Government does not seem to be achieving the necessary agreements with trade unions and knows that it is in a parliamentary minority situation. And that, in our opinion, is making the Public Employment Act not move forward decisively. Surely, if the Government had been able to move the Public Employment Act forward with the necessary agreements with the trade union centres, today we would not be faced with this bill. Secondly, we voted in favour of the consideration because we share the aim of it. The consolidation of the public system, based on the stability of the working people, is an objective that we share and that goes so far as to eliminate the structural and disproportionate rate of interinity that exists. This objective, which is absolutely necessary in our view, makes it impossible for our coalition to abstain from consideration, despite the fact that it perceives significant shortcomings in the wording of the proposal. The high rate of temporaryity, of interinity of our public administration is unacceptable and we are called upon to take measures, including legislative measures, such as the one proposed with the aim of significantly reducing the instability of workers in the public administration and ensuring both stability in public jobs and better public services. In addition, the Government has failed to comply with agreements and commitments with trade unions in this area for almost a decade, while maintaining similar rates of temporaryity. And that must make political groups proactive in addressing this outstanding issue and not shield us only in the collective negotiation that has already taken place. We have therefore decided to vote in favour, then, if it is adopted, which has not finally been adopted, to introduce in the form of amendments the changes which in our view should include the proposed law, so that it can be developed effectively and with absolute respect for collective bargaining and trade union participation in this matter. In any case, we believe that the subject matter proposed by the proposal should be included in that future Basque Public Employment Act, just as the initiative we have voted on is reflected in its final provision. In short, our vote in favour is based on a predisposition of our parliamentary group to deal legislatively with the question of temporality in public employment and on the delay brought about by the Basque Public Employment Act, despite this consideration of lack of concreteness in the wording of the proposal. That's all. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours. largue of the Aranguren Our legal circle has long been defended, like the Euskal AEskon, by taking advantage of the talent and stability of the thousands of people who work in euskal administration, always retaining the rights and principles of equality, merit and ability. And this is not hypocrisy, it is reality, and it is clearly seen in the OPEs that are and are being made. So we agree with the purpose of this enterprise, not with the diagnosis, that we cannot be reconciled to the diagnosis, and so we believe that it must be our end to limit the provisional employment of the European public administrations, and continue to stabilize employment. And for that we need a new legal frame that will penetrate into the frame of our public function. And to agree on this isn't much. But we cannot agree with the form and content proposed by the initiative, because, in our opinion, the fundamental exactness and assurance are wanting. That's why we voted against taking over this bill in the same sense as the opinion that EuskMAN ARMORY had given us on November 5th. The Basque Civil Service Council, at its meeting on 12 November, has given a green light to the preliminary draft law on bodies and scales, which is expected to include the provisions for the consolidation of employment, which until now have been contained and continue to be contained in the law, in the draft law on public employment which has been referred to the Government; in particular, transitional provisions 19a and 20a. This is done in order to ensure that these consolidation provisions can be in force for the massive OPEs that are planned from 2020 onwards in all public administrations. The scope of these provisions is intended to be all Basque public administrations, not just the general administration or the Basque Government. This path is chosen from the draft law on bodies and scales because, in addition to being in the final phase of processing, it is understood that it is a simpler and more technical law, which can allow these consolidation procedures to be in force for the aforementioned OPEs. And this form, this proposal, this form that the Government is proposing, we believe that it has the necessary guarantees that it does not have the initiative that has been taken into consideration today. It has a proper procedure, it has followed the proper procedure, it has followed the negotiation, it has had trade union negotiations, and it has even had majority support from the trade unions, and it also has the legal certainty granted to it by the favourable opinions of the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission (COJUA), which are contained in the file. It is striking, as has been mentioned and as reflected in the Government's view, that the proposed group is inefficient in the consolidation provisions contained in the Public Employment Bill and, however, now proposes a reply to our misconception or without sufficient guarantees. And, on the other hand, it is also striking the procedure that he proposes, which is that, after that, his proposal for a law be included in the Public Employment Act, rather than using the ordinary channel, which would be that of the amendments. And what would be sarcastic is that the Government, including a group that supports the Government, should be accused of obstructing the processing of a Government bill and then using this, the way of another initiative, so that those consolidation provisions can be in place. Indeed, every day we see that the pace of legislative initiatives is not the same. Thus, the Government's proposal has the endorsement of the COJUA; it says that it conforms to the law, because it has a normative background, because it respects the basic regulations, the Staff Regulations and the budgetary laws for the financial years 2017 and 2018 regarding replacement rates and other additional rates, and, in addition, it conforms to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. In addition, we believe that the initiative that has been taken into consideration today is not sufficiently concrete. It does not set time limits or percentages, unlike the Government's proposal, which sets a minimum of 40 per cent of interinity in the necessary groups and a minimum of 8 years of age in order to be able to access them. Without these concretions, it is understood that the risk of challenge increases and that it is ultimately the courts who would determine what has not been determined in the norm, as we see every day in the jurisprudence. And, moreover, no one escapes – this is neither the will nor the question of political will – the surveillance of the State to which we are subjected, to which the activity of all the autonomous communities is subject, and, in particular, the activity of the Basque public service, because sometimes it has been possible to resolve with the proper cooperation between administrations. But now it seems that the threat of recourse to unconstitutionality increases when in the Spanish Parliament a group has been represented which, with more than 50 Members, threatens to use the technique of recourse to unconstitutionality indiscriminately. And, in addition, the government's proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u15	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u16	... unlike the proposal that has been submitted for consideration today, it has had trade union negotiation and support. It is understood that many would want more, but they have understood that, out of responsibility and realism, it is better bird in hand than hundreds flying. We therefore believe that we share the objective of the proposal that has been put forward today to take account of stabilising employment and the need for a new legal framework, not diagnosis, because the current proposal lacks the necessary guarantees. We understand that the way is the proposal that is expected to come to Parliament shortly. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The second point in the subject list. "Phum up the other bill of parliamentary teams, to encourage public expenses and investments on a new prosecution and finance page. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Pindo, the representative of the EHG, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. To-day, for the development of our society and economy, we place on the table a subject, which is, after all, fundamental to the construction of our people: the impulse to encourage economic policies in order to strengthen the social panic, to change the production model, or to respond to the challenge which the ecological transition itself brings, after all, to supply the impulse to public expenditure and investments so necessary to accomplish all this. In the last few years, strict policies of austerity have been established in the European Union have been questioned. Some of us have long said that these Australian policies didn't bring anything good, and that economic control can't be above people's rights, but for their sakes. Based on internal and external factors, what perceptions in the data are shaking the ghost of economic retroactive retrospect and lighting alarm signals throughout Europe. Perhaps the most striking example is the case with Germany, which is called the European locomotive. He's not in the recession, but he's exposed to the need to take precautions to give strength to that locomotive. In this situation, there are more and more voices which abandon the policy of competition and demand new economic policies. In fact, it is not only those who have hitherto denounced the deficiencies and disadvantageous influences of the European Union, but many who have been drawn to the side of the extemporary precision are demanding the leadership and the impulse of the public sector. Mr. Draghi, before leaving the presidency of the Bank of Europe, and having established several measures of currency, has plainly told governments that are not in debt to increase public expense and investments, to provide the economy of life. Even the president of the Eurogroup, Mr Centeno, said recently: "We must not take austerity-oriented measures, which would make the situation worse. We must not repeat the mistakes of the past." Therefore, even the bodies that defended fervently "Servely" fiscal policies that have sacrificed the control of deficit, debt and public spending to such a limit that they have strangled complete economies and have clearly eroded public policies at the service of the people have seen that we must already react with public, expansive and bold policies that serve to aggravate the economy. From Euskal Herria Bildu we have been defending for a long time that fiscal and financial policies must be turned around; that, as the Berlin Institute for Economic Research said, clinging to the zero deficit as an end in itself would be a fundamental mistake. Saving when the economy is weakened only increases problems. Making public management responsible and controlling deficit, debt and spending are actions that must support public policies that serve to generate development in the economy and meet the real social needs, and cannot be a ballast or a straitjacket that prevents us from responding to the reality of our country as it should be. They're tools. Deficit and debt are tools and should not be the main objective of public policies; they should serve to respond to economic and social challenges. These principles which are fundamental are equally applicable to us. Our economy has options, euscal society can have a better future, and that is why public policies must make a way. Public activity must use all economic tools to enable all that. For many years have been lost to make our own transition. With the consent of some of the EAE governments, and of others, the measures imposed by Spain to answer its wrong condition, have been applied to us without distinction. The financial state of the EAE administration, as we have insisted on, enables the attorney and financial policy to take other measures. We have a choice and need to strengthen the investments and expenditures, leave the reductions and paralysia that have been exposed for years and form the ecological challenges, industrial or socioboral challenges. To face these popular challenges, it is absolutely necessary that all tools are available. We need to discuss a new Εmperor and finance page that will respond to our economic situation. We know better than we know what the phrencies are which prevent us from advancing, although the financial difficulties enables us to advance this step: The limits imposed by the government of the state, without doubt applying the bounds of the lordships. These limits are a great obstacle to the growth of the people. One of the main objectives of the last governments of the State has been to turn extreme fiscal austerity, a policy that has proved unsuccessful, into a legal obligation. To this end, the first step was the reform of article 135 of the Constitution, with "agst" and affluence, agreed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the PP in 2011, which gave priority to paying the debt over any other public expenditure. And then, in 2012, the PP government took advantage of its absolute majority to pass the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, a law that is the legal form of that famous article 135. This law is the one that, in practice, strangles the possibilities for the development of the Basque economy. The application of this law by successive governments of the State and the failure to exploit the potentialities of the framework of the Economic Concert by the various Basque governments, also in the issues of deficit and debt and the rule of spending, are what has brought us to today's situation. Europe has a stability framework – I know, we know it – which must be changed, no doubt, but do not endorse what is the responsibility of Madrid and Vitoria in Europe. Europe defines a framework for the states, and in this case, the Spanish State, through the Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, has decided on its own how it tries to comply with it; it seems, with little success, the truth, reserving for the central administration the largest margins, both of deficit and debt. Europe talks about structural surplus or balance, the limit to the ratio of public debt to GDP by 60% and the reference value – reference value – for expenditure, which indicates the rate of growth of public expenditure to which the states have to approach. It's a benchmark. But the Common-wealth, is he that hath determined the mark of Deficition, the mark of Disputation, and the present condition, which is really the greatest obstacle: the expense rule. It's not Europe, it's the Spanish State. The expenditure rule which the state imposes is not properly defined by Europe, y me explico. The European expenditure rule applies to all public administrations in a state, not to each of the public administrations. It does not apply until the State has opened an excessive deficit procedure, a procedure, by the way, which the Spanish State has opened until quite a few days ago. And, unlike the Spanish State, this does not always apply, since it is not an objective; its non-compliance has no sanctioning consequences, unlike the Spanish State, which would only trigger if there is a deviation from the medium-term objective. Therefore, the Spanish expenditure rule is not exactly Europe's expenditure rule. If this is the case, it's clear we're going to take measures at the EH Collectation. It is evident that changes must be made in the degree of Europe, and we shall certainly work on it. But there are other measures that we have to take here to deal with the economic slowing that is already a reality. We must have all the tools available today, because it may be late tomorrow. We've heard recently the chairman of the Sub-Azus, the President himself, and other voices, proclaiming the necessity of opening an opportunity to encourage the public investment, to restore the economy. Well, let's make the way. 'Tis a proposition to pass from words to actions, which we here set here to-day upon the table. Let's do the responsible management of the situation here, considering the economic conditions here, a new attorney and financier route to encourage public expenses and investments, and negotiate with the State in the framework of the Economic Concera. It's possible, it's possible. This impulse is essential, because we are following it in so many matters as the President himself says they are fundamental: In the struggle against poverty or in the pursuit and development, for instance. I told the advisor: let us put our financial autonomy into practice and demand from the State the tools our economy has to respond with solvency to what is coming, because regretting is not going to be enough. But it doesn't look like it's going to be today; it looks like today's not the day. Although we have made an attempt, a real attempt to bring positions closer together, you, PNV and the Socialist Party, have not moved at all. The parties that support the Government prefer to continue to call on others and not to act; they prefer to continue to make complaints about increased investment capacities in public events and not to sit down and work on a new financial and fiscal roadmap that drives the spending and public investment that is so much needed to cement the economic development and future of Basque society. We have put on the table a proposal with clear will to agree, because we firmly believe that this is an issue that requires a country agreement. But they have decided to stay where always, to keep the discourse that nothing else can be done, that this is the established framework, and that is it. But even within that established framework, there is room for more. But you prefer to continue as usual. Apparently, Mr. Azpiazu's shirt of strength doesn't go so bad; it doesn't pull them out of the armpit enough. The proposition which we have made, with regard to responsibility and reality, confessing partiality, and putting it in our financial autonomy, gives us the opportunity to do more. But today, the sects that support it, prefer to throw the balls out and reject their own responsibility. They would rather deliver it into the hands of the Common-wealth, than take care to take the definition of those instruments, which this people shall have to answer to. And unfortunately, from Madrid, we know better than Rangoon, nothing's good. The new winds come from Europe, and the chief physician says he joins them, and that sounds good. But when we have put a measured proposition on the table to which this music was to be written today, what is the answer? Immobilism. That's the answer to the teams that support the government. The slowing of economics is a reality. The Euscal society and economy are necessary, and the sects which maintain this government will today call it a negative refusal to enlarge the means of satisfying them. Then we'll be all right, all right? He'll draw the cultural pharmacial frame as an excuse. But today, we know that you're here because we've offered you a chance to spread your shirt, but, to be honest, you're not so uncomfortable with the tailor in Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, it's clear that the Australians didn't bring anything good for our population. And we have often said that these policies have abandoned the social defense to the financial fund. And that, to our team, as we have often remarked, has been a serious problem during the past few years. But it's true, too, we still have plenty to do. And if I get something out of this, it's like four of the five parties, we're gonna have to go against all these Australian policies today. At least I hope so. I don't know why we four parties couldn't stand against them in the same way, because there was a chance, and the opportunity was very close. And our intention has always been to give income a democratic, just sense, and a social sense. And, with this proposal, which is not the first one we are discussing in this House, I think we are trying to make progress on this democratization of public revenue and expenditure. I said in this same rostrum on March 1, 2018, already a year and a half ago, that Basque citizens want budgetary stability, as it could not otherwise be, but also want budgetary stability that is not in conflict with social investment. And this is as simple as the taxes that we pay all people are directed, destined to improve the life of the citizenry. And we do have to amortize debt, and we do amortize debt. But in Elkarrekin We can make it clear that, if the dichotomy were between that or to keep public education free and of quality, attention to dependency, emergency aid or Osakidetza, the debt should wait a bit, because we do not want the social deficit to be subordinated to the financial deficit in our institutions. And we do not have to look too far back to see that during all these years governments and local institutions have made cuts that have been made with the great social majority of citizens. Some will say that there was nothing left but to cut, and others will say that those cuts should have been made from above and not from below. But the point is that now, today, we have the opportunity to look to the future so that the same mistakes of the past are not repeated; we have the opportunity to show that mistakes are learned. And I know that sometimes it is frivolous to talk about mistakes to refer to austerity policies, to cuts, in short, that have taken people's lives ahead. But I repeat: we have the opportunity to amend all the years of Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government and to put public policies at the service of the citizenry. And it is no longer that Elkarrekin We can say it or that Mrs Pinedo says it, as she has said before; it is the IMF itself that today recognizes its error in demanding austerity that has liquidated growth and led millions of families to vulnerability through unjust cuts. And, therefore, our commitment, in the face of an economic crisis, must be to strengthen public investment, so that it can generate employment and dynamism in the economy; that it can also, through public spending, direct our economy towards the challenges of the twenty-first century, towards an economy with a green horizon, a purple horizon, and an economy of digitisation. And, therefore, the challenge we still have today is even wider than the challenge we had in 2008. Firstly, we have a duty to protect citizens from the coming economic crisis. And it's that all the data shows us that we're in the foreground of an economic crisis. We can talk here about external demand, we can talk about internal demand, we can talk about savings or we can talk about job creation; I don't care. It doesn't matter what economic variable we choose, what we're talking about, that each and every one of them has been going down and showing great signs of vulnerability. It is undeniable that we face a year 2020, and subsequent years, in which both businesses and families in Euskadi will be more vulnerable than they have been in this year 2019. But we also have to bear in mind that our citizens will have to face this situation in worse conditions, in worse conditions than they faced in 2008. And, for example, three very simple examples. First, today's unemployment rate almost triples the unemployment rate in years prior to the 2008 crisis. Secondly, poverty and social inequality rates have increased markedly. The rate of people living in relative poverty has increased by 20.2 per cent over the past 10 years, and the rate of people living in severe poverty has increased by 64.9 per cent in just 10 years. Thirdly, 21.5 % of Euskadi's families cannot save a single euro per month, while 35.5 % can save only less than 200 euro per month. That is, the people in Euskadi have run out of the mattress they were facing in the past crisis. During this decade they have eaten their savings and will have to face this new period of uncertainty without that vital shield that is to have some money saved for unforeseen. It is therefore clear that action must be taken. Public action must be taken to protect the people we live here. Measures must be taken to protect families and small and medium-sized enterprises from the turbulence of the world economy. But we also have a challenge that is already indispensable, and that is that we have to lay the groundwork for Euskadi to be able to meet the challenges we face as a country for the twenty-first century. And we're late for this challenge. Better late than never, but we can't let any more time pass. We must take the bull by the horns and propose solutions to achieve real and effective equality between women and men, to face the energy transition that our industry and our families need, and to end once and for all with the two-speed Euskadi that materializes in a clear social and territorial gap. In the coming years, budgetary stability will require resources; new revenue will be needed to offset the decline in revenue collection. But these revenues cannot be obtained in any way: they must be obtained in a fair manner, where those who have the most pay more. And this is the first pillar of social justice and equal opportunities in a country. They have been saying and writing manifestos for years rich people in the United States, France or Germany, who want to pay more taxes because they currently pay few, because nowadays the one who has the most is the one who pays the least. And, in Euskadi, even if the rich do not say so, they should also pay more, because, while a worker who earns 1,800 euros net per month pays 17%, a person with a wealth of more than 12 million euros pays only 2%. And that is why in the coming years we will need to continue to move towards greater fiscal justice. But it is because of the need for fiscal justice that not only does Elkarrekin advocate, but Euskal Herria Bildu advocates, but also because of the need for fiscal justice, Mr Azpiazu himself has spoken on several occasions, saying that there is still a way to go in front of the European Union's average. In any case, we should also not be fooled. As long as we have the sword of Damocles of Organic Law 2/2012, of Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, it will be difficult for the limits of debt deficit and expenditure to meet the needs of Basque citizens. We know that Law 2/2012 is a straitjacket – which never had to be worn – to cut people who were going through the worst. That is why our group believes that it is now time to take it away from us so that we can use the political tools of our self-government in favour of the vast majority of our country. We are also aware that the reform of Law 2/2012 cannot be carried out from Euskadi, but we are also aware of the importance of this Parliament showing its disagreement with this unjust law and of the need to reform it. We therefore appeal to the groups in the House to support the compromise we have reached with the Euskal Herria Bildu Group on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u22	Thank you, Madam President. We are witnessing a somewhat surprising debate of financial and fiscal demagogy, especially because of the position of the groups supporting the Government, which even some forget that they have been ruling in Spain for a year and a half. Apparently, everyone here is in opposition. No one rules; neither the PNV nor the PSOE have ruled in the Basque Country, nor the PSOE has been ruling in Spain for the past year and a half. And I say fiscal and financial demagogy because, you see, we are in favour of staying in the euro. I understand that there are those here who yearn for the peseta and tell us that the rules of budgetary stability and the European fiscal pact must be breached. But we are in favour of the euro; we are in favour of continuing in monetary union. Yes, yes, yes, Mrs. Pinedo, yes. And then I am more surprised than the four groups that are partners in almost all parts, including in Madrid, to present virtually the same thing but vote separately. And I will explain, because it is surprising that both the PNV and the Socialist Party reject the extreme austerity policies that have been in force for years in the European Union and here they forget that it was Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, supported by the Basque Nationalist Party, who arrived at the fiscal pact in Europe, because the economic crisis was about to get ahead of the euro; that it was Mr Rodríguez Zapatero who proposed the reform of the Constitution, which was reformed, and that this reform said that the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, which is the one that is in force, had to be adopted. And that's where we came from. And, Mrs Pinedo, this is not decided in Madrid. Now, don't you guys like that? That's right, but you can start with... I don't know, the Socialist Party is in the government of Spain. It's been a year and a half. I don't know what Mr. Sanchez is doing. They may propose that the European Union amend the fiscal pact; they may propose that the European Union amend the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Union; and they may propose the amendment of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. And while you, who are in the Government of Spain, do not do that, I do not know what you are voting for which you are against the policies which you have agreed in Brussels and (b) which you continue to maintain from the Government of Spain, supported by those gentlemen, who also, by the way, say the same thing as you, which does not cease to be paradoxical, paradoxical. And I say this debate is false, because... And, well, the government thing is, it's for the record. I mean, it was called "new tax road map." Hey, and in the government's amendment, the tax word taxes What about the government? What about the PNV and the PSOE? Because today we have breakfast with Mr Azpiazu saying that they open the door to eliminate the property tax; that is yes, going up the IRPF. What is this government's fiscal policy, if any, if any? Or, as the PNV supports the Socialist Party in Madrid and Mr Sánchez, who is and has already proposed fiscal recentralisation, which, apparently, now seems fantastic to the PNV of the nerves that the Government of Spain has all the fiscal powers in the aforementioned autonomous communities, that is why Mr Azpiazu now says that he is willing to lower the property tax, because he knows that Sánchez will make it compulsory for all Spain with the vote of the PNV? What is the tax policy of the PNV? With this proposal, attract back those who have stopped paying here? That the PNV has been punctuated, therefore, causes strangeness, but, well, in the end, it is politics that is done; that is, here everyone can say one thing. I am witnessing here that Bildu puts you to give birth because you don't agree with them, and so on, but it is that you raise the same thing: the first paragraph is the same, and the second paragraph is the same. What is required to amend the Organic Stability Act? Well, change it. Didn't they have a majority? Didn't they make an OPA against Mariano Rajoy and they had that majority to make? Why didn't they? Why don't they? Why don't they? Mrs Pinedo tells us that we have a margin of surplus. I mean, Mr Sánchez, every time he sends a draft budget to Brussels, they give it back to him, saying, "You have again suspended." And, Mrs Pinedo, this is that the deficit is a tool, no; the deficit is a fact, it is the fact that it means that you have more expenditure than income. I'm sure you at home don't apply it. I'm sure you don't spend more money than you get in; I'm sure. And I don't know why you want the others, the other Basques to spend more money than we have. Why is what is good for you in your home bad for the rest? He talks to me about Germany. Look, Germany's problems are for Mr Trump's wars against tariffs, and for the war on tariffs that he has posed to everyone. Now you're talking about Draghi, Guindos and everyone, and what did everyone say? That the countries of the Union which do not have too much debt lower taxes on citizens; yes, yes, yes, they lower taxes on citizens; and, secondly, that they invest more. Now, is this government, your investment what it is, buying stock listings at Bildu and Podemos's proposal? Is that the investment you're making? Because that's what they approved the other day. Is that the investment? And, Mr Bollain, you are right: all the indicators go down, but in the budgets that the Basque Government has brought it says: "We trust everything to increase domestic demand, because exports already see that they are not going to serve". Listen, and how does a government, what measures does a government have to increase that domestic demand, so that citizens can consume more, so that citizens can pull out of the economy, when you have a surplus in two and a half years of 2 billion euros left over from the Basque government? Look, people were taxed, especially middle and low incomes, which are the ones who pay, Mr Bollain, which you have forgotten. His amendment was just... That no, that these are not the ones who always pay... Yes, they're the ones who always pay, because here the demagogy is that they're going to pay the rich, who are all in Madrid, right? They've already gone to Madrid. What do the rich pay here? Apart from the rich rich... at last, I think the richest person in Spain, who lives in Galicia, to see, I don't know if he will have a salary; I doubt that he has put on a salary and that for that salary he makes a contribution for the IRPF. But, well, Mr Azpiazu's proposals, pummeled to the top, demagogue to the top: "let's go up to the rich, pay taxes." And that's how we are. Man, and the social injustice posed by Mr Bollain, which is that the one who saves must be shaken. That is the property tax, which does not exist in any euro country, in any of them. You could ask yourself why what you pose and now apply it, listen, neither in Greece, nor in Greece, which was your reference; nor in Greece. And this government... let's see, we have made an amendment. We have made an amendment. And it is also an amendment that is consistent with what this Government is proposing with the budgets it has brought us. Domestic demand must be fostered. Listen, so lower the IRPF to low and middle incomes; lower it, which has surplus, 2 billion in two and a half years. "Investments must be increased." EUR 800 million less brings this budget that this government has brought us. It is a budget lower than 2018, to be implemented in 2018, by 2020. More than 50% of the money available is going to pay civil servants' salaries, and the rest, the current expenditure. What action has this Government taken? Since we are, the economy is going down. What measure does it bring, what measure does it propose – fiscal, economic, investment – apart from buying shares of Euskaltel in a stock exchange, which will get us out of the poor? What measure does it propose? None. And his amendment, in a debate that was supposed to be fiscal, therefore, turns out that taxation has nothing, but it is no wonder that it has nothing, since, in fact, neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor the Socialist Party have fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u24	Yes, thank you, President. Well, in the face of the original initiative of Bildu, the Basque Socialists, together with the Basque Nationalists, have made an amendment, we have proposed an amendment to the whole, so that we urge Parliament to reject those policies of extreme austerity that had been in force for many years in the European Union, because we believe that those measures that were implemented at the harshest moments of the crisis only worked in economics, without taking into account the social consequences for the most vulnerable groups. In this latest economic crisis, which was also a social crisis, a financial crisis, the economy was imposed on politics. And it left on the path qualified unemployment, unqualified unemployment, exponential increases in situations of risk of social exclusion and cuts in public policies that undermined and questioned the state of well-being. The policies adopted in Europe by the crisis that occurred were discussed in this House through initiatives on meeting deficit targets in the Basque Country, on adapting to the principles of budgetary stability and financial sustainability; initiatives on a fiscal policy to ensure a state of undiminished well-being; initiatives on requirements to develop a balanced and sustainable fiscal policy; initiatives on the measures needed in view of fiscal collection data for 2016. And, in this eleventh parliamentary term, in which we are now, we have discussed initiatives on what to do with the surplus collection, on tax reform, on the available credit resulting from VAT adjustments, on the measures of the Basque Government to respond to the new challenges. That is to say, this debate is neither new nor from now on, but it comes from far away. And, in all the debates, we have always referred to the classification of austerity measures from Europe as extreme and unjust measures, policies imposed from a pure and harsh economic and financial perspective, without taking into account the need to adopt measures to protect the state of well-being. Those policies were imposed at the most critical, toughest moments, and then they were softening and adapting, more or less correctly on the part of the European institutions, to the conjuncture that the different European states were going through. Today we are not in the wake of a crisis like the one we experienced a few years ago. We are facing a cycle of economic slowdown, and, from what we have learned and because the financial circumstances are also not those of 2008-2009, the policies will not have that strain of extreme austerity. And it will also depend on who wins the pulses in the European Central Bank – whether doves or hawks – that the measures that will be applied not only for Europe, but for all states will be more or less hardened. And we also want the Basque Socialists, with our amendment, to tackle from the beginning of responsibility a new European policy that combines in a more balanced way the control of the public deficit and the necessary economic reactivation measures for the generation of employment. It is good that, in the face of a scenario of deceleration, new economic incentives are being proposed by the European authorities, as has been the case. And Euskadi has also taken into account these possible new formulations, putting into the budgets for 2020 commitments for guarantees and improvements in public policies and social policies, further enhancing economic development and employment, maintaining and strengthening public investment, and all this within the framework of budgetary stability and financial sustainability, in addition to having the economic instruments that we own in Euskadi in this approach of the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for 2020. And these actions are marked, according to the economic guidelines for the budget of Euskadi, in the context of a weak advance of economic growth in 2019 and 2020 and of a revision, moreover, to the decrease of growth, which is mainly due to Germany, because its external demand is estimated to be less dynamic than expected. And this is a ballast for investment and for German industry itself. In addition, the Brexit case And European monetary policy is also involved, because the European Central Bank will keep interest rates low during 2019 and 2020, and because it will implement an important package of economic stimulus in the face of the weakening of the European economy. Some of the instruments used by the monetary authority are intervention-type cuts, long-term bank lending operations and the purchase of public bonds, the one that cost a lot, a lot to achieve in the early years of the crisis. However, the margin for monetary policy is becoming smaller and, as a result, Member States are being urged to move fiscal policies forward. In Euskadi, in the area of income – as Mr Damborenea said earlier – what fiscal policy we were carrying out, so I take advantage of it and tell you about it. In Euskadi, we came from a tax reform of 2013 – if you remember, Mr Damborenea, I think you also participated – which has closed your cycle, moreover, in this legislature, seeking a greater adaptation of taxes to the economic situation in which we live. In these last adjustments I think I recall that the People's Party also participated. This also gave institutional stability and allowed for increased collection, primarily to focus on sustaining public services and key issues for economic growth in Euskadi to occur, as well as for an improvement and growth in employment. And it has also been in this legislature that we have had a full monograph on taxation, with broad consensus approaches and resolutions. And next year, in 2020, it is up to us to assess the results of this cycle of fiscal reform that began in 2013, and, surely, new proposals for change will be produced, seeking – at least by the Basque Socialists – to promote and promote measures of economic growth and competitiveness, without losing sight of social cohesion in Euskadi, under the principles of social justice and progressive and distributive taxation. But public spending must also be taken into account in fiscal policy, and in this area it must be pointed out that, in the projects submitted for the 2019 and 2020 budgets by the Basque Government, it was envisaged that social spending would be maintained in parameters that we had never before known, around 77 % of the budget, a public expenditure that the Basque Socialists have focused, moreover, on promoting economic recovery, promoting employment, R & D+i and increasing budgets for education, health and social policies. Public expenditure has been directed towards the implementation of actions to meet the objectives set out in the 15 strategic plans that have been approved in this legislature, strategic plans designed to advance in an economic, socially cohesive and territorially balanced Euskadi. And the last point of our amendment, of the Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists, urges the Government of Spain to reform the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, making it more flexible to apply it effectively to this Basque reality, to ensure also the sustainability of public accounts, respecting the rules of stability. Because you proposed..., Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal was to repeal the law, and by repealing the law we do not advance; we do nothing. We're repealing the law, aren't we? What are you going to tell us in Europe? How are we going to have each other? Then, they have seen ours and decided that, well, it seemed to be more in line with certain parameters, and that is why they proposed in the first part to reform the law. Anyway, it's never wrong to recognize some mistakes. But, look, the Basque Socialists voted against, in 2012, this Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, because we understood that that law should be part of a country agreement; as was the subject of the reform of the Constitution, to which the People's Party joined, to that country agreement. But they did not do the same with this law; they never proposed to the socialists in Spain, in the Congress of Deputies, to reach a country agreement with this organic law. And we saw in 2012 that a broad consensus was needed to achieve that country agreement, because the situation was difficult, because it was complex, not only economically, but also socially and financially. And that truncated the first years of the welfare state, because it was reformed, because there were actually cuts, substantial cuts in public policies. That law, in the early years, was unable to reactivate economic growth at the time of its implementation. And we have proposed this reform of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability because we are convinced that the rigour of public accounts can be reconciled with measures, in turn, that are incentivizing economic activity, and that the state of well-being can be maintained and strengthened. But, for that to happen, we need to talk, we need to debate and we need to negotiate with those who really have the skillet for the handle, and it is the first instance that marks the stage of agreements or possible financial, economic and monetary policies. And that is Europe, that is Europe; that is not the government of the state; that is Europe. A posteriori And that is the difficulty of your agreement, Mrs Pinedo; that is the great difficulty. You put the car before the oxen. And that, then, does not work, because I do not know at all what possible negotiation you leave behind the change or reform of European policies. I do not know who they are actually urging; of course, not Europe, either in its original proposal or in its compromise proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen of the department, good morning. Today's debate is indeed a recurring debate. It is usually brought by Euskal Herria Bildu when budgetary negotiations are already taking place on the horizon; it did so in 2016, 2018 and 2019, in this GNP we are debating today. And we can draw two conclusions: the first, somewhat acritic, which is that Bildu likes spending, regardless of the economic situation; he liked an increase in spending in 2016, in 2013, in 2012, and he likes and proposes an increase in spending in 2019, regardless of the debt that exists, of the Basque economic context, of the European, of the world... He likes spending. And the second is that you start your proposal by criticizing the extreme austerity policies that the European Union has pursued in some countries, which we too in the first point criticise, but then you place the ball on the roof of the Government, asking surreptitiously, with a lot of euphemism and with a calculated ambiguity that does not comply with the law; or, at least, that it eludes itself with instruments that do not exist. I'll read to you literally what you ask, which will surely sound to you. Zuek eskatzen duzuena da zero defizitaren dogma erlatibizatu éta ustu éta inbertsi publikoari Bultzada emateko bilbide-orri fiskal éta finantzario berri bat dyseinatzea, bilbide-orri fiskal éta finantzario berri bat dyseinatzea. Hori Zelan Gauzatzen yes? Bost minutu dauzkazu azaltzeko. Zelan egikaritzen yes? This is a UFO, which is like a UFO but with J: an unidentified legal object. We don't know, we don't know what it is. Then you talk... Gero zuk esaten duzu zero defizitaren dogma daukagula, éta hori ére guk ez dugu ulertzen. Gobernuak ez dunka dogma bat; Gobernuak dunka law bat, konplitu behar duena. Eta guri, bere horretan – this orain pastuko naiz apure bat sakonean aztertzera proposamenenen atzean daden kontuak – bathed gouri nolabaiteko helluru batzuk edukitzea defiit-esparruan ez zaigu txarto iruditzen. Why? Because there is much talk of the damage caused by policies of extreme austerity in countries such as Greece, for example, but it should also be mentioned that those same countries had previously experienced a situation of extreme expenditure. Therefore, as negative is the previous as the post. Both situations are – we understand – negative. And I'm already landing on the bottom of the matter. There are two instruments covered by the 2012 Budget Stability Act, which are the deficit target and the expenditure rule. The deficit target... As I have already said, there is a certain framework which, moreover, is spoken in a certain climate of bilaterality between governments and which varies depending on the economic context is not negative per se. Now, in the spending rule we can carry more inks, because it is true that it is a rule that decides for us where we invest the surplus. And it is true, Mr Damborenea: you, in your proposal, ask us to increase spending – investment, forgiveness. It is true that it has limited us. Last year 54 million euros were invested; this year 100 million euros will be invested in financially sustainable investments... I'm sure if we had had another rule of spending, I'm sure if the law you passed in Congress had been another we would have had more investment. So let me be clear. It is a rule of spending thought equal..., it is a coffee for everyone in the best Spanish tradition, thought equal for a community that has a debt of 12% as for a community that has double or triple. And, therefore, we do ask that it be made more flexible and that account be taken of the fact that there are autonomous communities that have a remarkable capacity for spending; in this case, investment, which would be what we should undertake in a pro-cyclical policy when we are... Because next year we're going to grow by 2%. I remember because it looks like we're going to fall. Mr. Damborenea, you're proposing a cocktail that, at first glance, might seem attractive, right? You say, "Well, we lower taxes, we raise investment, and all that keeping the deficit zero." That's right, to give consistency to your proposal, adds: "We're going to limit public spending; we're going to limit current spending," I understand. Good. But then we number your proposal, because the tax reform proposal has already been made and it has been made explicit in the paths proposed, and we are going to start adding. It's – and I'm going to do conservative calculations – $1.4 billion in IRPF cutbacks. 400 million euros, 400..., well, Mr Azpiazu says 1,500 – I wanted to be careful. Yes, 400 million euros to pay the premium for retired teachers from 2012. More public investment: if we are currently forecasting a public investment of EUR 1,094 million by 2020, how much do we add? 300, 400 more? And then, of course, more resources for families, to encourage birth, aid for reconciliation, more resources for the concerted, than next year will take – if the budgets are approved – 600 million. And all this – we have seen it on the first item on today's agenda – as his colleague has argued, improving the working conditions of public employees. And all of that, changing the vertical distribution ratio between parliaments and government by 10%, and all of that in a zero deficit framework, which forces us to act next year. I say to you: fiscal and financial demagogy; fiscal and financial demagogy, yours. I would be intrigued to know..., I started yesterday saying: let's see, what doesn't the PP like about the policies of the Basque Government? And the first thing that comes to mind is the GIR, which we are going to spend next year – I say again, if the budgets are approved – EUR 449 million. Let's assume that you delete half of the GIR, because I imagine you will still want additional support for pensioners. We're going to remove 225 from the concept of GIR. Later, EITB. They say you take a lot of money. It's going to take 133 million euros next year. Let's take off half, 67 million euros. Let's cut him in half. And then the adult euskaldunization programs, HABE. Well, in total – and I'm inflating the data in your favor, not mine – it's 400 million euros. Tell me how we cover all the gap there is, up to 3,000 or 4 billion euros, which is the sum of everything you propose, if you are consistent with what you say. Well, people as informed as Montoro have already said that Casado's fiscal proposal, which is even more aggressive than his, is not realistic. And, therefore, that is said there. Guk, hausnarketa orokor moduan, eta, galdetzen zigun, you asked us, Mr Damborenea, what the government's fiscal policy is. The government's fiscal policy already knows it, because we have exercised it for the 40 years that we have been democratic, or at least have influenced – a certain degree of influence –: it is maintaining the state of well-being that we currently have without drowning the public sector. That's it. Well, we're talking about the estate tax. Well, the property tax, if it is eliminated – and it is a reflection that I share with Mr Azpiazu – you will have to think that there is still a certain progression. Y, por últo, to make a general reflection, look, we're in a budget negotiation right now. Now we're going to argue, and we're going to start with the corrections. And in 2020, we'll have to perform an evaluation of the previous tax-form, and, after the evacuation, we'll make our proposals, and they'll be discussed in each province. But it's an invitation to do things that are in our power. And, please, in your planning, start from a principle of realism. If not, the discussion will be difficult, and the agreement is still more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u28	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again. Well, I'm gonna try to keep an order. Mr Damborenea, you have addressed the parties supporting the Government in particular. I'm just saying it's not that I don't spend more than I have; it's that they don't let me spend or what I have. That's the problem. At the bottom, Mr. and Mrs. Corcuera, look, the debate isn't new and... we bring him here, you know why? Because there is a problem, and because we see a lack in the activity of this government, and because it doesn't have the intention to have it when Madrid goes away. Look, I used to say to the counselor: "In Madrid you are not going to sit down with the finance minister to have a coffee, and in an hour come back with the same deficit and debt limits as the rest of the common system autonomous communities. A real, real, not postal bilaterality will be exercised and the fiscal and financial autonomy will be respected within the Economic Concert, which is sometimes forgotten by the Basque Autonomous Community." Look, I understand that you like to say that what we want is, well, more or less, almost crazy anarchy and so on, but that's not what we've put on the table. I have said at all times that it was going to be within responsible management, and you know it, because you were present, and today I said again to the councillor: controlling the deficit? Yeah. Amortizing debt? Yeah. But take care of our citizens? Also. Also, Mr. Arruabarrena, too. And that's the problem: that you sometimes forget the things to do. Look... well, the rule of spending and coffee for everyone, there we might agree, but, I insist: you have to go to Madrid to talk, and don't come to me with this as a European framework, because I know the European framework perfectly well. I know European sustainability standards. I know the Six Pack, the Two Pack... I know everything, perfectly. But the reality is that there is a translation through article 135 in the first instance by a later law, which places limits on the autonomous communities and other bodies at the local level. And it's that law that says this autonomous community has to have those limitations, and then it's the turn government that puts them on the line. And it is the turn government that saves for itself the greatest debt and deficit-fulfilment capabilities, which it does not meet. Because it's the lemon pear. I mean, the Spanish government is all day telling others that we do and they don't. Look, by 2019, which is about to close, in relation to the deficit, there is an autonomous community with feasible chances of fulfilling it, and three of very likely. I remind you that there are 17 autonomous communities. In relation to the expenditure rule, 11 with high risk of non-compliance, and three with moderate risk. That is, no autonomous community with plans to comply. And, in relation to debt, there are one or two communities that, perhaps, at best – as the one would say, perhaps, at best, if the sun rises – approach the debt limit. And you tell me the law is about to enforce it. Look, gentlemen of the PNV and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I have not at any time said "non-compliance with the law", because I have done an exercise of rapprochement with your position; not because I like it more or because I like it less, but because I believed that this is a country issue, it is a country issue, and we needed to make a decision. Because the challenges this country is going to face are tremendous challenges, and we cannot be making patches. And it can't be that, one day yes and another too, this government regrets that it can't do more. It can't be. Take the initiative; that is what they are being told: take the initiative. And you are not hiding within the European framework, because that is not true, because, while fulfilling the European framework, you know that there is room. It can be done, it can be done, because the economic and financial reality of this country is different from that of the Spanish State. And you know it, but you don't want to. Because to you – I insist – the shirt of force does not pull you out of the armpit, because you are comfortable with that shirt of force, because you are delighted to have known each other. That is the problem of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. That's the problem you guys have. And then they tell me about your amendment... Look, not long ago in this Parliament, the PNV signed a compromise amendment saying that the strategies aimed at preventing, emptying and conditioning the development of Basque self-government are rejected. Is the PNV okay with this? Yes or no? Well, do something. Because this is also a strategy of the Government of the State that prevents the development of the Basque Autonomous Community. It prevents development, and you're with it again. Look, I insist, comply with the law... I didn't say that the law was breached. That EH Bildu likes spending? No, no, Do you know what EH Bildu likes? Addressing the needs of Basque citizenship. That's what EH Bildu likes. It's not about spending at any time or not. What should we spend? Of course we have to spend. But I've told you: rigor, of course I have. I am the first to defend budgetary rigour, but own budgetary rigour and budgetary rigour of logic, not budgetary rigour that requires an administration that systematically fails to comply with its budgetary rigour and that simply drowns you in order for its numbers to come out a little more decent in Europe. Because that is the reality: the numbers of Spain are not so bad thanks to the autonomous communities and local agencies. That's the reality. But you're comfortable there. Well, keep it comfortable there, but don't say it's no good again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u30	Yeah. I'm almost done. Do not say again that it is no more, because you are in this situation of your own free will.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u32	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Damborenea, I'm telling you, all the cuts are... The cuts that have been made, the majority have been your responsibility, and that even their mayors, their mayors have been in favour of flexibility and have asked you on more than one occasion. So, we see here, in a sense, that you throw away the mess to the Socialist Party. We see that the Socialist Party throws the crap at you. The usual, isn't it? But in the end, we see that we don't get to work. And the problem with the Socialist Party, in this case, is that you swallowed everything that came from Europe, without questioning whether it was good for citizens or not. They swallowed everything that came from Europe. And you speak, Mrs. Corcuera, that we are not... you say that we are not in the foreground of an economic crisis; that we are..., well, that the indicators show signs of deceleration, but that we are not necessarily in the foreground of an economic crisis. The problem, Mrs Corcuera, well, I don't know why you say that, but it is that the situation of citizenship in Euskadi is much worse than it was in 2007, that we have a debt of the Basque Government that is multiplied by ten over what was about in 2007, an unemployment that is multiplied by about three over the years preceding the crisis, a real poverty that increases by 64.9% and a savings in which 57 % of families, almost six out of ten, cannot save even 200 euros a month. Therefore, there is a real danger that we are in the foreground of an economic crisis, because we see how our external demand, as next year, is going to grow in negative, which was then said; that is, we are going to sell less than we bought. And, therefore, our economic growth will be based primarily on domestic demand, which is also weakening. So, I do not know, Mr Arruabarrena, what you have not said is what you have against the compromise amendment to which Euskal Herria Bildu and us, a compromise amendment which has shown us that we are very close to an agreement in this case. But they didn't want to move anything. You were coming straight, you've come to the negotiations, you've taken a whole round and you've followed the same line. I would like you to tell us what you have against the first point, which is yours; the second point, which is that "The Basque Parliament expresses the need to reform Organic Law 2/2012, so that the deficit, debt and expenditure limits meet the needs of Basque citizens"; and what you have against the fact that, well, with the aim of responding to the challenges we have in Basquedi, within the framework of the Economic Concert, a new fiscal road map is negotiated with the State. I just don't know why we haven't been able to reach an agreement. They've stuck with their stuff, and they haven't gotten out of there. Then, Mr Arruabarrena, then, too, demagogies, in this sense, the just ones, because he said that we are given the same deficit. See, I'm not saying we go in 10,000 and spend 30,000 and have a deficit of almost 3% of GDP. But, well, we have to be aware that debt, that deficit are tools to make politics too; from responsibility, but they are tools that have been used and that will have to continue to be used. And I made this clear in my speech; that, as I said in March 2018, Basque citizens want budgetary responsibility, yes, but that they are not opposed to social investment. And that we amortize debt and that we have amortized debt and that we will continue to amortize debt, but that, if there is a dichotomy between debt or quality public school, Osakidetza, aid to dependency, emergency aid, therefore, the same debt has to wait some year, and absolutely nothing happens. So, I don't know why we haven't been able to reach an agreement when it was so, so, so easy, so easy. Even so, as I have seen, and since we are not far away, well, when the next government in the Spanish state conforms – if it conforms – I believe that it is up to us to work so that we can make this law more flexible and we can really give a margin. But I am very sorry that no agreement has been reached, because it was very close if the Government had had a little more willingness to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u34	Mrs Corcuera, I already know why the four groups who pose the same thing have not had sex: because you wanted to beat them and be more left-wing than the left-wing ones. We're getting things from Europe. Hey, wasn't there a Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero sitting there? Wasn't there a Mr. Almunia sitting there too? What do you mean they're from Europe? Who agreed to that? You guys. But what good opposition does it do if it is not because you are in the Basque Government and in the Government of Spain. Otherwise, your speech would be fine. Mr. Arruabarrena, rule of spending. I told the counselor the other day. In the last four years, the Basque Government has failed in three, and this year it is also going to fail. What is the penalty, Mrs Pinedo? None, none. Now, I am glad that Mr Arruabarrena has come out to discuss the People's Party's fiscal proposal, because it is clear that she is the only one on the table. Because what is that of the Basque Nationalist Party? The one the deputy general of Bizkaia is talking about one day? What's the other day about Gipuzkoa? What happens to Mr. Azpiazu at every moment? And, if you want, let's talk about our tax reform, but do not pay attention to Mr Azpiazu's numbers nor to our tax proposal, not even to those who put forward the budget you are going to vote for, because that budget could be much bigger. I don't know why you... I will tell you: the data from our cost tax proposal were 1.5 billion in two years, 750 million a year, more or less, which is more or less the annual surplus that this government has. This year he's gonna have more. So it wouldn't affect you. Secondly, two years ago we agreed on the reform of the company tax, contrary to the criterion of its initial proposal by the PNV and the Socialist Party. The corporation tax has been lowered, and more has been collected, yes or no? Yeah, right? I mean, lowering taxes sometimes means you collect more, doesn't it? Okay, fine. Does the Basque Government not present us with budgets that say that we trust everything to increase domestic demand? And how do you do that: by raising taxes to citizens, as you propose? Because they're the only proposals you have. Even in this budget we are brought up the water to all citizens. That is the great fiscal measure of this Basque Government: to raise the water, the canon of water to the citizens, apart from the grace that you did by supporting in Madrid the rise of diesel, which has brought a lot of employment, a lot of social spending, especially in unemployment, right? It's a way to increase social spending. We don't agree with that. Why does it bother you that in our proposal, for example, a young Basque man who earns 20,000 euros pays only 18%, as he pays in Madrid, and no more than 20%, as he is paying here? Why do you have to pay 200 euros more than one living in Madrid? Why does that bother you? PNV why does that bother you? Why does it bother you that we suggest that to the low rents, which are the ones that pay the most in all Spain, the Basques, the IRPF is lowered, or to the averages, which are the ones that pay the most in all Spain, the IRPF is reduced? What's the matter, the Basques...? Hey, this Economic Concert thing used to be... we paid less taxes. We were supposed to manage better; as we managed better, we saved more, and we could pay less taxes. But, of course, as the PNV now manages, it manages so well, so well, so well that everything costs us twice as much as expected, including the ETB, which is not 130 million; it is 150 million. Look at the budget, that the rise is fantastic for ETB spending. And second, listen, from the RGI to me, don't talk to me. We have in force the one voted by the People's Party with the Socialist Party, by the way; and with its abstention. I mean for reminding you. Now, yes, we do have that tax proposal. You say, "The Basque Government has room for manoeuvre," but, of course, the spending rule does not leave us. And why does that room for manoeuvre not apply to you in returning to citizens the tax effort they were asked to do in 2013? Or don't we raise taxes in 2013 so we can maintain social spending? And when we've hit all the IRPF collection records, and you have surplus, why can't you go back to the situation we were in 2013, at least for middle and low income? Of course, we will defend him, and we will continue to defend him. It will seem to you that the accounts do not come out. To me the accounts that do not come out are those that you present, which always consist in that the usual ones..., because to raise the water, in short, to the rich I do not know if it will affect you much, but to all others, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u36	Yes, thank you, President. And briefly, because I believe that the approach of the compromise amendment to which Euskal Herria Bildu and Podemos have come has absolutely nothing to do with either the original proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu or the addition amendment that Podemos had proposed. That is an objective fact; it has nothing to do with it. And I repeat again: it proposed the repeal of Law 2/2012, the repeal. As they saw ours, they said: man, these must know something more, and then we go to reform, which is what ours proposed. That's where things went, Mr. Bollain. No, I'm telling you because, like you made me a series of comments... Let's see, where have you been, Mr Bollain, to avoid the catastrophe this one has told us since 2007? What were your co-religionaries doing? Then there was no Podemos, but, well, those who were in that world of politics would do something, do something. Or do you think that the debt increase proposal from 2009 to 2012 with the lehendakari Patxi López was because you loved to be in debt? Was it because you loved being in debt or because there was no chance of reaching a tax reform agreement to have more resources? Why was it? Well, read the hemerotheque, and it's up to you. I already told you the other day, but I'm taking the opportunity, because you were talking... Let's see, sometimes he says yes to debt – little, I've seen him here –; now he believes that, in the face of social priorities, debt should wait a little bit. Now it's a little bit, but it's that it used to be "this is a catastrophe because we've been in debt, I don't know how many billions, and this is barbarity." Let's see, are we in front of the little one or are we in front of the big one? It's just to be clear, isn't it? Let's get this straight. Depending on how the tornadoes come, it is not worth saying a little thing or the opposite; at least, out of political rigour, we stand before the issues, because we are not talking about nonsense or things that do not then have an impact on the life of the citizenry. And then, you have to be a little more rigorous. You said that the socialists in Spain, in Congress, have swallowed cars and wagons. Well, no, and I remind you again, and then you look at it again. We are voting against, Mr Bollain, of Law 2/2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability; that we are voting against all socialists in the Congress of Deputies before that law, okay? If we vote against it, don't you think we were happy and delighted with the life that it was set in motion, right? Well, then, let's not drink with cars or wagons or mill wheels. Mr. Damborenea came up a little bit in the plan of, well, the intervention of the chopper, didn't he? And I take again out of the drawer to Zapatero, and now I'm getting in with Pedro Sánchez, to see if from the totum revolutum Let what they say, tell and tell you, what one will say, and what another will say. The fiscal policy that applies and with which we are with the 2020 budget is the one that you approved, the one that you endorsed with your signature, whether you like it or not now, because times change, and then we're going to mate or not. But that is why it seems to me that your intervention was that of the pataleta, because you have no other explanation, you have no other explanation, Mr Damborenea. You... or you like a drama more than anything else today. Because, of course, we are putting ourselves in the fact that this government is banditting and walking aimlessly. Well, your policy today is to go against the budgets that have been presented for 2020. It was for the 2019 budgets. And it has nothing to do with – and you know it better than me – the issue of fiscal policy that we are applying. Nothing, nothing. They're excuses, it's another political situation, and that's where you've got your future. But don't make us all think that, in short, that we are innocent, by putting it on fair terms in this House. I tell Bildu, in the 19 seconds that I have left, that you don't believe in the road map. You have two initiatives for the issue of the expenditure rule to decide here: what is the expenditure rule we want to impose, and the issue of the deficit. They have two initiatives that have been put forward for a long, long time and have not brought them here to debate. Today we come as if the fiscal road map is going to save the whole issue. No, Mrs Pinedo, you are as aware as I that we are either starting to change politics in Europe, or the states will have to come forward and do with the tools we have what we can good for. If European policy is not able to debate it, negotiate it and adapt it to certain economic, social and financial circumstances that have changed and that do not come in the same way as in the 2008 crisis, then we will have failed, and the state governments of European countries will have to take charge of a European policy that they too will have participated in. I think we'll be able to negotiate something. The situation is different, and therefore the mechanisms have to be different and adapted. And I think we can achieve this if we have broad views, as I trust at least that in politics there will be; broad views to change things and adapt them to the circumstances of the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u38	Yes, thank you. Mrs Pinedo, we can share, in this political context in which the state of autonomy is being attacked on the basis of bubbles and lies, we can share and we can emphasize, every time we have a microphone in front of us, the fact that autonomy is – and especially the Basque one, which is the least – of the public institutions that have the least debt in the state. Therefore, there we can agree. We also agree that the Budget Stability Act needs to be reformed to provide a new spending rule that flexifies, depending on the spending and investment capacity of each autonomous community, that flexifies and adapts it to each reality. But once I say that the recipe for the gathering is back to the law, and we want to follow the law. And if you don't want to do it, you start it. Look, there's a budget that doesn't handle just the EukMicks, and there's a lot of organizations in the budget. And I just saw one of Mr. Egibar's video. Mr. Egibar came out here and Helena Franco... He'd put it in his gym budget... Yes, he read the text, and he didn't mean the regulation he stands up for, and the legal law seemed really to be on the side of it, and he was strict enough. Therefore, if you do not wish to be polite, you shall begin by yourselves, and you shall not be gentle in the law. Mr. Bollain, well, look, we're always in the foreground of everything that's cyclical. I mean, we're on the brink of a crisis, but, well, for now, we're in a chill, and for now, next year we're going to grow by 2%. I'm saying we're on the verge of a crisis, obviously. What we don't know is whether it will be in two years, three years or four years. At the moment, what we have to do is increase investment, make a pro-cyclical policy and, as we begin to fall, make it anti-cyclical. And for that, what's good? To have a low debt, and Euskadi has the lowest debt of the State, 12%. We will continue to amortize debt next year so that, when they are really bad given, we can do pro-cyclical and then counter-cyclical politics. He commented in his speech that why we have not entered the transactional. I have explained it to him, and I have also read him exactly what the text is. It's in your middle, too, in the original initiative of the Rollin and Collecting, that is to say, a career page of the huja de ruta. And, Mr. Damborenea, look, I'll buy you your initiative. Hey, let's lower taxes, raise investment and zero deficit. What happens is that you'll have to comment on where we cut. And I have done a calculation, and you say to me, "No, the reform of the IRPF is not 1.5 billion euros, because it is done in two years. Next year would be 775." And you have given me how wonderful your tax proposal is, your proposals for conciliation. You tell me about the water cannon. Well, all this is wonderful; I'm not against lowering taxes. Now, how do you do that? How do we cut a third of the budget for next year? A third! Of course I do! Between 3,000 and 4 billion euros. It's just that what you're saying is barbarity. And I don't know if you're conscious or let go... I believe you are aware, because you have been in this House for many years, and I am sure that the calculation has done it in your head. The PNV is going to carry out a tax reform in 2020. The one that is currently in force we have agreed with you and, in fact, we have already commented that the evaluation should be done by 2020 and the proposal by 2020. And that's how we'll do it. We will make a fiscal proposal based on a principle of equity I said before, that you have a balance between keeping a tax adjusted, so as not to drown the private sector, but enough to maintain the state of well-being that we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 45; the Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u40	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 8; rivals,66; Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u41	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the east, 37; contrarys, 26; Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u42	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in the theme list. "Motion, Joseph Ramone Becerra Carollo, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos team, was a disorganized energy. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Becerra, you represent the Podemos team together, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, all of you, good morning. The sun and wind have a couple of virtues that we should remember at the beginning of this debate. On the one hand, they have no owner; that means they belong to anyone who wants to enjoy them. And, on the other hand, they are not an economic good, understood academically, to the extent that, since it is not a scarce good, they are supposed to have no economic value. But, however, the sun and wind are capable of generating wealth, well-being and material comfort. And precisely because of that, precisely because of that, they are able to provide benefits to all people and businesses in a country. And, to the extent that they benefit society and the economy of a country, in this case of Euskadi, they allow us to move towards a better future. We have often discussed in this legislature that we need the most fantastic transition to a better future. And in this mythical transition, retractable energy is inevitable. But here in Euskadin, there are two issues of retractable energy: On the one hand, the delay we have for a long time, for want of the activities of governments, and, on the other, our limited capacity in our country, is to renew the energy. Why do we have such a limited capacity? And on the one hand, because the sun is not too much, and on the other, because the wind is not everywhere. That's why the reorganized power is reduced to the production power in a centralized mode. And that's why the reorganized energy is an interesting production. It is very interesting, and as society has a tendency or desire to develop these energy, we must encourage it. To boost decentralised energies, to boost distributed clean energies, it is necessary to put in place the appropriate conditions for this. And that's what the motion we put forward today is for. The legal framework must be adjusted, financial support must be provided and appropriate technical and administrative control must be put in place to put in place the conditions for its development. The legal framework, so far, was extremely restrictive; we had that unjust and improper sun-set, which limited, which was a hindrance to any initiative in this regard. But Royal Decree 244/2019, on electrical self-consumption, somehow clears that panorama. We therefore have the question of financial support, the minimum financial support that private investment needs in this country to make progress in this regard. And, there, the institutions, obviously, have to get involved. We are not talking about excessive financial support, but simply about the minimum, so that it completes the growing profitability that today's clean energies already have in the free market. And, if we put the necessary conditions and leave the protagonist to civil society, which today is already acting in this matter through cooperatives, through self-consumption projects that are already being launched, which even started when they had the wrong sun tax burden, we will go in the right direction, we will go in the right direction and we will go in the direction that other countries have already marked us. I know that Mr. Grajales will certainly not be surprised by this chart I'm going to put on; it's not the first time I put it on. This is the distribution of clean energy distributed in Germany: more than 50 % in the hands of individuals – 40 % in the hands of individuals, 11 % in the hands of starters – 7 % in the hands of municipal and regional governments, and 9 % in the hands of industries and trades. That is to say, 70% of the solar energy produced today in Germany is distributed. But, moreover, when we talk about the role of civil society, we need to be clear about a figure that already comes from the European sphere, which are the citizens' energy communities, citizens' communities that have been approved by a directive that came into force in June this year and that will have to be transposed by the end of 2020 by the Government of Spain. Citizens' energy communities are associations, are cooperatives, are non-profit organizations, which are oriented towards value rather than profitability. They are networks controlled by local members, dedicated to distributed energy generation, and carry out activities of network manager, supplier or aggregator at the local level. That is, they are going to change the picture of not only how we understand the production of energy, but how that energy is distributed to the points of consumption. And the benefits of citizen energy communities, as well as decentralized energy production, are today the best alternative to the unsustainable current energy system. Therefore, as they are the proper alternatives of our modern example, they are permanent and bearable in proportion to the environment, and they are economically just, because they are suitable tools for the distribution of wealth, and because they are the best means of resistance to poverty. For this reason we present our motion to-day, in order to find our common consent in this matter. And we hope we'll have the support of all the teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u44	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, counselors. Our group has made an amendment to add to the initiative put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos on decentralised renewable energy, because, basically, the concept of the motion we share, but we think that two points are needed that we consider important to take into account: "The Basque Parliament – we ask in our amendment to add - urges the Government of Spain to transpose as a matter of urgency Directive 2019/944 of 5 June on common rules for the internal market in electricity, a directive which seeks to articulate a legal framework in line with the process of decentralization of electricity systems". We also urge the Basque Government to include the development of renewable energy from biomass in its renewable energy plan, with the aim of generating economic activity in rural areas, promoting energy efficiency and cleaning up our forests and minimizing the risk of fires. Mr. Becerra spoke of the sun and the wind; there are the waves, there is the water, there is the biomass, there is the geothermia, the aerothermia... I think there are enough factors to be able to develop decentralised renewable energies. He was talking about the legislation that was adopted in Brussels, and that the European Union's clean energy regulatory package was completed in June, with the publication of Directive 2019/944 on common rules for the internal electricity market. Also Regulation 943 of that year; 942, 941, which relate to the internal market in electricity. The establishment of the European Union Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, also to ensure the security of electricity supply. In short, a package that marks us how this is going to be or how it is to be marked from Brussels. And then there is what the Member States will have to legislate according to this directive. It incorporates this directive rules on the generation, transport, distribution, storage of energy and electricity supply adapted to the new energy reality, with a massive use of renewable sources and an increasingly active consumer. The directive incorporates important developments in its articulation, defining activities and subjects hitherto unpublished – the "active customer" or the "citizen energy community", what Mr Becerra told us. And indeed, the objective, as I said to you, of the directive is to articulate a legal framework in line with the process of decentralization of electricity systems. It also incorporates provisions on the integration of electromobility and charging points – we think it is very important that this is also taken up and we have to incorporate it already in each Member State and in the Autonomous Communities. Directive with regulations inviting citizens to become proactive actors and encouraging companies to contribute actively to this process. And, in order for this to be achieved and successful, clear and comprehensive legislation is needed, backed by relevant policy development. Much economic investment is needed in these processes. And, in order for this to not create uncertainty, for this economic investment to be made with all the necessary regulation, I therefore believe that the directive must be transposed as a matter of urgency. We do have until the end of 2020, but, if it is in January, much better, because this generates – as I say – that investors are much more proactive and that can be put in place as soon as possible. So, that's inevitable. And I was talking to them about biomass. I would like to remind you that about five or six years ago he participated in this HAZI House, to inform us of the volume of biomass we have in the Autonomous Community, of the study that HAZI had done for municipalities, of how the potentialities in biomass were communicated to each municipality. And that study, which was, as I say, by city halls, is in the city hall drawers. There has been a town hall – there is not Mrs López de Arroyabe, but she knows perfectly well what I am talking about, because it is the town hall where she lives – just a town hall that has developed that. We have a potential. I know it's a much more humble activity, it doesn't have large zeros, we don't talk about large volumes, but it's, as we might say, energy kilometre 0. We have it at the door of the house; we have the boiler industry, also the generator industry to use biomass... So, we have everything at home. It's very difficult to compete with gas. We have a government that explores, exploits... He does everything. Okay, but we have a lot of biomass. And, besides, there is a need to sort out all that we have on our mountains, so that they are clean mountains, that do not make it easier for diseases to run, as we have now had a problem and we have it... I mean, it's not the most clamorous thing in the world, surely. Surely, the counselor likes to talk about big..., 24 megawatts, solar plates, so much economic volume... Big numbers. No, no, These are small figures, but it is an energy of kilometre 0, and I think we should bet; just like others, we also have them nearby. And that is why we have included this point, because I believe that we are making little use of a resource that we have there, at the door of the house, and that it can provide us with important alternatives in rural areas, both for public and private spaces. And I think we should put more interest in this area. Nothing more. Thank you very much. lehendakariak Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing to groups that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours. rojo solan Once again, we are debating in this plenary on renewable energies – a subject, perhaps, which we have discussed too much and invested not so much – and the need for a stake in them, the recognition of shortcomings in Euskadi, but also the commitment of the Basque Government in this matter. He shared with Mr Becerra what he pointed out in the justification of his initiative when he said that the development of renewable energy is an outstanding subject. Over the past few years, all government documents relating to industry and the economic future, strategies, as well as the latest energy-related law, show that there is a commitment from this government to invest in the energy of the future. But, as I say, perhaps we have spoken for a long time, and perhaps there has been a lack of determination in economic investment in order to develop it. As the energy sector changes, there is a growing consensus that sustainable energy is a catalyst for achieving most of the sustainable development goals. This transformation involves decentralized solutions, which are changing the way people interact with each other and with their energy providers. Last October, the Basque Government announced that it will only hire 100 % green energy in all its facilities, and therefore here there is a positive figure and a finding of the Administration's commitment to this issue, although it is also true that we cannot forget the data on energy dependence in Euskadi, which do not end up improving, the need for renewable energy investment and the even greater commitment on the part of all. Because it is true that the Basque Government has a decisive role; we also have citizenship, and, of course and without forgetting them, the commitment of the business fabric is necessary. Mrs Tapia herself, in her speech to the question put to her by Mr Becerra in full control, acknowledged that perhaps Euskadi is making less efforts than we would need to achieve the objectives set by Europe, but steps are being taken, and in the coming years they will be bigger and more intense. And hence the need for budgetary bets on what we will be discussing next month and which will affect Euskadi's energy policy. The 2018 annual report by the EVE states that the challenges are linked to the concepts of energy or ecological transition, one of the concepts that Mr Becerra put forward in his speech a few minutes ago. In 2018, €9 million is exceeded to promote the rational use of energy and the implementation of renewable energy projects. The commitment to renewable energy must move from the rostrums to the concrete facts. The European demands are known to us and we are still far away. Today there seems to be an important agreement on what this initiative has to do with. As I say, I wish we could move from agreeing in this rostrum to being able to see reality outside. The People's Party was proposing an amendment to add to it, which was to require the Government of Spain to transpose a European directive, a directive which was adopted in June, when the Government of Spain is in office. There is nothing more to see than all that the Spanish Government has done during the last parliamentary term on the subject of energy; therefore, there is no doubt that, in what is good for Spanish energy, of course, there will be a transposition of Europe. And he raised the issue of biomass, which is true that it is an aspect that has been discussed a lot in this Parliament. Indeed, I think we could talk about biomass, but we could have implemented much more of Mr Becerra's original initiative, because there are many things we could talk about – like the renewable energy PTS, the wind energy PTS – and go through each of the possible renewable energies that probably need the impetus of the Basque Government. We therefore welcome the agreement, and I recall that not so many months ago a pact for energy was adopted in this Parliament, which was endorsed in a majority and which, of course, the Government is working on, and that is where the achievement of this country's energy policy is. We are left with what unites us on this issue rather than with what separates us, because that will depend on the economic future of Euskadi. Because it is true that energy has been talked about for a long time, but the fact that the development of renewable energy is part of the economic future of this country is getting closer and closer. And, as I say, and in conclusion, the involvement of the Basque industrial fabric, which is a very determining industrial fabric, is fundamental. We have a large number of SMEs, but there are very large companies, very decisive in this, of course, without whose involvement, in addition to that of the Administration and the citizenry, it will be more difficult to see results. I therefore stand by the positive side of the final vote, and I say that this country's energy policy is in our hands and that I stand by the energy pact proposed by Mr Otero and endorsed by this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u46	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u47	Good noon, everyone. Thank you. Hasi aurretik, Becerra jauna, utz izadazu ohar pessimistic batekin hasten. Uste dut Ortega and Gasset zela esaten zona "that vain effort leads to melancholy". It seems to me that this sentence comes to the fore today. At least if the intention of today's motion is the development of self-consumption and the distributed generation of energy, the effort is futile; if the objective is another, as I fear, then I shut up. And I tell you that the effort is futile not because what is said in the motion is neither necessary nor meaningless – on the contrary; we subscribe your speech to 100% – but it is futile because at this point in the party it is obvious that this government – above all I am talking about the PNV – has already made clear in its action that it is no longer the driving force behind self-consumption, distributed generation and the democratization of energy, but is one of its impediments. And I say at this point in the party because the discussion about the promotion of self-consumption comes from afar in this House and the PNV attitude has been the one that has been: while it has not been forced to anything, as is the case in this motion, so go ahead with the headlights. In this motion, we do not talk about making any plans, we do not talk about any deadlines, we do not talk about any endowments, and we return to the declaration of intentions, to impulses without commitments, to undetermined or quantified reinforcements. There, of course, the PNV will sign what you tell them; it has not been amended. I think it's a good indication. Making a small review of the history, because this issue has it, we have to start in 2013, in which a transactional, starting from a PNL of Euskal Herria Bildu, which was supported by the Socialist Party and the PNV, said that, if the real decree – those royal decrees of the PP that left the renewable ones as the soil after the passage of Atila – came into force, the Basque government was asked to analyze the concrete proposals to favor the self-consumption. Did those concrete proposals arrive? They're not here. Two years later, in 2015, there was another transactional GNP, also with the votes in favour of the Socialist Party, of Euskal Herria Bildu, of the PNV, even of UPyD, in which it was said, it was requested that the Basque Government submit to Parliament, within six months, a report analysing the impact of the rules of self-consumption, and talking about an own regulatory framework to promote the implementation of self-consumption. Did that report come in? Nor did that report arrive. A few months later, at the end of 2015, in full control, in a question by Natalia Rojo –in opposition at that time–, Arantxa Tapia said that the basis on which work was being done was a regulation to promote self-consumption, not a law. Was that regulation introduced? No such rules were introduced. And already a little tired of the non-compliances, there was a compromise motion by Euskal Herria Bildu and the Socialist Party of Euskadi asking, in the last plenary of the last parliamentary term, that full compliance be given to what had already been approved and that the drafting of a law regulating self-consumption be initiated. Obviously, when a greater obligation came, such as the attempt to draft a law, then the PNV voted against, voted against, and, of course, that's when both we and the Socialist Party said that we had been losing out throughout the legislature, so as not to do anything effective. And, in order to finish all that, the electrical generation paper was blocked and left to die without even making an opinion. But the thing has continued, and there have been proposals in this legislature. And on 8 March of last year it was approved, and unanimously, with the vote of all, of all present, that before the end of 2018 a draft of rules would be presented to regulate in the scope of the Basque Autonomous Community the renewable generation and the shared distribution. Has this draft been presented to which the Government committed itself, which it was going to submit before the end of 2018? Well, no. Have these been all the failures that have been made in the field of energy? Obviously not. There are others, even much more serious – and we will talk about it again – such as the failure to comply with the Energy Sustainability Act, after having agreed to it with the creation of the fund, or the beginnings of the work of a sectoral territorial plan for renewable energies, which was also agreed by law and is not being worked on. So, in this context, Mr Becerra, you will understand that our distrust is growing greenwashing. I think it was pretty clear that you, not long ago, on October 25th, this year, in an interpelation you made to Tapia, where you put three points on the table that you brought today. self-consumption, thermal solar impacts in the homes, and the citizens of the Myrgeic community. Councilwoman Tapia, that day, in a skillful squid ink launch exercise, mixed it all up to explain that the government does things, and talked about centralized purchase of renewable energy, talked about the five megawatts of photovoltaics that the EVE has, of Bidelek, of biomethane, of the large wind in the mountains, of solar generation centralized in Arasur in the EKIAN project, of biomass, of hydrothermia... And, in that whirlwind, he spoke of promoting self-consumption and supporting citizen energy communities. Literally, he said, "we are driving new projects and new opportunities in energy communities." And he also told us that "they'll have the opportunity to see it in the budgets." But, in the budgets, as much as one looks at them from top to bottom, from left to right, there is no determined support for the energy communities, there is no reference, there is not a single reference in all budgets, and there is nothing that is qualitatively recognizable in terms of self-consumption. Moreover, the budgets, like Mrs Tapia, show us that it is no longer that you are not going to push what you are proposing, but that, apparently, the PNV has nothing clear even what self-consumption is, much less the distributed generation. Because the main stake, in this section in the 2020 budgets, is made with the participation of CADEM – the Center for Saving and Energy Development and Mining – in the large photovoltaic plant EKIAN in Arasur. It is quite contrary to the distributed generation we are talking about, to self-consumption, to energy communities, etc. What's more, I think that day was even clear that they don't have much clarity or what drawer to look for. Because Mrs Tapia was talking about that, after the PSOE decree in Madrid that regulates self-consumption, there is already the regulatory framework put in place for energy communities – that's what she said – when in reality this framework comes from the European directives from part of the winter package of the Renewables Support Directive of December 2018, and the other, to which Mrs López de Ocariz referred in June. So, if we are looking in a drawer that has zero regulations, and, moreover, they want to convince us that, on the basis of supposed regulations, that they do not exist because they have not been transposed, there are going to be some real items, that after that they do not exist in the budget, because I believe that things are round and clear. And today there will be majority support for this, but, of course, there is no intention of doing so. I believe that, at this point, the PNV's bet is very evident – as has been said – for fossil gas, and not for renewables, much less for distributed generation and self-consumption. So we understand that today, with this motion, no progress is made, no progress is made, but rather that the Government will try to wash its face without touching or changing its fossilist vocation; it is, well determined and well budgeted, as can be seen in the budgets. That's why I was saying that if the effort was sincere, it's going to be futile and lead to melancholy. Although, that is, if it really is something else, if this motion is framed within the bridal dance of the budget birds, then that already escapes me; then we are talking about something else. And there everyone will know where he is. And, if it is not clear to you, Mr Becerra, try to answer why you believe that in this matter, for the first time in the entire legislature, the parties supporting the Government will support you in your motion without even having made an amendment, with what punctuous they have been during all these years. We understand that we can't make much progress on this. We're going to abstain. We know this is going to come out. But we wanted to leave here our complaint and the terms of our complaint for what is coming, not because we obviously do not agree with the deployment of renewables, the distributed generation and the self-consumption, as you well know, but because we understand that we cannot move forward if we do not press a little further and leave so much escape to the Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u48	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u49	Yes, thank you, Madam. You can answer that, Mr. Becerra, but I'll answer that. A priori Now, if you come out here today and don't use the greenwashing thing Finally, you said, you did remember that about a year and a half ago we discussed self-consumption in this very House. On that occasion, we have already expressed before this House our active commitment to self-consumption and distributed generation. And we keep doing it. Another thing is that we don't share your vision 100%. Because you have the custom of coming here and everything that is not 100% what you think, what you think, is already wrong. Well, look, it's just that, equally, in fact, we have a different view of what the distributed generation is. Now, now, come and mix it with Arasur's... No, that's as good as it gets, huh? To know that that's not a distributed generation, that's what it gives us. It also gives us to know that raising a percentage point in the targets we have to cover by 2030 means generating 570 kilovolts of energy. You'll tell me if we can do that with just one formula or the other. I think that we should also take this seriously and know our abilities, our limitations and everything to put on the roaster, in this case. But, as I say, we said a year and a half ago, and now we keep it: it is useless to put doors to the countryside. And that self-consumption was going to grow, it was going to become an important reality in the configuration of the electrical system in the near future was an obvious, and so time is showing us. We then called on the State, with you, to provide a regulatory framework favourable to self-consumption, in line with the European directives, which by then would open the door to responsible self-consumption, covering basal consumption, and with a regulation that would give legislative stability and long-term certainty. By then, as has already been said, self-consumers were already recognised at European Union level, and their countries had to implement a legally binding framework that gave them the right to generate, consume, store and sell their own energy. Since then, the situation has changed; in our opinion, better. The European Union took a step further with the adoption of Directive 944 of 2019, and the state – and let us not forget that this issue is subject to basic legislation – the state has also taken important steps in the direction in which this House pointed out in the transaction that we support you, the Basque Socialist Group and us. First, the Royal Decree Law 15/2018, in which the paradigm is changed and the bases of self-consumption. Finally – what we have been demanding – self-consumption is positioned as an important element in the energy transition, being one of the drivers And finally, in April, the Government of Spain approves Royal Decree 244/2019, which regulates the administrative, technical and economic conditions of self-consumption; a decree with important developments in compensation of surpluses, in collective self-consumption and in administrative procedures. That is why I believe that we can say that the situation is much better than it was a year and a half ago and that this situation gives us the opportunity to work more and better for the energy transition in, from and to Euskadi. If things were already being done, such as providing the country with smart networks – without which it is unthinkable to be able to move in the right direction – through the Bidelek programmes, the first action after the adoption of the royal decree has been to facilitate and communicate the new process of processing the administrative authorization, with the implementation of a reduced time frame and the telematics system of processing for this type of facility, which has represented a significant advance in the applications for aid that have been met, from 200 kilowatts in 2017, 1,200 in 2018, to 8,000 in 2019. This new framework has opened up new possibilities and is facilitating the deployment of distributed renewables facilities through individual and shared self-consumption. Work is under way to boost new projects to take advantage of this favourable new regulation, together with the drive to create the active consumer in Euskadi, following the guidelines laid down by the European Commission. The Basque Government, through the area of distributed generation and demand management of the EVE, will shortly present new initiatives for the development of energy communities in which energy can be shared and the management of energy supply and demand can be optimised at local level, offering participation in this scheme to domestic consumers to acquire the status of active consumers. It is also planned to create virtual electrical networks, with distributed generation management, demand and electrical storage; to stimulate the creation of the demand aggregator figure as an active agent in the electrical system; and, why not say so, new models and new business niches for our companies. Self-consumption facilities that hybridise renewable electricity generation and electrical storage solutions – with a particular impact, in this case, of photovoltaics – are one of the main areas of work ahead. That is why we will support Mr Becerra's motion today. We fully share it in its letter and in its spirit. And, as it is to preach and give wheat, I will tell you that, with regard to the second point of the motion, in which the Government is requested to strengthen the economic aid mechanisms, the Basque Energy Agency, apart from the aid programmes already in force, has also included in the draft budget for 2020 an amount of EUR 17 million for investments in this type of facility, within the scope of the Energy Sustainability Act, apart, logically, from the own projects or those that are or are to be developed together with third parties. The implementation of this law will give us the opportunity to integrate in our system the distributed generation, in which we will go along with other activities, in pursuit of a real energy transition towards a more sustainable energy model that will allow us to make the development of renewable energies compatible with the preservation of the natural, landscape and cultural heritage of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u50	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u51	Okay. Mrs Red said that our country's energy dependence is high, and we agree with that. And, therefore, we do not have to wait for the Basque Government to drive large wind, solar or other power installations, as it has been doing so far. The latest follow-up report on the 2030 Energy Strategy clearly states: "The indicators are far from the targets set for 2030". We cannot wait for the Government to boost large centralized facilities, which, on the other hand, as I have said, have limited potential in the country. And, therefore, when we see progress from Europe – and in this I agree with Mrs López de Ocariz – it is her job to transpose that progress as soon as possible. And, therefore, the first point that you propose as an addendum amendment, our group will certainly support it; we cannot wait until December 2020 on this issue. I admit that in my initial speech I have mentioned only the sun and the wind, and that there are other renewable energies that have potential, but it is true that these are the ones that have reached a level of maturity at the economic and financial level and in terms of exploitation. You propose an additional one, which is biomass, which, however, from our point of view requires additional reflection. It is true that it is a renewable energy; it is true that in Euskadi it can be a zero kilometre energy; but it is also true that it is not always a sustainable energy, depending on how exploitation is and so on. And then, already, linking it to issues such as cleaning up the mountains or the risk of fires, because, from our point of view, it is already more questionable. That does not mean that we are against it, but that I encourage you to have this debate in a differentiated way, because I think it requires more nuance than the sun and the wind. And, therefore, we will abstain on that issue. But, as I say, we're not against it. I regret that Mr Otero, with the number of times we have developed joint initiatives, sees in this initiative an intention to make greenwashing greenwashing greenwashing Because I don't know whether you have melancholy or not about how the Basque Energy Pact that the government bought you last spring is going. It's got a lot of melancholy on it. And we were very critical of that pact: we said that it was very difficult to force the government to change its strategy through a committee of experts. But precisely because that committee of expert persons is the one who has to set the objectives, so in this motion no objectives are mentioned, because it does not trample on the work of the expert persons and because it does not highlight how bad this Basque Energy Pact is working. The reason – I am going to say this expressly here – is that last spring the regulatory framework behind which the Government had been shielding itself to date changed, and that they did not enhance self-consumption because they said that the regulation did not allow it; they were shielding themselves again and again on that issue. Well, in spring, the regulatory framework changes. There are no more obstacles to developing self-consumption. And, above all, in June, the directive of the citizens' energy communities is developed. Therefore, our group saw the honest opportunity – possibly questionable, and I am not going to take it away from it – to present an inquiry and, in the light of Mrs Tapia's reply, a motion; a motion presented without any hidden objective – and much less budget – than that of overcoming the excuses that our group understands that so far the Government has presented, to develop the distributed energy. Whether we are wrong or not, well, time will tell; just as time will tell whether or not you were wrong when signing the Basque Energy Pact. Of course, our group, while seeing the difficulties, will continue to push the Basque Energy Pact, will continue to push motions like these, and, when we see it right, we will put motions with concrete timetables and objectives that will more closely link the Government. We now believed that it was an opportunity to make a joint statement that somehow links the groups of the Government in the development, in this case, of distributed energy, which, from our point of view, has a lot of future. And, above all, it has it in the hands of civil society. And that's where we'll be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u52	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u53	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. Becerra, I'm drawn to that reticence for setting in motion or activating the generation of energy through biomass. CO 2 that releases this energy is minimal, both in its combustion and in its extraction, if we compare it with the gas or with the diesel – I say the gas because it is the alternative that the government has put us here–. We have villages full of gas pipelines. I refuse to use the gas, I refuse to use the gas. I want to use biomass, and I want to have the same opportunities as gas. I don't ask any more: help me the same way, bring me the installation too; all that. I want to say that I believe that those who want to start an energy that is through biomass, for we can also do it, and that it can be enhanced, because, as I said, all its waste and waste can be used energetically. The pellet is ecological; it does not contribute to global warming. Their ashes can be reused as fertilizer. With the cleaning of the mountains to obtain the product, we minimize the risk of fires. What's going on? Why Castilla and León, why Extremadura, why Andalusia have impressive plans for the implementation of biomass? Impressive. And why has such a volume of positioning taken this alternative energy in rural areas? I don't think it's our territory outside of this. What conditions or circumstances are given here that do not occur elsewhere? I'd like to know. And then, well, your price, right? One liter of diesel equals two kilos of pellet in terms of the energy it generates. However, two kilos of pellets cost us 0.29 euros, and one liter of diesel costs us one euro. Well, look: 70% lower the price of the pellet. It generates jobs in rural areas, and it does reduce the risks of forest fires and disease pests. Of course, because that cleaner has to be ordered and controlled, effectively, effectively, and as it is being done. Here we have an example, an example that has been developing for some time. We have industry in the Autonomous Community of boilers and last generation heat generators. And what's wrong with us? Well, frankly, it happens to us that, as I told you before, our bet is gas. But I think we have to overcome that inertia and we have to use a resource that we have, as I said, of zero kilometer and that we will have to push it. They don't say no, but they don't push it. A study was carried out from HAZI, an important study that also values biomass production over ten-year cycles and the volume we have. Hey, let's exercise it; it's cheap and it's, like I tell you, zero kilometre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo mustn't speak. EHGG rep. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u55	Yes, thank you again. Well, I've expressed myself wrong, too. I'm not accusing you of doing greenwashing at all. And I am telling you this because Mr Grajales' speech has become more or less clear. The Government is saying that this is already being done. That is to say, the first point is declaratory, and, in the second point, he said that the EVE has already increased aid, which is now going to be EUR 17 million for all this sort of thing. That, once again, does again what Mrs Tapia did, which is to mix everything, because the 17 million euros – now I speak a little bit more about it – have nothing to do with the distributed generation. And, yes, Mr. Grajales, the government has a problem with understanding what the distributed generation is. And you say no. But I refer to the draft budget for 2020, in the part of the Basque Energy Agency, page 24, which is the only thing that says the draft budget on distributed generation and demand management. And he talks about CADEM's participation in the generation project. And he's referring to the EKIAN generation project, which is not a distributed generation. So, don't tell me that you don't have an understanding problem with what the distributed generation is, when you reflect it and it's the only reference there is to this in the 2020 budget project. They're mixing. And you, once again, have done the same, because you said that there have already been increases in the allocations for these issues, that there are 17 million euros. But you have forgotten to distinguish that in those 17 million euros there are aids to change the gas boilers, there are aids to buy cars of diesel and gasoline. So, what are you talking about? Again from all that stock bust that they're supposed to give us energy efficiency and savings? Or are you talking about distributed generation, self-consumption and energy communities? Because they are different things; because energy communities have no reflection on budgets. You've said words here. And what they are going to do in principle is reflected in the budget proposal; another thing is whether they do it or not, but, of course, it is not reflected in the energy communities. Of course, you have to defend the work of the Government, but I think it is important to understand the scale of what we are talking about. Because here, for example, when she talked about renewables, she talked about the five megawatts that the Basque Energy Agency has in 350 photovoltaic installations distributed throughout the Community. But he forgets to say that the Basque Energy Agency – therefore, the government – has 25% of Bay of Bizkaia Electricity, which means the possession of 200 megawatts of electricity generation in fossil fuels. It's 40 times more. That is the scale we are talking about, and that is what the Government has been dedicated to all these years. That is, when you come here with a lot of small projects, pilot projects, small investments and some help around here and there – which I don't say there are – if you put it in comparison with where the electricity is actually being generated and what is really being driven, when you make the comparison in scale and not in number of projects, it's when you realize what this government's real bet is. The Government said it was concerned about the deployment of renewables, and was doing well. But then, when you look at the data – and the data we have been asking for during this legislature – it turns out that 97% of the electricity produced through the Basque Energy Agency is through fossil fuels, and 3% is through renewables. 97 % fossil versus 3 % renewable. There's no bet decided anywhere. There are 40 times more money invested in fossil electrical production than in photovoltaic production, for example. Then, the bet and the true soul and the true heart and the true intention is evident where it goes. And there is nothing more to follow from the statements of the director of the Basque Energy Agency, Mr Ansola, when what comes to us is that we are now at 33% of gas consumption in final energy consumption, and the aspiration is that we have to rise to 42%. Of course, if the Basque Energy Agency is concerned that we are going to increase gas consumption to 42%, then, of course, when it proposes aid packages, it will favour gas boilers, etc., and it will also dedicate – because for everything there is a bit to distribute, to say that it has been done – for everyone it will arrive a bit, and there will be a little project here, a pilot there, which is what comes to be gathered in the budget project: distributed generation, study for the implementation of six self-consumption facilities. Obviously, but what scale are we talking about? I believe that – and I am going to finish – instead of thinking and selling what good is being done, this government should rather think why, since Mr Urkullu is lehendakari, the renewable generation in this country was at 7% seven years ago, and it is still at 7%; and why greenhouse gas emissions were at a little less than 9 tonnes per head/year, and now we are at 9.2. That is the question they have to answer: why after all these years, in fact, the fat numbers are not moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mr. Grakiles mustn't speak a word. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote first, and then we're gonna add to the Basque Potion Group. We'll vote for the first paragraph. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 36; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u57	So the first paragraph is not accepted. Next, we vote for the second paragraph. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 37; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u58	So the second point is not accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of Mr. Becerra Carollo's motion. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 56; rivals, 0; Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u59	So the original text has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "A proposition as made by the Parlamentarian Society of the Basque Council, as well as the members of the Basque School Council. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. De Bengoche, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u60	Good... good afternoon, everyone. Let's see, look, I bring this point to your attention, and I'll let you know in advance – because I've spoken to the spokesmen of the parties – that I know it's not going to get approved, it's not going to get approved. Which, actually, I didn't understand, but, well, it's the game of politics. And let's talk about the Basque School Council of Euskadi. B What I want to say is that it seems to me to be a fundamental body, because every year it prepares a report which, moreover, is, above all, a quasi-statistical report. Above all, it is a quantification report, and it gives us an X-ray of what happens in schools and throughout the school system in Euskadi, which, of course, our group greatly appreciates. Moreover, the shortcomings we have, the shortcomings we have, are deduced from him – and the report assumes quite a lot – from him. Therefore, our esteem goes in advance to the Euskadi School Council and to the reports it makes. I say to you, personally, that at the time of February or so I will read it again, and at the time of September, already preparing all the topics for the important legislative periods, I will read it again. But we all know that it has capacity for improvement, like all institutions, and the Euskadi School Council also has great capacity for improvement. And, therefore, that is what we want to contribute to: to their improvement. We have no doubt – and it is a merit – that it is an eminently technical report that must be drafted by technicians. That, of course, we assume completely. However, we are going to its composition, and, as far as the plenary is concerned, which is a less technical body and more for approval or not for approval of what the technicians propose, it is in the composition of the plenary where we believe that improvements could be made. And what are those improvements? Let's see, let me read you the composition, quickly. We have four people of recognized prestige; six members of ELA representing the faculty; three from Bige and three from FEGUIAPA – who I understand many of you will say "what is that?". Well, it is the representation of parents' associations of students, both in the public and in the concerted–; three from Ikasle Abertzaleak and one from the student union; four from the Education Administration; three from Confebask; three from the Workers' Commissions by the unions; two from Kristau Eskola, as holders of the private concerted centres; three from ELA and one from LAB by the administrative staff; one from UPV; one representing the cooperatives; one representing CJE; one representing the directors; one technician; and then – here comes my surprise – a representative from Urretxu, one from Urnieta, one from Santurtzi, one from Astigarraga – these are all politicians, eh?–, one from Ebro Baths and one from Amorebieta-Etxano. Well, let's see. What I cannot understand is that Eudel appoints these representatives of the municipalities, and there are not even representatives of this Parliament in the plenary. Because, let's see, municipalities can have certain competences in education; they are, above all, auxiliary competences, subsidiary competences, maintenance skills – now reduced, but have them. However, for example, I have never seen these representatives say no to a programme which, in the opinion of our group, is fundamentally unfair, which is the Udal Laguntza programme, by which in works – which cannot be said to be maintenance for many of them, but are infrastructure renovation works – the competent one, which is the Government, makes each municipality have to pay 40% of the work. I, as a town hall, never understood it, when I was a member of a town hall. That's why I don't call this program Udal Laguntza; it's not about helping municipalities. I call it "Gobernu Laguntza"; it's about the municipalities helping the government. And to these municipal representatives who appear on the Euskadi School Council, and who are politicians, I have never heard them raise the voice against this issue, which seems to me to be an aggravation, nor have I heard them raise the voice against other things that make them improper powers of the municipalities. And yet, everyone has to do it. More Gobernu Laguntza. Then, of course, it turns out that this Euskadi School Council has the presence of politicians, who are supposed to represent the municipalities, but they are from these municipalities that I have told you. And you will tell me, in educational matters, what will the City of Bilbao have to do with baths of Ebro, or the City of Donosti with Urretxu. Little, little. But, well, he names them Eudel, and there they are. And it turns out that an organ, like the Basque Parliament, that we are going to be the ones that we approve or not... First, that we are the direct representation of citizens, the first step of representation, the first step, and that we will have in our hands to adopt documents as important, especially two fundamental, for the educational future of our society, as are the Education Act – and other laws, because we approve the FP Act and other laws – and then, above all, the Budget Act. Because, of course, they want you not to, these two laws emanate from the Basque Parliament. And they emanate why? Because we are the first step in citizen representation, the most direct. And it turns out that the Basque School Council is Urretxu, but there is no Basque Parliament; there is Astigarraga, but there is no Basque Parliament. They'll tell me, "Yes, but those people are representing the towns of Euskadi." Okay, perfect. But the education skills of the Euskadi municipalities, as I say again, are very limited, and what they do is assume improper skills, and I have never heard these complain. So, I say: if Urretxu, Urnieta, Santurtzi, Astigarraga, Baths of Ebro and Amorebieta-Etxano are at the Basque School Council, why is the Basque Parliament not represented there? When we are going to have to make fundamental decisions for the educational future of our society: as I say, successive budget laws, the General Education Act, but also other ancillary laws, and I am thinking about what we passed in this legislature, which was the FP Act. And you will say to me – and I could even share it – "yet, but the Euskadi School Council is a fundamentally technical body." And I share it. That's what it is and that's what I want it to be. That's why I appreciate your reports so much. But then why does Eudel put political people – who are councillors – or such people in the Basque School Council and the Basque Parliament is not there? And I am not talking about either the Permanent or the subcommittees that are dealing with specific things that are technical; I am talking about that, in plenary, at least, we are represented. Because, I am very sorry, but I believe that the capacity of this institution to decide on education is much greater than that of the municipalities. So, if the municipalities are there, I ask that Parliament be there too. And, above all, I ask because, as I say to you, our group highly values the Euskadi School Council; it highly values it. We would be delighted to be involved not in its functioning, but at least as witnesses to the great work they do. And we're not, and we're not. And then I'm gonna tell you this, too. Here I am already going to start stepping on puddles, but, to me, for example, it seems to me that the union representation is overrepresented, overrepresented, which can be beneficial; come on, I personally encourage my family to stand down. Why? Because I believe that workers have to defend their rights; it is true. But, of course, no one will be called here in amazement if I say that precisely in education we have had great problems with trade union representatives, not so much because they defended workers' rights, which we were all going to say there, but because they have often defended ideological models, ideological models, which I do not think is exactly what they have to do. I, in the last commission, told LAB – I think it was LAB – "But, let's see, you have a defense of an ideological model; they are not defending the workers." And he answered me one very rare thing: that in their statutes they had also inserted the political side and that, therefore, they were legitimized... Let's see, from the common sense, a union is a union. And, if you have heard what I have read to you, there is a clear overrepresentation. And then the counselor will have a lot of problems, so why? Because, of course, in this body and in others there will be ideologies which, by entering through the back door, which is the union door, will propose models that are not models that are in this consensus Parliament, which is where they must be agreed, in this Parliament. And, on the other hand, the political groups, which are the ones who are going to have to agree on the Education Act, the budgets, everything that is vital for the development of education in our country, are not represented. I don't know, so I guess... Urretxu I think is Bildu, right? Urretxu is Bildu, isn't it? Well, I imagine that the people of Bildu will be very confident that Mr. de Urretxu will defend the general interests of education in Euskadi. Well, it's just that I'm afraid it's not. And you will defend a lot that Mr de Amorebieta-Etxano, who I believe is a representative of the PNV, defends deeply not only the municipal interests, but the interests of education in Euskadi. Well, not us. We believe that members of this Parliament, not in technical functions – because not, because what makes the Euskadi School Council valuable is its eminently technical character – but we should be present in plenary. Because, as I say to you, from here comes the educational consensus; from here the Education Law will be born; from here will be born, from our consensus, the laws that will affect education, and, year by year, the budgets that will allow the development of those laws that we have agreed. I know we are not going to be approved of this approach, but, as Mr Damborenea has told me, "if no one votes for you, if we only vote, you are right." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u62	Well, I'm going to see if I can express it in not too long, because I understand that neither you nor Mr. Damborenea are right in what you propose in relation to the composition of the School Council. You will recall that, in February 2017, the People's Parliamentary Group, precisely, submitted a proposal for a law amending Law 13/1988 of 28 October of School Councils, which called for the inclusion of a representative of educational cooperatives through this law. This was the case, in addition to other modifications that were also made, because it was understood that cooperatives do have and play a role in the educational system and develop teaching activities at different levels. A law was voted and passed that updated the configuration of both the Euskadi School Council and the Territorial School Councils. And we're talking about 2017, not that long ago. In addition, a representation of the associations of directors and directors of public non-university educational institutions of the Autonomous Community was included. It was also used to update the bodies responsible for the appointment of representatives of the UPV Education Authority by the Governing Council and the appointment, where appropriate, of the four eminent persons. And, in conclusion, the gender perspective was also contemplated and introduced. But at no time was it agreed by any parliamentary group, nor by the People's Party, which in its speech asked a rhetorical question asking if anything was missing, with the answer that only education cooperatives were missing. Nor did the People's Party propose the inclusion in the Euskadi School Council of representatives of the political groups in this House. The Euskadi School Council defines itself as the maximum body for the participation of the social sectors involved in the general programming of non-university education, and for consulting and advising on the regulations to be proposed by the Basque Government in the field of education. It draws up opinions on the rules governing education and reports on the situation. In addition, it must be consulted on the major issues of education such as decrees, plans, as was done with the agreement for education, and it has the capacity to submit proposals to the department. Act No. 13/1988 of 28 October 1988 on School Councils is a law establishing consultation, participation and advisory bodies in the programming of non-university education. And so the Euskadi School Council was set up as the higher consultative body for participation – not for politicization – and at that time the Socialist Party was responsible for educational management. When we discussed the amendment of this law in 2017, I said that we understood that the School Council had fulfilled its mission by informing the Administration of everything that was mandatory, and by setting criteria, as a plural and independent body, in aspects related to education in the Basque Country. A plural and independent body providing advice to the education administration and involving the sectors. And that statement is still being maintained. The main role of this body is the participation of all sectors of the educational community; the educational community, I repeat, can contribute and improve our educational system. And this body has a representation that was improved with an agent of the educational community, who was not, who were the cooperatives. Substantial improvement in the law's own updating. Participation is a value in itself, a democratic value, but it is also an indicator of the quality of all European education systems. Participation is necessary, and a council that is governed by the autonomy of criteria, that is as autonomous, plural and independent as possible. And that would not be so, nor would it have autonomy of judgement if the political parties were part of it. The School Council is autonomous by definition and has assigned functions, a margin in which to move, just as we have our own. And I'm going to use his own words to explain why we understand that political parties don't paint anything on the school board. The political parties, as you said in your speech, have our area of competence, which is this Parliament, as does the Basque School Council. And it is this Parliament that approves the education laws, the basic agreement, the regulations, the budgets that support the public education system in this country. Let us therefore leave everyone working in their respective fields: the School Council, in its area of competence, and let us maintain ours in our area. The Education Administration, together with the community agents, is the one that marks the education agenda; we do not put in political representation, which would only bias that autonomy of the Council and independence, which is one of the values with which the Euskadi School Council preaches. And, for that reason and not for another reason, we are going to vote against it. Because, as you yourself said, parliamentarians already have an assigned role, that of direct election in this Parliament to sanction, approve or reject any proposals made by the department, after hearing, in any case, the School Council, which issues in its reports, and which will be taken into account by the Education Administration. But our role is to approve, reject or amend the legislative proposals and also the general budgets of the Autonomous Community, and not to interfere with the efforts, discussions or reports made by the Euskadi School Council. I did not understand when you presented it and, after hearing from you, I ratify that it makes no sense what you propose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u64	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Well, I was actually going to make a "starrone," but I didn't dare, because I knew I wasn't going to convince him. But I explain to you, Mrs Bengoechea: on 20 February 2017, your group submitted a proposal for a law amending Law 13/1988 of 28 October of the School Councils of Euskadi, an amendment that, as we already counted on taking account of it, seemed insufficient, but with which we agreed. The amendment of Law 13/1988 of 28 October, as I say, of the School Councils of Euskadi, began on his proposal, and proposed an amendment of two specific articles of the law: article 11 and article 22, two articles relating to the increase in representation, and I quote literally: "a representative of educational cooperatives". And he could have included parliamentary groups at that time, and he didn't. The presentation focused on who should take part in the Euskadi School Council, and each of the groups had the opportunity to make our proposals and contributions. That said, and as we have said so many times before, Elkarrekin We may not conceive of educational policies that do not have the active and real participation of the educational community. And, at present, we have the School Council as the higher body for the participation of the social sectors involved in the general programming of non-university education, consultation and advice on the draft laws, general provisions and regulations proposed by the Basque Government. However, we believe that this framework of participation is obsolete and needs profound change, not just in the above-mentioned articles. However, what we do not explain is, first, why it did not incorporate this demand to include parliamentary groups in the Basque School Council in that bill that you put forward, and, secondly, why it does so now and through a non-law proposal. Thus, we think that this initiative does not meet in time or in form. And we are going to vote against, beyond the considerations that we can make in relation to its content, and that I know I will not convince you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs. Ubera, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u66	Good afternoon again. Mrs. Bengoechea, I don't understand many things either. That's life, isn't it? Question of visions, and a continuous learning, of knowing how to lose and know how to win. But, well, cheerful and combative, until the final victory, Mrs. Bengoechea. It's not the first time we've been talking about the Basque School Council in this house. And then at the Basque Country meeting, we have shown that he cares for us, because we care about the Basque School Council. And therefore we have taken the initiative, and in this legislation have made a number of proposals about the Basque School Council. For example, we've asked for the President's presentation to know their projects. Then we followed him, and we invited him several times. We've also invited some members of the Basque Council to recognize their opinions. We've also made proposals to change the function and constitution of the Basque Council. And yet for the second time... Well, we've introduced two legal proposals, and the second one's in the tramite. So, we made a few proposals. And it's true that we, from the town halls, have also representatives in it. So we're fully engaged with the Basque School Council, because we think it's a very important instrument, and besides that it's an important role that should be played at the moment we're living in, such as looking at the possible law to help us turn back our segregation stations in the villages... And, well, for several other reasons. We've often said that it requires deep deviations, though, as far as the functions are concerned, so we've also made proposals; it requires deep alterations in regard to function and constitution. We believe that from an organ subordinate to education, it must indeed become an efficient organ of education, an independent organ, not that will legitimize the government's policies, but that which will actually encourage and develop other practices, unions, and more budgets, in order to penetrate into its dynamics. And so we proposed to refer more funding and resources to the School Council, to penetrate further into its dynamics, to make real reflection, because we are required to do so by acts, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, that it might, in some way, help us to mark the north of education. But there is no will in this house, and we have lost several opportunities in that direction. We've been very critical as to the divisional intervention, because, for example, the President of the Basque Council recommends the Board of Education. And we have proposed, like the Ardians, to name this house, the President of appointing the Parliaments. And even the chances of participation in it are very limited. And in the end, an organ has become the decision of a few. But even there in this house you have not seen the necessity of changing. And we haven't seen any will. And we've lost several choices. And now, Populous Party has brought us a new proposal, which is to be shared by members of the legislature at the Basque Council. Now comes the proposal, although the Popular Party, at its very moment, made a legal proposal to change its members. Then he had a chance, but he didn't suggest it. And that's allowed, huh? It's allowed to bring proposals in different times. But, well, it's weird that this proposal is coming now. We don't agree with this proposal. We don't share, and we vote against it for two main reasons. We political parties have a chance to talk about education, to debate, to make decisions in this house, and it's our responsibility. And we think that we ought to show our true commitment to education in this house, by introducing initiatives, following the government, by putting on discussions, by coming to the agreements, by making the way to the finances of one of the European Union, and so forth. We're thinking of committing here. Then it's another major reason that the educational community needs its own frames. And it's important there are no parties, their dynamics, their discussions, to be able to reflect on, without the presence of these parties. And it seems to us that this frame is essential, that it is important, and that it may also be useful to us. And we mustn't forget, nor do you say that the delegation in it is appointed by Eudel at the Basque School Council. There are six representatives of the local administration, but they are not the direct representatives of the parties, but the council representatives. Then they play another role: the townships. And that paper is very important. In the townships there are many things to be done with regard to education, and to the social panic. Because we mustn't forget that education is a means of social excitement, of life, etc., etc., etc. So we don't see the presence of parties in the Basque School Council necessary. We think that our work is here rather than in view, and that we need a firm commitment to education, financing to advance to their average, to destroy the privatization of this dilatal system, to promote the real inclusive system, to encourage an euccany of eucalist education, and so on, and so on, I can put several reasons on the table, Mrs. Bengoche. There's our commitment here. And I think that we should make a strong bet there for education all of us, because we all say education is important, but then it's always abandoned in the Agendas. And don't forget: It's a means of education for social excitement, for mutual intercourse. I used to listen to Mr. Urkullu in an act of "an cult of society," and that's what this society needs: cults of citizens prepared for an advanced country. And that's our bet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u68	Thank you, Chief. Good noon, everyone. To tell you the truth, Mrs. Bengochea, I'm surprised at this initiative. In 2018, from Mr. Barrio's hand last year, you brought in a legal proposition concerning the constitution of the School Council. Mr. Barrio thought it interesting to include the representative of the schools of character in the School Council, and we all agreed with the proposition of Mr. Barrio, and introduced other representatives, the representation of associations which unite the directors of public schools. But there was no mention of any consideration of the delegation or delegation of the legislature in this affair. Joan den urriaren 14 year old, batzordean Eskola Kontseiluarekin zerikusia zuen beasts kontu bat hitz egiten ari ginela, Bengoechea andreak kexa bat azaldu zigun, Eskola Kontseiluan Eudelek orderzkaritza zuelako. Zehazki, zera esan zigun: "Many actors are represented in the School Council, but, as far as political actors are concerned, they are represented through Eudel, which is a bit shocking," he said, "because Education, as such, is not a competence of the municipalities; it is a competence of the Basque Government, controlled by the Basque Parliament. Well, then, the political representatives are represented through their participation in Eudel," he said. And he added that it did not seem right to him, because his group had had governance responsibilities in some institutions in the past, but at the moment it did not happen. In the world, there was a difference between us and injusticia. Es más, dijo litteralmente que nos habian echado." I tried to think that it would be necessary to separate my heart that day, and that it would end there, but I was wrong; for it seemed to me that there was no meaning at all. And today we are. As for the fertility of the educational right, no doubt, it's an important right to New Year's Education, but that doesn't mean that local institutions don't have anything to say. This legislature plainly determines the rights of the local councils of the local euscal laws, and in article 17. The mention of the matters of education is made in article 23. He says: "To maintain, maintain, and preserve the buildings of the public schools of education, of education, and of education. In the same way, helping the Ministry of Education find the areas needed to build new public schools." So the councils have something to say about education. Besides, every week at this time of the legislature, that it is in the pleno, that it is at the committee, and that it is constantly on the teams of urrengace, especially in the town of Esscal, in order to cooperate with the administration of education. And I would like both Mrs Bengoechea and the other opposition groups to remember so much of the inappropriate competences, which Mrs Bengoechea was now saying, when we discussed some initiatives in this House; in many and many very specific debates, we ended up appealing to the collaboration of the Basque municipalities, and, then, do not seem to you to be the wrong competences of the local institutions. As I said at first, it is defined in the law of the School Council, and we ourselves, in this legislature, arranged it a year ago, as I have said. And it is evident that this law may appoint six representatives of the Eucharistic administration of the townships, or the principal associations of the townships. And, in order to develop that jurisdiction I have just said, it is more important than ever that local institutions should be represented at the Basque Council. And the local institutions say, the councils say, not the political parties. That must be clear, Mrs. Bengochea. You yourself, last October, said "nos there echado." This makes me think that the Populous Party was sometimes a representative of the School Council, acting as a political party, not in the name of a Basque institution. Well, that's something to worry about. It is a logical fact that each local institution is conducted by a mayor in each term, accompanied by a group ofldermen, and it is clear that these Councilmen have submitted themselves to a list of candidates, or on the list of political parties, or on the list of a settlement, or on a list of citizens. But in the Eudeles they represent local institutions, not political parties. And in the preceding municipal office, as you have said, there were municipal representatives of gold, Urni, Saints, Squint, Mañu, and Zono; there were no political parties. And I suppose that Eudele, during this municipal office which we have just begun, will appoint his representatives before it is too late, and I doubt not but that it will be a plural representation of what Eudel planned. But whatever these representatives may be, they will go to the Basque Council in the name of local institutions. And, by the way, to update the information of one and the other, after the last election of the City Council, the Mayor of Gold is of the Jeltzian Party. It's too tight to be able to control the teams. Well, it's logical, and as far as it's an opposition party, that's one of the most important things to be done here, and so it's contained in the policy of this Chamber, and among others it's obvious to accept budgets, to promote initiatives, but even to control it. Every Friday, every fortnight, the opposition acts on that Friday, even on the questions he writes. And so I thought the Popular team was on that. So, this is what I'm talking about to control. I agree with you in one thing, Mrs. Bengochea: The legislative has much to say about matters of education. In the last four decades, the Basque Parliament has made very important decisions: He accepted the Euscal School Law, accepted the University Law, accepted the Law of Education, and we discussed and agreed on the grounds of the Educational Association. And, when I come to you in the future, he'll have to make a choice, because he's constantly changing the euscal educational system, because new challenges are creating, because new priorities arise. And I hope that all political parties, as well as Populous groups, should continue with that spirit which today has shown them to work and to give them an opinion, and that here, in the legislature, they may be able to obtain, in its proper formulae, just as plural an agreement. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours. de begorechea extrade Well, there's one thing I have to thank all the groups, and it's that all of you have remembered the importance our group attaches to the Euskadi School Council, because we brought the reform of the law and got the cooperatives in. I believe that, thanks to our initiative, we have achieved a more complete, richer and more projectional School Council in Euskadi. And, as all of you have acknowledged, I have to thank you. But the next thing I'm gonna tell you is... Mrs. Macazaga says, "And why didn't they do it then?" And it has been a reproach that you have made several of you. "And why did they use a non-law proposal"? Well, if you read what we propose, it is not that this is done already, as if it were part of a law; we propose in the next reformulation. And I can't guarantee you that by then we won't think of any other way to improve the Basque School Council. Because, come on, you guys seem like, like it's already been done, it's gonna be ad etherum. For example, I'm going to tell you one now. I have been wondering for some time and I want to put it in common with the group, because the IVEI should not also be at the Euskadi School Council? Because IVEI is a very important source for the Euskadi School Council. Look, I'm going to give you a data given by the Euskadi School Council, which is – I don't like it; I don't want to give very negative data right now – but this one shook me particularly. It is when the Euskadi School Council tells us that the qualifications that our young people achieve in the centers are always higher – I don't know if always, but, come on, statistically higher – than those that they achieve when it is the IVEI or another external body that makes them. That seems to me to be a very important fact. Something is happening when the schools qualify the students higher than the IVEI does. That seemed to me to be a very important fact. See, there's another couple of things I want to answer to, too. They say the education community has to be there. Listen, I, perhaps, am a fool, but I believe that political groups, and even this Parliament, are also part of the educational community. Because, Mrs. Ubera, you say in this house, "We have to work in this house." Yes, you're right, even in the streets. Even in the streets. And we have to be there talking to people and see what trouble they have, and how we're going to get suspicious. Orduan, I think... I understand why it turns out that the people we're engaged in politics have such a bad sign. Because, of course, if we stay here, we are not part of the Basque educational community; we do not mingle. And then, moreover, if we project that we do not reach agreements when we reach them so much, and when, personally, we estimate ourselves... But what do you think, that the one we're there is going to be to make a joke? No, no, It's going to be the same for what we're here for: to agree and agree on everything we can, and to respect ourselves. But, of course, you of the people who are engaged in politics and of this Parliament project an image like an isolated boxing ring, which I certainly do not share. In this house, even in the streets. And Consejo de Euskadin too. So, let's see if I leave something... I still don't understand all that thing you say about the municipalities, which names you Eudel, who are not like parties, who are like representatives of the municipalities. All the more reason for those who represent, among others, the whole school community in Euskadi, who are members of this Parliament. That seems fundamental to me, but not to you. And, let's see... I had something else pointed out here, but I don't understand; I don't understand myself either. Then I repeat myself. We are members of the educational community in Euskadi. We are people who are going to seek consensus, not to make a fuss, in general, except in very cases. We are people who should not be isolated from society. And we are already doing this as a GNP, specifically, because we are enclosing it in a forthcoming reformulation. And I tell you that I do not guarantee you that, in our desire to improve the Euskadi School Council, we will not bring any more things; in the form of GNP, yes, for the next reformulation to collect everything. And I'm telling you, the IVEI thing is going around in my head. Perhaps, if my groupmates approve, I can bring another one to say that the IVEI is there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u69	Thank you, De Bengochea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u70	Just one thing, I'm sorry. And, Mrs. Ubera, we too were brave and cheerful, no doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u71	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Basque Socialists, no. Is Podemus going to take the word together? No. Mrs. Ubera? Well, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u72	Mrs. Bengochea, she was very interested in it, and insisting on changing the composition of the Basque School Council. We also need to change the institutions of the Basque School Council, but not exactly in the direction you mark them. And besides the constitution, the function should also be reorganized. And we know we made several proposals about it. And we invite you to protect our legal proposition on the subject or the tramite, if you have such an interest in introducing changes to the Basque Council. For it is true, the Basque School Council has become an organ of the Government, an organ for the administration's politics. And we need a powerful Basque School Council, because it's really an important instrument, who's going to be serving the education team unit, who's going to work with the education unit, to open up reflection, to discuss. For sometimes we have to argue, we must confess, because with the conflict we proceed. If there is no conflict, it does not go on; everything remains calm. And therefore such controversies, such confessions, are necessary. And no doubt at this moment, though often it is of no importance to him, and, on the other hand, with regard to the Basque Council, where many chances have been lost in this legislation, we ought to give importance to this subject, because it is important, and still more to see the time at which we are in education and in life. So I encourage the rest of my teams to reflect on the Basque School Council, not only about the constitution, but also about the roles and the paper it has to fill. And especially in this house, I encourage you to work with firmness and firmness about education. And from us, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u74	Thank you, Chief. Well, Mrs. Bengochea said to see if the School Council Law was ad Eernum. Then, all of a sudden, you have turned us all, all of us, the 75, into an educational community. So far, I thought we agreed on what was an educational community, or that, when we talked, we talked about the same thing, but it turns out we didn't. I thought that when we talked about the educational community here, we were talking about the professionals who work day by day in the field of education, we were talking about the Education Administration as a whole, we were talking about the educational experts, we were talking about the students, we were talking about the families. I thought we were talking about that. It now turns out that the Basque Parliament is also an educational community. I do not know whether we are also a health community when we have a health debate; whether we are an environmental or railway community. We're all communities. What happens is that we are representatives of all Basque society, each with its own specific weight in this House. We represent all citizens. Does that mean we're an educational community? No, no, You mean we have to interact continuously with the educational community? Yes, of course I do. We need to maintain permanent contact and dialogue with all those actors, all those collectives that are part of the educational community, but, of course, our group is not considered an educational community. We are all representatives of Basque citizenship, but, of course, we are not an educational community. That is true, both our parliamentary group and the Basque Government maintain permanent contact with all actors representing the educational community. And Mrs. Ubera said that at this moment the Basque School Council has become an organ for evangelizing policies. And he knows better than he knows that's not true. In some cases, the Basque School Council thought that the public policies or specific enterprises which the Government has placed in action were just. In other cases, he has proposed definite improvements. In other cases, criticisms have been more remarkable. But there is no doubt, and there is nothing more to be seen in the yearly report which so much pleases Mrs. Bengochea, which is very helpful to everyone, that every year the Basque School Council makes its ratings and makes improvements, and, no doubt, it's not the organ of the fun policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of the proposition of Euskalia, like the Potula Group. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 65; Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-21.u76	So, not allowed original text. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. "Institutional expression of international day for the disappearance of violence against women. "Exquisitions for the machista of violence. "On account of the 25th of the star, the International Day of taking away violence against women, we reveal the structure of this kind of violence, and we wish to present our commitment to build a society without violence against women. In like manner, when we agree with the Julian international sphere, we assert that it is necessary to propose actions in all the fields of the intervention of the hand; prevention, perception, attention, protection, coordination, and justice, special attention to the people who have survived and survived. "In the case of victims of macho violence, it is understood that the end is the substantial improvement of the living conditions of the victims from the reparation of their violated rights and recovery. Similarly, the empowerment process that strengthens its capacity and autonomy to overcome the situation of violence must be supported. "The Basque Parliament assumes the recognized responsibility and competence for the care of women who suffer male violence in our towns and cities. Under the coordinated impetus of political and technical personnel, intervention in reparation is key to helping the restitution of community life and the social and public reparation of victims and survivors of machist violence. "The Basque Parliament undertakes to act to fulfil political commitments, and thereby to contribute to the eradication of all forms of macho violence, "The rights of victims are placed in the centre of the entire process of attention, listening to their wants and demands and attention. "With the materials and means of human means and resources necessary, which are specialised and qualified from the view of the revision. "In all cases of separation and power intervention, working to ensure management and speed. "Coordinately with all the institutions that have ever been introduced, to structure the resources of attention and attention, to ensure that the state of the victims of the machista violence will be fully restored and restored. "I am working closely with feminists and women's associations to design the policy and actions of equality in regard to the attention and observation of people who have survived and survived. "In like manner we call all the citizens, to act in an active manner in the acts of accusation and proclamation, which are to be organized in all the townships of A25." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-seven.
