ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I just want you to know that the second point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "Gather up [as] a parlamentary band [as] an offering, And [as] a covenant of the covenant of Rascal. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Other, representing and defending the role of the EHG team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u1	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you. Today, I think, at least, it's an important day. We're going to start a job that's unrelenting today, and here's a double worry behind us. As we have often spoken: On the one hand, the barrenness of resources, especially fossils, and on the other climate change. That is to say, looking closely at a challenge of civilization. We need to be conscious when we talk about energy, that climate change should be considered all the time, in a very large measure. More than eighty%, in general, and around 90% of our country, is a climate change by burning fossil resources. Whoever proposes to-day requires the work of all, and the commitment of all, and, moreover, for a long time. Therefore we have wanted to give him the character of a nation's alliance, to work which is to start from here. So far, in the midst of energy, we have spoken a great deal of popular traditions, and now we bring the way to this agreement to discuss it, or the principle of that property. We see that extensive agreements can be obtained in the sphere of energy, and then we present this proposition, after we have worked together in the law of the Myrgetic capacity. And that encourages us. Today's proposal is to make a clear purpose: The carbonisation of our economy. That is to say, he wants to set up the path to the end of the fluids which cause climate change for 2050, or, more correctly, he wants to start to determine that page. And all this, in truth, we propose from humility, because we know that we have no magic solutions as a group, and we believe that no one has magical solutions. His knowledge and impulse will be required. Moreover, we do not even know that we shall succeed in this, and that which may be still worse, we do not know that we will face the global problem, because we have no control over what others do in the world. And yet it seems to us that we must do it because we have a debt to the descendants. We propose this initiative in the most open way that we have ever been able to commit and be able to do so. Markauren inguruan – ztabaida-markauren inguruan – asko eman digkiot buelta, and I have the feeling that there is already a certain consensus, that all the alarms are ringing. The scientific community, oceanographers, meteorologists, physicists, biologists, no longer know how to explain it. We talk about climate change as a symptom, we talk about the dramatic loss of phytoplankton as a precursor to the entire trophic chain, we talk about extreme weather events, massive extinctions... The alarm and headlines are assumed by almost everyone and these last two days we have been able to see, also following the congress around climate change "Change the Change", that there has been a lot of news. But I have a feeling that these reports will increase or become more and more. I've received a few statements here and there, and I think we can share them in general. Mari Jose Sanz, director of the Basque Centre for Climate Change: "Global warming is a symptom of the unsustainability of our planet, (...) lack of drinking water can be a serious problem". This same week's headlines tell us that in the state the average temperature of cities rose more than one and a half degrees – in some cases more than three degrees. News that tells us that air pollution causes twice as many deaths, according to a report this week, of what had been estimated so far; Minister Rivera telling us that the measures in the fight against climate change have been delayed; and the deadlines have blown us. Bunny McDiarmid-ek esandako kontu bat, garrantzitsua iruditzen zaidana: "garaia da alarmistak iziziko, etxea erretzen ari baitzaigu". And while I was revising all these things, I don't know how long you've had it, but yesterday it's the 6th of the United Nations's Environmental Panel. The report went out, and what he says is horrible. He's still saying a lot of things, Klaro, it's a long report, 250 scientists have done it, but to say a little about four things: "The general state of the environment has continued to deteriorate around the world. The continued inability to provide urgent measures is having a sustained and potentially irreversible negative impact on essential environmental resources and human health. Progress is too slow to achieve goals, or even progress in the wrong direction." Eta niri diigarriena iruditzen zaidana, eta guk ere hemendik heldu nahi diugu honi: "It is necessary to take urgent measures on an unprecedented scale to stop and reverse this situation and thus protect human and environmental health". We think that's the frame. That the frame is hard, and that at present we are all or most conscious of it. The question here would be whether we are capable of answering as a people, not to spoil the future of the whole world; we are capable of resisting this double challenge of energy and climate. We think there's no other way, and that's the proposition we're bringing today. And, further, according to what scientists say, we seem to be the last generation to be able to do this. Maybe we're not the right generation to think about what we have to do and do the work we have to do. And here I want to make a suggestion about the young people. This call is opening for Gasteize, but this appeal is, in a certain way, a call from the world to previous generations-that is to say, to us, to leave our contests aside and make a real change in our beautiful ways. For the first time tomorrow, students are called to strike on climate change, and it'll be a world-wide action. A 16-year-old Swedish butterfly shakes his wings and raises a storm against climate change all over the world. And we've got to be clear that they'll complain louder and louder. There is little doubt at that point that the twenty-first century will be the test of fire. And it is normal, too, that it be this generation that is growing now, that is about 15 years old, that it be the one that looks at us, and that looks at us with a certain resentment. Because when we raise the horizons of climate change, and we know, the best science available tells us that with the policies we currently carry we will reach the year 2100 with a warming between four and six degrees that will be completely catastrophic... Of course, the 2100 of our generation is starting to stay away. But the people who are now between 10 and 20 years old the 2100 also pose it as a horizon of life, and if it is not theirs, it is that of their sons and daughters. And in this sense, I think, it has often been said, that when we speak of patience, it is patience to use the means to satisfy our wants, without compromising the means and means of life to which they come. And in that sense, I think they already have a feeling that something isn't working. They are becoming more and more clear that something is not right, because they hear us talking all day about sustainability, apparently everything we do is sustainable, and yet all the scientific reports tell us that the situation is getting worse. Therefore, as sustainable as we think we are, and the policies we do should not be. And, in fact, I've been drawn to one of the greatest demands, that is, one of its slogans, which is in English tell the truth I see here that we have to ask ourselves a question, because, though I say yes, I don't think euscal energy and climate policies have hitherto been very effective. Last week, because of the lucky feminist strike, I had no chance to question President Urkullu. But in one way or another, I felt that I had received an answer, not only by giving it to me, but in Congress of the climatic change: The President said that the subject was very preocupant, and brought some words from Guterres. But then, apart from this alarm, he made an attempt to calm himself: When we're a small town, we're engaged, we have strategys... I don't quite agree with that. First I think it must be explained to me what a small fluid is, and what a great fluid is, because in each country how many COs each man is. 2 or CO 2 the measure is that it spills the joints. If we look at the world, each person in the world of each other is 13,7 tons per year, and we transmit 8,7 tons of it every year. Therefore, seeing the average of the world, it is plain that we have less stability or stability than the course of the world or the inhabitants of the world. De Beho Though we look at Europe with respect to our reference, we are not in a very good place. 16 states are the ones that demand less than us for each person. It seems to me that we must place ourselves there, I mean, when we place the responsibility, we must not take the responsibility of the little town, but the responsibility of the great fluids. Klaro, it must be observed that our climatical strategy is done before we sign the Paris deal, that our use of my 2030 has also been delayed by the designs of Europe, and I do not think it true, or quite true, that we are speaking. It's a little bit that frame. It seems to me that we must admit that our policy has not hitherto been effective, that we must acknowledge that if the year of our year in reference to 1990 is checked, our leaks have only descended to 8%. We have to say, too, that we haven't got data since 2016, Idor didn't get the last report. So there's not enough information, not too much of a development. I do not say that there has been no effort, and that in several sectors the emissions have not been lowered. But in general we have not made the way to a real patience, or done well. Looking at the proposal, I think that other signatures will also make some mention of it, there are three main points here, and I'd insist on it. One is, in a certain sense, that we must either end with fossil resources, put a limit to it, and lead it to the most beautiful deficiencies of climate change and energy, which it has not hitherto existed. That's the first one. Then there's another point, a final point that encourages 2030 strategies to review the Elgetics in this process. But I should be focused in the last two minutes, I think, on the new proposition or the star proposal: the second point that marks the path to the beginning of the Altar energy treaty. Parliament urged the Government to press ahead with the work to achieve a Basque energy pact in the terms in which they were detailed. The truth is, we've done a lot of detail. There are a lot of specifications that equally is not the most normal for a non-law proposal, but it is true that we have wanted to be jealous and, when we have negotiated, we have wanted to establish the terms for such work to be done well. Here there would be a goal behind that is technical but that needs a political impulse. In other words, by 2050, the Basque economy has to be a carbon-neutral economy as an inescapable issue and, from there, with that final scenario, start making the way back, that is, until today to see what policies we have to implement with that final scenario; start making the way back, that is, until today, to see what policies we have to implement, in how many sectors, to get to that scenario. For this reason, what is proposed in this proposal, which seems to be approved by a large, very large majority, I would say, is that the committee of a number of experts, appointed by both the Government and the parliamentary groups, is to be set up, and from there they will be given a deadline to draw up a document, a document called the Basque Energy Pact, which will be carried out during that year, with the best techniques and the best science available, and will try to draw those intermediate scenarios, inevitably passing through that 2030 and those European objectives, at least, in order to reach 2050 with the objectives we have set ourselves. Then it seems to us that we can start a fine job from now on, but we want to say very clearly that it's important not only to encourage him to-day, but really to enter the work that's proposed to us, and then the work that comes from here, a year or so, and to sign a commitment about it. I think we ought to sign a large engagement that we should offer to all political parties, and also to the social and operating part, which has also been agreed on. And from that point on, for years to come, incoususo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u2	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u3	Yeah. To be a guideline that will lead to. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief of departments and members of the legislature. Today's discussion, today's proposal, is to protect the energy treaty and our team says yes. We say yes, as we said to the law of patience. The challenge, the challenge today, as Mr. Otero has mentioned, is not of any importance, we have over the climate change, the oil is running out, the emergency resources are getting smaller and smaller. There is no doubt that it is because it is dirty and expensive, and that it produces poverty. But the question is: How are we supposed to make this innate transition, and where do we have to go? And in this we are apt to doubt, because, as we think, apart from the agreement we have today, political discussion is there, the substance is there, where we must go. The debate is no longer whether we need to make an energy transition; it is inevitable and inevitable that we do so. The debate is no longer whether or not we need clean energies; we need to abandon fossil energies as soon as possible. The debate is not whether clean energy is an alternative or not; since April last year renewable energy is cheaper than most fossil fuels and also nuclear energy, and in less than ten years its prices have fallen by 80%. The debate today is no longer whether we need to change the Basque energy strategy that has been outmoded by agitated marches. The debate is what energy model we are going to develop in this country, whether we are going to stay with the current model or go to another model and that other model, what model will it be? That we have to move is clear; the question is where we have to move. We have a current energy model that is inefficient, that is expensive, and I will not talk here about the accumulated tariff deficit at state level, the price of domestic light, how it has grown, how we have an energy that is inexhaustibly expensive for our industries. But our model is also unfair. It is unfair because in 2015 one can go to the newspapers and find two radically different news: 237,000 Basques pass cold in their homes due to energy poverty and the benefit of the big electrics reaches 5 billion. In the same year, in the same year: energy poverty for the people of the street, growing wealth for the energy companies of oligopoly. And this unjust system creates discontent, creates anger, creates conflict, and we are already seeing it on the streets of some countries. Yellow vests are no coincidence. When a system is unfair, it ultimately generates protests. And when, moreover, the system is insolidary. Because this 31st December last more than 200,000 people in this country, in Spain, have run out of the social bonus they enjoyed, thanks to the agreement of the majority parties. And it is clear that this model is unsustainable. But if we're going to replicate this model with renewable energies, we're not doing anything. And this is the question we have to bring, which our group is obliged to bring here today. The new energy model that Euskadi needs has to be sustainable and based on renewable energy, it is true. It has to be efficient, and that is why our group supported the Energy Sustainability Act. But it must also be fair and democratic. Because, if it isn't, if we don't put energy in the hands of citizens, if we don't produce energy in a decentralized way and close to the consumption points, we will be replicating a model that, sooner or later, will burst into our hands again. I would like to bring here, now that I am talking about a decentralized and democratic model, the model which in Germany is being a success, not only of renewable energies, but of affordable energy prices, both for families and for businesses. The German model – I will put it here – places renewable energies in the hands of citizens. Half of the renewable energy production in Germany is in the families, is in the people; and another 15% is in the hands of the municipalities; and another 10% is in the hands of the companies themselves; and another 10% is in the hands of farmers. In other words, the energy in Germany is not of a few, it is of all and of all. And this is the system Euskadi has to go to. And our doubt is: on this path towards the transition that is to be undertaken today, thanks to the initiative of Mr Otero and Mr EH Bildu, where is this country going to go? Our group is clear what our model is, what we are not clear is what the model of the Government is, what the Government's commitment is. And I'm going to set a very simple example that happened several weeks ago. Lehendakari and Mrs Tapia, the Economic Development Advisor, presented the Ekian project, a large solar photovoltaic plant in southern Álava, located far away from all consumption points, centralized and in the hands of the usual companies. We see which companies support it and are the usual ones: Petronor, Sener, Bahía Bizkaia Gas, Iberdrola, Aernnova... The same as always. And while this large centralized solar plant is a success, our group asks what happens to the solar thermal panels that we have in all our homes and the government tells us that 85% of these panels do not work. Decentralized panels, panels in people's hands to reduce people's energy. Those don't work. The ones that do work are centralized plants to give business to the same companies as usual. That is why our doubt today is what the real commitment of the Basque Government is going to be. Because the compromise of the proposer, of Mr Otero, I have it clear. I'd no doubt appoint you as an Industry and Energy Advisor. But I would like to know what is the real commitment of the groups that support the government to the energy transition and to the business that will entail that energy transition; whether that business will remain in the hands of the same companies as usual, or whether it will pass into the hands of Basque citizens. And we have to bring these doubts here, and I'm sorry, but we have to express them, because we'll be able to form a team of experts with the proposal today to design the transition. It is well designed: members, labor periods, ends, tools, resources and methodology. We all agree with that. We'll vote for the side and sign for the side. But our doubts will remain there. Our doubts will continue, because our doubt is not to set up a committee of experts to pilot the energy transition. Our doubt is how they will develop their work. Because we have a very recent example in the Congress of Deputies of a very similar committee that has failed, that has failed. And it has been an example of how things should not be done and how a government, when it wants, can manage a committee of experts to achieve the goals it wants, and I am referring, at the time, to the People's Party. That committee of experts that was set up at the Congress of Deputies made an opinion, an opinion with much information, an opinion with all the technical data in the world, but with few proposals, and weak, with some particular vote and with only one result: when the Socialist Party arrived it put it in a drawer, and here peace and then glory. Therefore, if there is no real political will, and so far there has not been, to change policies, a committee of experts will have what the committee of experts on self-government has had, and we have that very recent example here in Parliament; what they are not able to resolve the political groups, is passed on to a committee of experts so that it is they who work the dissent. And so you can't do anything, so you can't do anything. What we are calling for today, in addition to signing this agreement, is to show the real political will of all groups to move towards a more sustainable, but also fairer and more democratic transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. For starters, yes, Mr Becerra, there has indeed been a committee of experts on the energy transition and we have the analyses and proposals of that committee of experts, here they are so that I can read them. Proposals for decarbonisation, you will like it more or less, in fact, you will like it more or less. There have been particular votes, some to focus more on some of the proposals – here they are too, I can leave them whenever I want to – there are concrete proposals and there is something you have not referred to. It speaks and develops what should be a regulation, basic principles of the governance model of the energy transition, something we should not like here and to which we make no reference, because it is one of the basic parts of the clean energy winter package for all Europeans. The part of governance, and that part is very important, marks an order. All member states should commit to comply with that governance regulation, so that then the parameters match us, so that we don't each do what we want and we can have as truthful data as possible. That's what's important and they haven't made any references, they don't care about that. What does that regulation say? Let us have a story of our own, that is clear, that it is didactic, that explains the transformations that the transition will entail in the medium and long term to the sectors: how it will affect transport, industry, construction; the impacts that it can have on the economy, on employment; the new demands for training and training; the territorial and social impact that it will have. That it be participatory, given this impact it will have, the territorial and social impact it will have, that it will be participatory. That, given this impact on the economic structures of society, the strategy for decarbonisation, its elaboration and monitoring must be open to the different productive economic sectors and to society in general. Let it be fair and just, let it not leave anyone in the way. We just need to see the automotive sector. Where is he? Well, in the gutter, right now, in the gutter. We started at the end. There's the automotive sector. Let it be effective and efficient in accordance with the commitments to which we have all committed ourselves at the international level, in terms of energy and climate change. It has management tools, quantitative objectives to be met, development tools, quantification of investments and deadlines, rigorous procedures for monitoring and evaluation of results, so that we can analyse and quantify the achievement of the objectives. The winter package of what we call clean energy for all Europeans is set out in three main objectives: to give priority to energy efficiency, to achieve large-scale deployment of renewables and to provide fair treatment to consumers. What's the situation here? What's your status? Look, we've passed a law on energy sustainability, energy efficiency, and, as a result of that law, there's a commitment and a plan that the government is going to bring in for the implementation of renewables. We have done nothing with consumers. Look, if I go to the law that we have passed in this House, it somehow affects two of the important parts of the energy transition and the regulations. And what have we done? We have broken down in this law, in chapter III, everything that affects the industry, private services, commerce, the residential sector, private transport. That is where we have done, we have legislated and we have also made commitments for these sectors. In addition, we will punish them if they do not comply with the law. And now – less than a month ago we approved this – you come and say that we are going to make a committee of experts to analyze how you are going to make your own Basque energy transition – your own Basque, you have forgotten to put "own" – that energy transition in the Basque Country. They have forgotten, as I said, to put that word "own". And it turns out that we have drawn up a whole chapter of sanctions because they do not comply. So, what have we done? We put the cart in front of the oxen. We made the law, we didn't talk to anyone, we didn't evaluate anything, we didn't apply the rules of governance, nothing. We have done it to the finger, I don't know who wrote it, but to the finger directly, because someone has written it, you bring it here and you vote, and point ball. And now we're going to bring in the expert commission for what, to correct the law? So he can make us the rules of the law? Because we have already legislated, listen, it is that you in the initiative say "we are going to make this committee of experts so that being aware that the energy transition will entail a great change", and that it is the proposal of the Basque Energy Pact will have to include, among others, analysis on mobility, on industry, on housing, on territorial planning... We've already legislated! If we have legislated and made the sanctioning regulation. So, what are we gonna do with what the experts tell us? Correcting the law? Develop regulations? Hey, there's no consistency in this. This has no consistency. Look, I think, on the other hand, we have to have 18 expert commissions? The Commission of Experts of the Government of Spain and a Commission of Experts for each Autonomous Community? What role will biofuels play in the energy transition? Is it different here than in La Rioja, in Cantabria or in Navarra? Is it different? Will energy poverty, in the energy transition, be different in the Basque Country, in Navarre and in La Rioja? Is the implementation, the engine of electricity consumption going to be different? Mr. Otero, I think, frankly, we certainly... Mr Becerra criticized the expert committee of the Madrid Government. I have no doubt. But, listen, the bill being developed by the Government is now using the data of this committee of experts. On Monday, there was a debate at the Elcano Forum in Madrid, the minister came out, and all the data she gave was from this committee of experts, on which she based the plan they have sent, which is in public display, and the preliminary draft law. This committee of experts is not in a drawer, nor the proposals they say, nor the analyses it makes. It's not in a drawer. It is being used by the Government. They don't report it that way, of course, how they're gonna say it. But the data they gave... there were a lot of experts at the Elcano Forum talking about the energy transition, and it turns out that all the data is here. Therefore, you will like certain names more, or less, but the reality is what it is. So, I was telling you, what about the obligations we have committed to in the Energy Sustainability Act? What's going to happen to this? On the other hand, it says, well, the Basque energy pact will also propose a final goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050. Look, the European Union doesn't set a date to turn its economy into zero emissions. On the other hand, in his proposal he said: "When the committee completes the Energy Pact document, a congress on the Basque energy transition will be organised for the presentation of the document and its parts". I don't know what the parts are. They just missed signing; it's weird. But all he had to do was put "and let the lehendakari already make an aurresku and an irrintzi". I don't know if it's about to get irrintzis, but... It's just, frankly, they just missed putting that on. I, ladies and gentlemen, really believe that we have an important challenge, but that this is very rare, a committee of experts after having passed a law, a law that affects almost 80% of what the European Union's Energy Transition Regulation, the regulations say. Therefore, I think we should not waste time. It seems to me that this proposal has been accepted by the Government, because it leaves us anesthetized by the opposition for all that remains of the legislature. He's put on a delicious candy, they're enchanted, anesthetized. I don't know what's going on with you, the problem that's been generated in the car and you're offering us a presentation. Hey, a paper? A paper is when you don't know what to do, you create a paper, because that's where we are. And this is the same. This is the same. How to entertain the opposition, and they, therefore, do as they may. I believe, Mr Otero, that the will certainly is not bad, it seems to me that it is good, that it believes it, but that it will not bring us much, because they will say nothing different than what is said here, nothing different. So, it seems to me that's wasting time. And that our work should be demanding that they do a governance planning: what they want to do, how far they want to get...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u8	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u9	And that, we're interested in these gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u10	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u11	Thank you, President, and good morning. Well, Mr. Otero, I am a little more optimistic than those who have preceded me in speaking. And first of all, I wanted to acknowledge the opportunity, the content and the agreement reached on a subject as important as the energy future of Euskadi. I believe that the proposal for a country energy pact would have arrived sooner and, perhaps, well, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, because I do not know whether the law had been debated sooner or later, but I certainly share with you that it is an important day and that it is certainly a starting point for what should be the future of energy policy in Euskadi. It is a matter which is true that it has generated much debate and, moreover, that it has raised it normally with its parliamentary group, but on this occasion, however, I understand that they want to overcome the partisan postulates, in order to mark among all the roadmap of the Basque energy policy. I think we're tired of repeating that it was an outstanding subject. The data of the economic dependence that we all repeat in this rostrum are an alert in themselves, and the obligation to take action to change things is already an obligation for the administrations and for society as a whole. We cannot forget, of course, the socialists who two legislatures ago were about to pass the first climate change law in Spain and who, by the will of some or the lewdness of others, was left in a drawer when only the adoption of the opinion was pending. It is essential to understand that one of the crucial vectors of global modernization and economic progress is at stake, and the window of opportunity we understand is open. We must move society towards a decarbonized economy, and I believe that we all agree on that. Energy policy and the decisions taken go beyond the Basque Autonomous Community. That is why we believe that we must not ignore the decisions of the Spanish Government, which have powers in almost everything, and those taken from Europe. The current energy model shares the view that it is unsustainable, especially if we think about climate change, the consequences we are already experiencing, and the serious impacts it also has on human health. The importance that the European Union attaches to climate change is due to the consideration that it is one of the problems to define our generation. A problem that we all talk about today and that many have denied for too long. The majority of society considers that an energy system based on coal, oil and nuclear power plants already belongs to the past. Energy policy needs a long-term formulation, and the development of a country policy, hence the need for a country pact. Historically, there have always been disagreements between environmental and industrial policy in governments. With this initiative, with this country pact as the main axis, we demand a height of vision, the search for balance and the making of concrete decisions and bets. If we take data from all over Spain, fossil energy is the backbone of the energy system, as it accounts for 74% of primary energy, renewable energy accounts for only 14% and nuclear energy accounts for the remaining 12 %. Consequently, the decarbonisation of the energy system in that time horizon that Mrs López de Ocariz, 2050, told us, poses a challenge for the economy and for Spanish society and, of course, for Basque. In 30 years, a qualitative transformation will be carried out in the way we save, generate and consume energy, with a direct impact on the traditional business model of the electricity sector, on the mobility of people and the transport of goods, on the air-conditioning of households, on the type of energy that moves industry, on the use of energy in trade and services. The transformation must be profound and systemic and I believe that the commitment of all political parties is not in doubt in Euskadi. The decarbonisation of the energy system must be carried out by acting on fossil fuels, but, of course, understanding that rhythms cannot be equal for all. In a scenario like ours, with data of energy dependence that we all know, with the obligation to take measures relating to renewables, with a business fabric that is true that in Euskadi is not the same as in other autonomous communities, we cannot forget the dimension that the energy poverty of which Mr Becerra spoke to us has acquired. We will also recognise that in this Parliament it cost at least 20 initiatives to recognize energy poverty as a new face of poverty. Because we were talked about one thing, we were talked about another, and they didn't want to make decisions. Today, energy poverty is being scaled up in the draft budgets, and efforts have been made to do the best we can, although we have to recognise that the budget line given to it does not actually assume the power to solve this new face of poverty. The 2017 annual report by the Basque Government itself recognizes the increase in energy consumption due to the overall recovery of consumption. Industry accounts for 56 per cent of electricity consumption, the service sector for 22 per cent and the domestic sector for 17 per cent. The initiative proposed today by EH Bildu follows the recommendation made by Ararteko through an extraordinary report entitled "The energy transition of the Basque Country towards a sustainable model", which is from October 2018. Chapter IV, entitled "Key elements for the energy future of the Basque Autonomous Community", contains much of what we have discussed in this House on countless occasions. The Ararteko textually recommends a social pact on the Basque energy transition, and collects much of what we have discussed in this House on countless occasions. The Ararteko, in a textual way, recommends a social pact on the energy transition: "This pact must help to continue the path already begun for the energy transition in Euskadi and accelerate the measures on which there is more consensus". We in the Socialist Group believe that the political side should be added to this social pact. Today, I share it with Mr Otero, we will take the first step to work on that future of Euskadi, because energy is a fundamental vector that affects Basque industry, the economy of Euskadi and the lives of citizens. The Basque Socialists also find interesting something that is reflected in the compromise amendment: the revision of the Energy Strategy 2030, a strategy that at the time was pioneering but which, indeed, in time needs to be renewed. It is important to update the data, the objectives and probably measures to further progress on this issue. A few weeks ago, as we recognized here, we passed the Energy Sustainability Act and in the portfolio of the Basque Government is the Basque climate change law, which we hope can also be passed before the end of the legislature. Therefore, we understand that it is essential to address the issue of energy, seeking agreements and setting targets for us in the medium and long term, forgetting to use energy as a bold weapon and forgetting the electoral moment or not in which the debates are triggered, I understand that for that it could serve the pact. It is essential to move from speeches to decision-making, we have talked too much, and too much time, about many things, but I think it is important to recognise that many decisions have not been taken. It is the moment of the real bet on renewable energies, I share many things of which Mr Becerra has said, and it is inescapable to work the energy from the hand of the environment, involving society, administrations and the business fabric. Our vote, of course, will be in favour of the non-legislative proposal. It is a vote convinced of the need for a country energy pact, in the confidence that from now on we will work responsibly to mark the road map of the future of Basque energy policy. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u12	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u13	Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning, good morning to all. I don't remember the first time I heard the president talk about a contract in energy, but I remember the last one. Last January, when he presented his plan in Equila, he spoke again of the necessity of this treaty, the plan which he presented in Equila a great project which will double the solar force which we now produce. I've heard the head of the board many times. I have mentioned the necessity of this pact more than once with Madame Rojo, and I have mentioned the necessity of it in this Chamber; and later, Mr. Becerra and Mr. Otero have agreed with this idea, but today it is not a question of who has gone on in any way or other. The point is now, after a few months has passed since we accepted the sustaining Act, we are back in front of a large agreement that will face the Middle Ages's transition. The Eusual Act is aware that the vicissitability and efficiency of the process to be made to a new energy model must be of great conformity to its execution. That's why he makes the transition to a tradition about the necgetic movement through the organization agreement and social agreement that will guarantee the arrangement of that area. In this inevitable process, it is essential that the transition should be started on the neurotic process. And on that road today we take a very important step. I don't know, actually, whether it's a step forward or a side step, but I'm pretty sure we're all right. With this plan which is going on today, we turn aside and give ourselves up to a group of experts to show us all the way to it, for this is the goal of the team: Power Transition integration of the path. There is also the use of this law of the Road, I think, of its essence. This report will have to consider possible proposals for the energy policy, influence on environment, the alternatives, and the corresponding economic cost, and the necessary strategy to fill the goals as efficient as possible, always guaranteed the security of economy and the security of supplies, economic growth, employment and environmental stability. Our team will ask our crew to appreciate the anxiety, doubts, and objections that changes which require the most energetic transition can produce in the community. A real social commitment is needed to reduce the transition to the most vulnerable collective damage possible during the process of my emergency. So we get a just transition that will promote economic, social cohesion between land and economic cohesion. We believe that the Myrgetic transition will inevitably introduce changes to a hundred productives, and, on that account, the Basque Acts, the Euncist demands that the team take the most expert transition as a possibility. Therefore the Mygetic transition must be well integrated with industrial policies and the EngrgiBsque strategy, after the adaptation of the Euskal industry to maintain its leadership in technology and innovation. "Where I like to go, I don't know." Just a month ago, we passed the Sustainability Act of the Basque Country and used it to claim, as the Lehendakari and the Councillor have done on so many occasions, as well as the spokespersons of the groups we support the Government, to claim a country agreement in all those matters which precisely did not collect this law. For us, as we pointed out in that debate, the law was already a fundamental leg of that country agreement and we had to swell his tooth or echo the need that for the rest of the issues, for the rest of the legs that have to do with the energy transition, we take steps forward. And I think that's what we're on today. We are taking a fundamental step towards the transition to a new energy model that we as a country must face without delay. We have been talking for two years about the need to build a pact around energy and I am convinced that today we are putting the first stone on one of the legs that make up, as I say, the transition to a new energy model. Because the fight against climate change, as has already been said here, is one of the main motivations for action in the area of energy sustainability, not only of sustainability, but of production, distribution, prices, etc. This transition will require actions that change patterns and modes of consumption, shift the use of fossil fuels and efficiently and effectively integrate renewable energy. This change can and must occur while maintaining a reasonable channel of energy for users and ensuring at all times the security of supply, both to individuals and companies. I also believe that it is important that this road should start from this Parliament, with an agreement as broad as we have today. And I think it is very important that in all that we have entrusted to a committee of experts to mark us the road map, let us somehow step aside to let them work. And if we are able to support an interinstitutional and social agreement, the implementation of the agreements in the right direction will be ensured. If we come, of course, as Mr Becerra has come today, already in advance, of withdrawal, things will obviously become more complicated for us. I was coming today to talk about the consensus agreement, I will not insist, as we have already insisted on other times, because I do not want to talk about Germany, which is the recurring example that Mr Becerra always sets for us, today he has touched on prices, other times it is, indeed, the revolution, to say the least, that they are having in the renewable energy environment, but we always forget that both in the one thing and the other, in both production and price, there is an element that has tremendous importance. I'm going to make a guess, start with the bonus car. In any case, the appointment of advisers to the Government remains in the hands of the lehendakari, who is not there because he is. It is there because it has behind it the support of two parliamentary groups, which in turn have had an x support in the ballot box. And Councilwoman Tapia, I think she does, I'll say, reasonably well. In 10 years' time, as I was telling you last time, you'll see how some people say they did much better even than they did. So, I, first of all, do not have that capacity and, second, I would not voluntarily put Mr Otero as Energy Adviser either. But look, I will tell you that Mr Otero has been able since his loyalty to negotiate this text that we are voting on today with the groups supporting the Government. With loyalty, with confidence, and we have been able to bring this text forward. And the will of this Government, as is the will of the groups that support it and that create so many doubts for you, is that which is reflected in this document. This document you have signed. If you have any doubt, you have to reread it again and there you will find where we have been able to meet those who have spoken from the zero minute and continue to say that it is important that in order to move forward on this issue we reach a consensus among all of us. I think it's a lot more important to build trust than signing and then coming here to say that everything is wrong, and that everything is going to be wrong and I don't know what. That distrust normally, Mr. Becerra, is the one that ends up dynamizing all this kind of agreement, and I'm really sorry. I want to continue to emphasize the support that the rest of the groups have given to the text and the confidence that we have had in negotiating it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing over to the answer shift, EH Collect, Mr. Otter, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u15	Yes, thank you again. Mrs López de Ocariz, I grant you three, I grant you three questions. One, the expression: "the text and its parts" is not a very lucky expression; it was worked in Basque and perhaps we should have talked about the annexes to which another part of the proposal refers. I'll give that to you. There's two more I'll give you. One, yes, we were talking about the Basque energy pact, and when we think about a country pact, we're thinking about our territory. We have a differentiated territorial perspective, it is obvious, but I also believe that, regardless of other reasons, it also meets criteria that are technical, because they have very little to do with the energy reality of the Spanish State, in general, and our energy reality. They have very little to do with the reality of the Spanish state's and ours' emissions, which, by the way, in both renewable energy and emissions, the Spanish state's numbers are quite better than ours. Everything has to be recognized. But, of course, our population density, our industrial fabric, our planning and our territorial distribution are very different, so the solutions also have to be very different. Because there are a few concerns about the territorial occupation that can have the deployment of renewables, for example. That is also why the renewable PTS we promote in the law. I also grant you that there is a danger, which you also shared with Mr Becerra, and it is true that once this is started, the issue, to some extent, I think, is not going to be complete, but to some extent it does come out of Parliament, which gives us some risks. I mean, it's a risk policy move, let's just say it that way. But in any case, I return to the beginning, to the origin of the proposal. All the alarms are ringing and all the prestigious entities are telling us that either we make a shared country effort, on a different scale, until we reach the global level, which means putting all the meat in the roaster, that is, contributing instead of seeing what differentiates us. That's true, we run some risks and someone has to put all the meat in the roaster. That is, to contribute instead of seeing what differentiates us, although it is true, we run some dangers that someone later or some later believe that they take the cat to the water to continue doing the usual policies. I don't think so. I believe that there is a fundamental issue here that is politically agreed – I understand – today, and that is that we have a goal. The objective is that in 2050 the Basque economy, the Basque economic metabolism has to be carbon neutral. This implies very important transformations. So, I think that already puts us in the right direction, but it's true that later there may be tendencies. What I do not admit is that you tell me that we have not made any reference to the governance regulation recently adopted by the European Union. And if you're using it as an excuse not to adhere to this, it's not true. Because it is true that in the first original text it was not put, but then, as we take into account your amendment, we incorporate it into the text and you can see it and I read it directly to you: "Parliament urges the government to review the Basque Energy Strategy 2030 in order to bring it into line with the objectives that the European Union has made explicit through Directives 2018/2001, 2018/2002 and Regulation 2018/1999." Regulation 2018/1999 is the Union's Energy Governance Regulation, which is the umbrella on which you have made all the argument, so it is not correct. But not only does it have this reference, but when it comes to drafting the Basque energy pact, it is precisely in one of the points that all these objectives are taken into account in the 2030 flying goal. Which means there's no place for what you're telling me. And with regard to a couple of questions, with regard to what you have said, Mr Becerra, I agree that this has some dangers, that things continue to be done as always. And you have set the Ekian project as an example and you have set it as an example that you are always looking at the same site. That's not what I'm worried about most about in the Ekian project. I mean, it is true that, in comparison, the German model of ownership of renewable energy installations, because it is a place to look at that aspect, not at all, but at that aspect. But it is true that the Ekian project is perfectly feasible and possible and can be done the way it has been done. The problem is that the other leg is undeveloped and the legislation for that is not entirely in our hands either. But it's true. It's okay. It is no bad sign that 22 companies are involved in a project. I am more concerned to know or recognize that for 24 megawatts that have been installed there will be to put 67,000 solar plates and eat 55 hectares of productive land. If we make a translation, for example, in the power to install that we have in a combined cycle, 1924 megawatts, and in 2050 we think that that should not exist, we are talking about eating a lot of territory. Which means that's got to get us to the other leg. To look for distributed generation, use of pavilions, roofs, etc. Not only the great renewable concentrated in a place of production, but indeed the distributed generation and then see how we adapt the network to turn it around. Then there are things from other places – such as Germany and property – that need to be taken. However, the inspiration of the pact, on whose fatherhood-motherhood I have no problem, in which it is shared, obviously, because we all saw the need, was more thought of the Danish model or the Danish proposal; in 2012 the whole parliamentary arc signed a document, and from there the policies have had some coherence, not without problems, I insist, that although the plan is drafted well and although we do well, not everything is solved. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u17	Let us see, Mr Grajales, I have put the German model as an example not of the energy model, but of the model of development of renewable energies. Only renewables. Germany has put renewable energies in the hands of citizens and that is a reality. It's not a wish, it's a reality. We have confidence, but trust is not innocence. The same loyalty that Mr. Otero has shown showed our group when he entered into the Energy Sustainability Act. Exactly the same. Trust is not innocence. We recognize the same dangers that Mr. Otero can recognize, and that Mr. Otero does not think... that we also congratulate him on this initiative. And under no circumstances, even if it goes wrong, we're going to go and say, "You see? He was an innocent man for a pact with the government." No, we recognize the importance of this issue, and that is why we also sign. But from there to get out of here patting us in the back thinking it's all done, there's a very long stretch, a very long stretch. Because, indeed, I also heard the Lehendakari talk about the energy pact in the presentation of the Ekian project, and I did not worry about hearing the Lehendakari talk about this pact, I was glad to hear it, but I do worry about hearing it in that context. Because if we leave the energy transition exclusively in the hands of companies, we have a problem. The energy transition is too important to leave it in the hands of companies alone, because companies have a private, legitimate interest, but they do not have a public interest, nor do they have to have it. And when we're looking for no one to stay behind, we can't pretend that it's the companies that do that job. That job is political. And I agree with Mrs Red that work has indeed been done to address energy poverty. The problem we have is that today the institutions are doing a job to solve a problem that comes from the type of energy model we have. It is the model that is unjust, it is the model that creates energy poverty. That is why this is a perfect opportunity, perfect for changing the model and avoiding energy poverty, not having to make up for it. Mrs López de Ocariz did not understand me well about the Spanish committee of experts. I have already said that, in fact, they have obtained all the technical data in the world, that report is very complete in terms of technical data. As far as real proposals are concerned, it has served no purpose. The incoming government, like the outgoing government, did not use the proposals. They use the technical data. But nothing's moved. Obviously, even if only the Basque pact that we approve today serves us to obtain good technical and scientific data at the level of Euskadi, it will have already done a part of the work. But that's not the energy transition. You've talked about governance, I'd talk about political leadership. Look at this committee of experts, of experts, we have entrusted you with the following tasks: to make the economic estimates of what the energy transition entails, to establish the instruments for financing, to give concrete expression to the competences we need. Legal changes and tax changes. Take it now! When we start talking about tax changes, here we're gonna have the deputies on top. And above the LTH is not even climate change. What are we going to do then? Are we going to resort to the committee of experts to tell us about tax changes? We're gonna have to treat them here. And there, if there is no political leadership, there is nothing to do. And then I, Mr Otero, will look over there and say, what do we do with the proposals for tax changes? What needs to be done in this country? Is Parliament going to approve them? Is the PNV going to the congresses to say "you have to do this"? If there's no one to tell the deputies what they have to do. No one, not even the UN. So, today our support is necessarily critical, necessarily critical. And from today we will row like any other political group so that the energy transition is a reality, but let us not confuse trust with innocence, I say it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. lópez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u19	Mr Becerra, speaking of the German model, I cannot ignore this circumstance: Germany has changed the articulation of self-consumption in the regulation, it has changed it. It has changed it at the proposal of Germany, and it gives way to what we call the sun's tax, what so much war gave us in Spain. Well, now there will be that sun tax, starting at 25 kilowatts and for all those that are primacys. Do you remember that? The German model, everything they told us, what they said and in this rostrum too, listen, at the request of Germany, German model. Mr. Grajales, the experts will take into account society, the sector... Look, everything you didn't take into account or consider appropriate in the Energy Sustainability Act, you didn't even take into account some opposition groups, look, all that now you're going to take into account the experts, okay. He also says: "No, experts will analyze everything that does not appear in the Energy Sustainability Act." Listen, if I go to the industrial sector in the Energy Sustainability Act appears the extractive industry, the manufacturing industry, the supply of electricity, gas, steam, air conditioning, water supply, sanitation activities, waste management and decontamination, construction... Do you know what doesn't show up? The agricultural sector. You know why? Because they do not consider it industry, that is why the agricultural sector does not appear. Now he's going to tell me any inspector in the world how he's going to move a 250 horse tractor with electricity, let me hear from some expert. Because, you know what?, we're basing all this on energies that still have a lot of uncertainty that we don't know how they're going to respond, and we're trusting everything to a future that's uncertain today, tomorrow I don't know, but today it's uncertain. And so, Mr Becerra, the Madrid experts give me the same, there are many questions that are common, very many, it is true, that then there are specificities in each territory, but there is a very important area that is common, that is, the behaviour of the biofuels because it is going to be here as in La Rioja, and many others, and energy poverty affects the Basques as well as the Riojas, the same. Just like here, because you know what's going on? That our autonomous community is expensive. Here it is expensive, here it costs us all twice as much as in other places, because our level is so high that we raise the level of all, of those who charge less and those who charge more. And so we insist so much from some groups on lowering taxes, because we are drowning a very important part of society, and that makes them go through energy poverty, because they have no economic availability, because we are burning them to taxes, and because we can lower them because we are collecting more, and that would alleviate energy poverty. Don't put a solar plate on it, too, but you'll tell me that if we lower the tax you'll have liquidity and you'll be able to put the heating instead of 19 to 20, you know? That's gonna do it. So, not everything we're going to trust is what energy is going to come and it's going to be much cheaper. We will see, here nothing is cheap, here everything is very expensive, because we have to feed very few much public administration, it is, and it costs us a potose this. And let's see when we think, that besides public administration we have to have economic fabric, because if not, we die, we drown. That's right, it's pretty basic. So, what I want to tell you is that regulation, now? But the regulation should have come before, Mr Otero, the regulation, that is, what is it? That the Energy Efficiency Act didn't need all that input from society? Because it won't leave anyone on the way, but this also has to be done from the bottom up, and the Energy Sustainability Act that affects construction, that affects the private sector, listen, has a lot of pending regulation, is going to affect in a very important way and, you know what happens? The trade sector. Do you believe that the trade sector knows that there is an Energy Sustainability Act here that affects you? You know that the owner of a house knows that there is a Law on Energy Sustainability that affects him, that he will have to make audits, that if he does not he will be punished, that there are very serious violations, 12,000 euros for not making a certificate of energy efficiency. You know what's gonna happen? Well, we'll get all hands on our heads when the time comes, but you haven't informed anyone. You have not, this has not been done with the basic regulation established by the European Union for all directives and applications of the energy transaction, it has not been done, and this Energy Sustainability Act affects a very important part of society, let alone everything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u20	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u21	Yes, thank you again, President. Well, Mr. Becerra, you were talking about trust versus trust. Secondly, he said, political leadership is essential. Yes, in this and in everything, but what cannot be is that before something that everyone says, or we have always been saying that it was fundamental, a pact, on this occasion, for the energy policy that overcomes the partisan, that we remove it from the political sham, so that we are working where we have to work, in order to be able to build what comes next, just stay, both you and Mrs López de Ocariz, in the negative. It is just that I do not, I think I understood you in your first speech that your vote was going to be favourable. Well, honestly, I don't understand you, because apart from criticizing everything and talking to us about trust and innocence, I don't quite understand why you're going to vote in favour, which I'm glad about, but I think your speech is not in line with that vote that you seem to be saying. Then he would tell us about what is going to be talked about or not, green taxation, the deputies, in this case, the Basque Nationalist Party. As far as I know, you have representation on the general boards of the three territories; work, propose and convince, which is, I think, what we have to do all the political parties in the institutions. He was talking about putting into the hands of the citizenry, that we have to work on this, when he was talking about Germany; he was talking about that, in fact, there is a long stretch, that from here nothing is resolved. I believe that the three parties that have signed the compromise amendment, the three spokesmen, have agreed that this is a starting point, where I do not know if everything needs to be done, but, indeed, much remains to be done, so I do not think that we are giving any thought to the fact, nor to the conclusion of anything, because, indeed, it is an issue which has also been very controversial in Euskadi, which I hope EH Bildu would have brought us this country pact many years ago, just as we would have been able to advance on issues such as renewable energies, and we would have avoided great misunderstandings and points of disagreement about what has to do with energy. And then, said Mrs López de Ocariz, I don't know if we are repeating the debate on the law we discussed a few weeks ago. That law initially suggested that it only affected the public administration, and I think it was said that one positive thing is that the scope will affect more, because not only the public administration has to take action on energy, on sustainability, on efficiency and on efficiency. Of course it affects the industry, it is that Euskadi is an autonomous community with a business fabric probably not comparable to other autonomous communities. I think it cannot be said that everything is asked of the industry, because it is not true, because I believe that this government has fundamental support for the business fabric, and of course it will affect the citizens, it must affect the citizens. It is that, in fact, I believe that the social conscience that exists on the street should apply also within the administrations. I therefore believe that this country pact seems to me to be positive, I believe that we are going to start working, we must trust, yes, Mr Becerra, in the experts, that is why people who are experts in this field are chosen. We will see how they work and wait for those first six months, whether they bring us or explain to us what they are doing and we trust that in one year this work has ended, because this, the energy issue is no longer a policy that is part of a department or a government, in this case the Basque or the Government of Spain, but I believe it will be part of the future of this country. The alarms are no longer alarms, because, in fact, the model does not hold up, that is what we have to talk about, I share with you and we should get to work, and, as I say, I hope that we will put aside the partisan policies and that we will have the height to look at what it has to be about energy. And, as I say to you, I hope your vote is favourable, but indeed your speech has nothing to do with what it seems you are going to vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u22	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u23	"Innocent, female name: condition of one who is free of guilt or sin." Well, indeed, Mr Becerra, you are not innocent, but don't worry, we are not innocent, and here everyone drags his cross. In any case, when I spoke to you about Mr Otero's loyalty in negotiating this initiative today, I never doubted what you had at the time, nor did I question what we had 15 days ago when we were talking about the non-law proposal that the People's Party presented to us, for example, on the sectoral territorial plane. But today, as some of the speakers who have spoken before me have already told you, we put a first stone. No clapping, as you said, no pause and no haste. Because I think sometimes, or I have the feeling at least, a very personal feeling that sometimes we are not clear what transition is. Transition is this that goes from this model that we know, today, to a future model that no one yet knows how it's going to be. We can have an idea, one, another; but we have to define two things: one, that station ends And, if you will allow me to give you the historical similitude, because in this case I believe that, despite all the alarms that are on, between break-up and reform, because in this case we have to pull through the reform. That is to say, this society has to continue living, this society has to continue working and electricity has to continue to reach our businesses, our homes; the alternative is candles, as someone said the other day, and I do not think that any of us are ready at this time. Then I think this has to be taken with some calm, because you run, run and the smell of burnt gasoline comes here. Let's see, we know where to throw in the way, but we don't know what that point of arrival is. And precisely I believe that the step we are taking today is important. We take from the political confrontation an issue that can be at a certain time purely technical, with technicians who are not angels coming from heaven, with technicians who are going to designate you, with technicians who are going to designate us, with technicians who, apart from their knowledge, have their approaches to life, their ideologies and their ways of being, doing and working. And there is the quid of the question, that they be able to reach an agreement, that they be able to mark a path; or the same they are not, that they mark us different alternatives, different paths, different states of the technique. That's what we don't know. And that's what we want somehow, that's the path we want to clear. And I imagine that it will happen to us all that, in fact, if the pact is given, if they come to an agreement, for there will be issues that we like more than others, and vice versa. But then we find situations like, "no, it is that in this country the bet on renewable energies has been null and void in recent years." And it's true that we're running a little late, we've already talked about this in this rostrum several times and I don't think it's time to pull it out. But at a time when the lehendakari, together with twenty companies, presents a single performance that will double the photovoltaic capacity, the photovoltaic production of the country as a whole at this time, now it turns out that this is no longer worth it. It's not worth it because there are 22 companies behind it. Anyway, at 22 o'clock you have forgotten to name one, you have named three or four, only. I remember some hotel, something. Finally, I think it is also important that we work on public-private collaboration for this type of thing. And let's be clear or let's say from the beginning, as in your case, no, listen I don't want large photovoltaic plantations, I want each four plates at home and out. But, in any case, I insist, I think we must leave here today with the satisfaction of the agreement, without innocence, with confidence and, if you do not want to clap, Mr Becerra, calmly, I offer you a hug at least, because I believe that, in fact, if we all put on our side, we are in the right direction so that in this country we can really transition to a new energy model, in which if we all share, as I say, all parties, institutions and the social sphere shares the direction and more or less leads the compass in the direction of that point of arrival, which we do not know at all, because I think we will be able to arrive. I'm running out of time, but I'm done, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, Mr Semper will understand me when I tell you that yours is not political, it is PP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Now that the debate is over, we're gonna go to the vote and vote for EH Collect, together with Podemos, Basque Socialists, the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 64; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; nobstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u25	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Parlamentarian Society, to appreciate and encourage hunting, as an economy, as a social and environmental activity, and as a contribution to the Eucharistic Aural Development. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, representative of the Basque Potula, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. We present this non-law proposal from the People's Group, firstly, to recognize and promote hunting as an economic, social and environmental activity that contributes to sustainable development and the maintenance of the rural environment. Hunting is humanity's first activity as a human livelihood and as the origin of its progress towards civilization...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u28	Hunting is recognized as a legitimate economic activity, which, in addition to generating income and employment, contributes to the socio-economic development of rural areas and is an indispensable instrument for the management of the territory. The first socio-economic survey of hunting in Euskadi tells us that this sector generates 300 million euros a year. The hunting sector brings together more than 60,000 people licensed for weapons for sport in the Basque Country. Of these, 60-65% mobilizes each year to practice this activity, we talk about about about 38,000 people. Of these 38,000 people, 43% do so in the Basque Country exclusively, and the remaining 57% also leave for other autonomous communities. If we look for territories, Gipuzkoa aggregates the highest percentage of amateurs who practice hunting, 45.1%, 16,563 hunters; Bizkaia 34%, 12,496; and Álava 28.9%, 7,626 hunters. In the Basque Country, in addition to having the compulsory license, they are federated in many cases, there are 380 sports associations and clubs. Gipuzkoa leads the ranking with 12,637 federations, Bizkaia 2.994 and Álava 2.054. He told them that hunting has a special impact on rural areas. It generates root and there are a large number of municipalities where this group exceeds 10% of its entire population. In general terms, this study shows that the hunting group represents 1.6% of the Basque population, below the Spanish average, which is 2.3%, and far below countries such as Norway, where the hunting population represents 4.8%, or Denmark, where the hunting population represents 3.1%, and Sweden, where it represents 3.2%. He told them that of the 300 million that we said generates Basque cinegetic activity, 250 remain in Euskadi every year, 50 million are employed to go to other autonomous communities and 3.7 million go abroad. As far as employment is concerned, it generates 1,842 jobs, of which 1,410 within the Basque Country and 432 outside. The role that the kinegetic sector can play in implementing wildlife control measures to prevent health-risk episodes is important. The European Commission recommends that Member States inform and sensitize all agents in contact with wildlife, and in particular hunters, because they are proximity agents who can best assess with the authorities and official veterinary services the detection of any symptoms that may alert them to an episode of health risk. However, despite the importance of the recognition of the kinegetic sector, there are voices that try to stigmatize this sector and throw down the various contributions it makes to us, in addition to putting the employment of thousands of families at risk. That is why from the People's Group we want to highlight the kinegetic activity, which is so important for the maintenance, for the respect and conservation of the natural environment, and, as I told you, for the employment and wealth that it brings us. From our group we have made an initiative, a proposal, the groups of the Government and also of the opposition have tabled amendments to our initiative, and we have reached a compromise amendment in which we say that we from the Basque Parliament consider that hunting, provided that it is done with regulations, with regulations and under technical and scientific considerations, can be compatible with the protection of the environment and respectful of other activities that take place in the natural environment. Because, in fact, hunting contributes to the maintenance of the natural environment in an important way. In that initiative we also say in our compromise amendment that we believe that overabundance of certain animal species in the natural environment must be managed from technical and scientific criteria in order to avoid their proliferation and ecosystem conditions. Within management measures based on these criteria, hunting can be considered as another tool for achieving proper management of the environment. We also urge the Basque Government and the outlaws to set up joint working groups composed of heads of various departments of the Basque Government, experts and scientists, in order to analyse the problem of swine fever, as well as to manage it correctly and multidisciplinaryly. It is true that the European Union, in the face of cases that have been detected in Brussels ( We believe that it is, on the one hand, a support to the hunting sector, as I have told you, for the contributions and also for the contribution that they can make in this case to manage the natural environment and, specifically at this time, to be vigilant in the face of possible conates of certain diseases that may appear in our territory. This is what I wanted to propose, we can talk much more about hunting and the contributions that it makes to us, insist on many more numbers, but I think the important thing today is that we have reached an agreement, and that it is a support for the hunting sector in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u29	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u30	Good morning again. On this second point, we are discussing a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party for the recognition and institutional impetus of hunting. Our group believes that this institutional recognition, this momentum, is not necessary here in Euskadi. It is not necessary at all, because if something has the hunt in Euskadi it is that it is protected and even privileged by institutions, and even when it fails to comply with the law. And also, in general, it is falsely exalted, even with data that do not conform to reality. Because the proposal of the People's Group is based on a series of data obtained from the hunters' collective, from a foundation of the hunters' collective, which, as I say, are all the less questionable. Because if we go to the real socio-economic impact of hunting in Euskadi, the sector itself, and Mrs López de Ocariz has said so, it evaluates the number of practitioners by 60,000. False. There are only 17,000 federal licenses. A third of it says, a third. For an idea, golf in Euskadi has more federated practitioners, 18,000. And I do not think that a group, in this case, should make a proposal, a non-legislative proposal that would say "Parliament recognizes the strategic value of golf and those who practice it". We'd think it was out of time at the very least. And this is what this proposal has, which is timeless and unnecessary. This is Mrs López de Ocariz speaking of 1,400 jobs in Euskadi, only in Euskadi. The Spanish Royal Federation of Hunting in 2004 estimated that there were 15,000 jobs throughout Spain. Do we have in Euskadi 10% of the employment of hunting in all of Spain, with kinegetic communities such as Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura or Andalusia? Not at all. Not at all. These data do not fit reality at all. He also talks about the economic activity generated by hunting. EUR 300 million. Euskadi has 135 elbows. Castile and León has 5,800 and generates 600 million euros. Is a cove 20 times more profitable than a bourgeois cove, just 20 meters away, 20 kilometers away? Not at all, not at all. The hunting data in Euskadi are completely inflated. And this sector here is not as representative or as important as it can be in other places. But what bothers me most is that we talk about hunting as an agent of rural development, of rural development. For example, there are Basque municipalities with more than 10% of the hunting population. Let's say what municipalities they are. Mrs. López de Ocariz didn't say so. It could be, it might look like it's Barakaldo, it's Eibar or it's Irun. Well, it's Amoroto. 120 inhabitants, in Bizkaia there is only one municipality with more than 10%. Amorote, with 120 inhabitants In Álava there are three, the most important is Kuartango, 218 inhabitants. And in Gipuzkoa there are 20, the most important is Gaintza with 419 inhabitants. That is the real importance of hunting today in Euskadi. And I would like to compare, and in my amendment I have done so, the importance of hunting with the importance of other sectors of the population enjoying that public space which is our rural world, our mountains, our ecosystems, our forests. The importance of hikers, mountaineers, mountaineers, cyclists, people who walk, the basritatras who live there and have to work and have to suffer more than once to the hunting sector. The mountain sector, the number of federations and mountain federations in Euskadi doubles that of hunting, and use natural space, use nature for their enjoyment, for the enjoyment of landscape, culture, ecosystem and customs, without having to bother anyone. And that can't be said by hunting. Therefore, the wealth that we can achieve in this country by protecting the environment is far superior to that which can be achieved, today, with an activity such as hunting that has more past than future, more past than future. Because if you read the first paragraph of the People's Group initiative, it says: "Without hunting you would not understand the protection and conservation of species, both animal and plant, and the conservation of natural, forest and historical heritage." If you continue to reassemble, you may come to reinterpret Genesis. Because you are reinterpreting the reality of hunting in Euskadi, and you are not. If we want to protect and conserve species, it is enough for us to leave them alone. And, if there is overpopulation, you can face that overpopulation in many different ways to shoot them. But if we talk about biodiversity conservation, we have to see today what experts tell us, the forest agents who are on the hunting grounds every day: the traps, the poisons, the ties they find. In this Parliament there has been talk of environmental crimes and forest agents have appeared and have come to say how many crimes caused by the cinegetic sector are covered in the Basque Parliaments, because the environmental crime files that should be dealt with are not dealt with. And how many protected species are slaughtered in this country by unscrupulous hunters, who are not all, who are not all, and I have to make it clear here. But the really surprising thing about this initiative, and with this I conclude, is when we start talking about preventing episodes of health risk, related to wild boars potentially transmitting African swine fever. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Spain there is a problem with African swine fever, and it comes from the fact that the hunting grounds are introducing Central European wild boars with African swine fever, because the Central European wild boars are much larger than the Iberian wild boars. And they like to kill bigger animals. And African swine fever has been brought to Spain by wild boars imported from Central Europe by the kinegetic sector. And let us now be told in this proposal that those who have created the problem will be able to solve it by shooting is at least surprising. Therefore, our position, the position of the Elkarrekin Podemos group, is that it is not necessary in Euskadi neither to exalt nor recognize the hunt. And that in the compromise reached by the various groups we are going to abstain. However, we do recognize that there are a number of good things in that transaction. Basically, it is clear from an analysis of its content that neither Euskadi nor this Parliament recognizes the strategic value of the hunting sector and of those who practise it, that this Parliament does not value the important contribution that hunting makes to Basque society and that this Parliament does not consider hunting to be interesting or important for controlling African swine fever. With this, we are satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u32	Yes, good noon again. When the subject entered the legislature, our party did not see him at all. And it seemed to us, and it seems to us, that in order to see in the state how much more does Mrs. López de ocarariz and the group of the Potion party bring this discussion, the more ardently defender of hunting and hunters, or whether this other band of ultra-violators is defending them from their right or from their right. I think it's more there because otherwise you don't understand too much. Besides, knowing this, well, as far as may be, it is much more convenient for him to discuss matters in the General Assembly than that of the Law; Eta, of course. We're not ourselves, it doesn't seem like we have to be to celebrate the role of the hunters. But the truth is that once the subject comes here, it seemed to us that, in different contrasts, not only with the hunters and not only the hunters, but also with the keepers, the technicians, the N0logists, and how, even with the hunters, we might talk to them and see if there could be some agreement in our society with the role of hunting or hunting. And therefore it seems to me, that we proposed to make some changes, and I think, as has been said, that it leaves hunting in its place, or at least leaves it in the terms which this legislature ought to admit, that it may always be compatible with laws, rules, and technical measures, that hunting may be compatible with the care of the environment and of the country. And from that point on, you have to manage the management of different species, or the overpopulation, or whatever it may be, with technical and scientific criteria, and, in that sense, you have to cheer yourselves up, with fun and hamlet, with different agents, and always with technical criteria, just to see how to manage these overpollitions. Anyway, I come from the country world, and beyond what we can say here, I know very well the area, and, I dare say, I am not a hunter, but I am a hunter, if I am in my family, and I am, in some measure, a mushroom-collector, as a good gimpian, and it seems to me that there is no question of making any four stories here in one way or another, or of making use of nature in some other way, but that we ought to say that there are other parts of the world, and that there are several other means of being compatible with the rest of things in the country, and that we ought to be sensible of it, and that there is not much more of it. And we are focused on it, because the hunters have their virtues, an advantage of the mountain or of the several species in the mountains, which is legitimate. We may use the trupphic chain as a stoper to prevent this trupic chain from going so far as or to prevent excess, and so many other benefits might be produced around us. Often, and this happens in a lot of Araban, for instance in different kotos, where there are small towns, and when the hunters are small, it often allows them to keep open paths and to accept certain accounts, a compatibility. But at the same time, and in contrast to this, the hunters also produce their own evils, when they do not do things the right way, and so it is. And here we have been talking for many months about environmental conditions and anxious environmental conditions, shooting and killing protected species, and many more carefully. And even there hunting, the hunters are involved. I mean, when we say that you agreed there too, Mrs. Octave, when we say that we have to follow more closely the environmental figures, the rangers, the woodkeepers must grow, we all admit that around the chase there are some circuits, and that it is not easy to resist the furtyrism, and so on. The rangers have also claimed that they have great problems with the funrivism of the night, and that they have often to call the bordering, because there are people with arms on the other side. I mean: As in doing any other activity, the hunters may have some benefit, and on the other hand there must be a great control over them, which, in the end, takes place with certain hunters, is very human, so that when you go to the mountains and there are many, you can be tempted to get a great deal of it, and there is trouble about it. I don't talk about hunting, I can be around anything that can be gathered. Two kilos of bracken can be gathered in the day of the mushroom person. But we all know how the mushroom-collectors walk when he's a guard or when he's an umbrella, because he leaves the trap and runs along the other roads, and that's a breach of laws and regulations, and that's what happens, and it's also with the hunters. So we don't see it at all to praise the hunters. Let them respect rules and laws, and settle by the sight of other evils which they produce. And finally, I want to make a small mention about the boar. The vetein has spoken, and it is true, but I think we must go round the subject here too, for I dare say that it has often been proposed to resist the overpopulation of the boars, and to prevent the damages which produce them, as a single solution of the game, and that the vets have increased and increased the intervals of time; And what we're seeing is that in the last ten years we've been hunting more and more boars. And there's an effect here, we all know, and it's that the hunters pursue the larger pieces, that they meet the mature females which are often propagated, and that sometimes makes the teenagers sometimes to be placed in the way to reproduction. That's one of the effects. It's not the only one. But we don't know, it's not clear what was the hunting part, whether it was useful or whether it's produced a stress in the population and it's in trouble too. In any case, we admit that there may be a tool in certain cases of hunting, among others, because other tools must also be explored. And it is plain, that in the presence of certain species, hunting is not the only solution. So it seems to me that we've been doing some kind of contact here, and that from now on, you know, I've been trying to fix things up at those tables. And if we're lucky we don't have to talk about this again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u34	President, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative brought to us by the People's Party here today was about two situations, two things: one was to give value or consideration to the hunting exercise; and the other, to take care of, to protect fauna in all its aspects, also in health care. I believe that, in view of these two approaches, which is a bit substantive of the initiative, it is worth remembering that in the Basque Country there is a Hunting Law, that anyone who looks at it will see that it is very complete, that it practically addresses everything and, in fact, addresses these two aspects that were raised in the initiative. The Hunting Law speaks of the social root of hunting, speaks of the conservation of fauna and speaks of the health status of the species, which is part or almost the fundamental thing of what was brought here today, and then, moreover, it is a law that has been reinforced on many occasions by regulations, by decrees with which it has been regulated and also with a very specific, very special edition, which is a hunting guide, where, moreover, from an ethical and environmental perspective, how to incorporate, to make the hunting coexist in the natural space in which we are. I would therefore say that we are not exempt, absent, with deficiencies in the regulation of hunting, but, well, it can be recurrent, from time to time, to give a philosophical turn to these aspects, even if it does not go far beyond what is already regulated and, in fact, what has been achieved is a compromise amendment with four groups, in which the elements and considerations that are already in the Hunting Act and that is that hunting is absolutely compatible with the environment, which is even part of that conservation of the environment and which is also compatible with other activities that occur in the natural environment. Therefore, it is good that we repeat that which was already established in the Hunting Law. It is clear that we have to deal with any contingency that may exist in relation to the health status of the species – we are talking about the wild boar – it is obvious that we have to do so. In turn, since there are powers not only of the Government, but also powers at the level of the outlying territories, there are outlying ordinances, and it seems absolutely reasonable that there is coordination between the parliaments and the Government, and that forms of encounter are created in which the most occasional problems are dealt with, as may be, at a given time, and at this point, that health problem which has been discussed. Finally, it seems to me all so much of a pine wood drawer that it seems to me good that we take the time to talk about this once again, but what I do not think is that it will come out nothing new, because everything that can be said and what should be said about it, is already said and for many years. And it seems to me that today in this Parliament and at this point we are going to hunt very little.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u35	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u36	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Long ago, our predecessors, men of cromagnomnon, hunted, reaped, and constantly went from one place to another to survive. Thousands of years later, more and more Sapiens. In short, the evolution of Homo sapiens From there it evolved generating new economic models. As he was sedentary and somewhere he had to live, created or was creating a housing market that has ended in what we know as subsidiary rules. His surplus production was selling them to his neighbors, he started by inventing proximity sales, and he ended up inventing transgenics. He began to get bored of living always in the same place and gradually decided to travel, invented tourism and has ended up inventing the cruises. From all this came inconveniences, for example, as he no longer hunted, non-domesticated animals spread like gunpowder, attacking domesticated animals, forest crops and even humans themselves, which forced him to re-hunt to defend his economy and life, which not necessarily to feed himself. This is in short the human evolution, very much attached in a minute, stop hunting to feed, become sedentary and re-hunt to feed. After thousands of years of human evolution, and despite everything that has changed everything, hunting remains part of our society, although not as an activity to achieve food, even though hunting eats and nourishes large dishes of great restaurants, nor essentially to prevent animals from destroying agriculture and livestock, although kinegetic activity is fundamental to preventing such damage. Hunting is today, basically, a hobby, a leisure that, by devoting itself to eliminating other living beings, has always been controversial, because, of course, human society is composed of billions of souls, and each one has a vision of his things and usually has another vision of the hobbies and things of other souls. A hunter's job is to sell the game, and it's the basis of this explanation that man can't avoid almost all physical space, to take care of economic activity, agriculture, blacking, and foresting activities, cities, housing, and industry. And the infrastructure to communicate them all. And it's just that when he's no longer a hunter, Homo sapiens This complex coexistence must be organized, and once again organized from the anthropocentrism in which we are settled Homo sapiens himself. Anthropocentrism arises basically because, if within the same species Homo sapiens homo sapiens And so, some species has to be the one to put order and the most skilled, just for the moment, Mr. Becerra, just for the moment, it's Homo sapiens. The management of biodiversity trafficking should be based on the initial premise that no animals should be slaughtered and that each species should be allowed to expand to the extent that its biology and habitat permit, but each on its own site and And it is that, although there are theories for all tastes, the most predominant and the most common sense comes to say that certain economic and social activities of man are incompatible with a nature left to itself; to the extent that certain populations of animal species, even internally having systems of control of their population size, to the extent that part of their expansion depends on the occupation of human economic systems, before reaching their population climax have eroded those economic systems, and, of course, that cannot be. For all this, Homo sapiens cool It must be admitted that the organization of the cynic activity was formerly not the best, and that some of the members of it produced an excessive exploitation. He condemned certain species to disappear, until they were practically exhausted. With the environmental mission that, thank God, increasingly dominates the layers of society, the vision and, therefore, the organization of the hunt, must undergo new missions. Among these, it should be noted that the administrations responsible for the vetoes, must have the best technical data to make their decisions, and that those who practice hunting must take on the role that they have. And, as in any system of social organization, it is up to them to learn and comply with the rules. In any case, with this new model, the first decision to be made is whether hunting is allowed. A question which, although much is debated, I think it is obvious and in general, if not in its entirety, the technicians of the matter decide to do so, in general. Regardless of the business, the businesses, the jobs that are generated around them, which will also have to be considered at the moment, as we consider in all the matters that we are dealing with in this Parliament. But I'm shirking it in the initial decisions that need to be made. Our position, therefore, is unquestionable. Hunting is necessary to organize the traffic of living beings that camp for nature calmly and freely. To manage their abundance without putting their risk or survival as a population or biodiversity, in time for them to interfere as little as possible in the rural economies of the primary sector and today also in the safety of traffic. When the bushes begin to occupy the mountain, we make a mess of it, clean it, feed it, or forest it. For in the case of the animal species, when it does damage to the owners, in the grain, or in the sheep, the number must be lowered to diminish the damages. The ethics of improving the environment when some animal species harms... The ethics of the environment are not in conflict with the kinegetic practice, it is not in conflict, because there is also an ethics of the support of the rural economy and of the defense of the agricultural sector. Even when we want to protect spaces to increase its biodiversity, we find that at the same time we create shelters for all kinds of fauna; concluding that the one we wanted to protect is displaced by another, which increases its population too much, and we have to go to silent professional archers to eliminate the wild boars, as in Salburua. And all this directed by technicians of whom no one doubts their environmental ethics. And it is that the proposal that was originally brought here meant that each group should be defined as whether we defend hunters or not. And we understand that he was a cheater. Because it is not the hunters and the hunters who are being attacked, it is the hunt, to which it is imputed, by raising the rank of the debate, as an ethics-free activity. But hunters are simply the necessary instrument for the activity of the hunt to continue. That is why our amendment and the one we have negotiated talks about hunting as an activity, which should be discussed. Without hunting, hunters would disappear, while without hunting enthusiasts the kinegetic activity would not have to end. And our conclusion is that hunting is necessary to maintain it in order to enable all species to coexist with all rural economies that take place in a space that, as it cannot be self-organized, requires rules that enable such coexistence. In this organization, hunters – and there takes advantage of leisure and hobby – play a role, which gives them the boundaries and regulations designed by the technicians, in order to achieve this coexistence, and, if there was no such hobby of hunting, they would have to invent it or have professionals, as in Salburua. Orderly hunting, from rules that dictate those who have previously studied the situation of the affected populations, is necessary to reconcile biodiversity, security and rural economy. In order to implement those rules and achieve compatibility, it is necessary for those who apply them, who are none other than the essential hunters, whom, whenever they respect the rules, we too should respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing round to answer, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u38	To clarify a term, Mr. Otero, I don't know what I meant by the initiative presenting it in a moment... In June 2017, I made an amendment to an initiative tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, and my amendment reads as follows: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the social partners in the hunting sector, to establish mechanisms to highlight the important contribution that hunting makes to Basque society and to disseminate its knowledge. Secondly, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the social partners in the hunting sector, to disseminate and disseminate through information campaigns the values of hunting, its traditional characteristics and respect for the natural environment, and to promote the practice of kinegetics among the new generations". It's not from now on. When I have had the opportunity I have positioned myself and will always position myself in that line. I don't have another one, it's the one I have. I come from where I come from, my environment is hunter, I recognize the values that hunting brings and I will keep them always. Let's be in period a, b or c. Mr. Becerra, you question all the data. Of course, if you don't, everything is questionable, of course, we already knew, but it is that you still had an important development. You do not recognize that the arms industry is part of the hunting industry. You do not recognize that the gunpowder sector is part of the hunting industry, that we are almost the only ones who have that industry and that it is a very important potential. And that doesn't recognize it; as it doesn't recognize that, then it doesn't fit anything. But we're there. And, of course, he's talking about country visitors. Field visitors are the protectors of nature, aren't they? And hunters are the predators of nature, listen, no, no. Because Mr. Telleria tells me: "You speak of hunters. Much has been said here about hunters and very little about hunting." Some, huh? So... Let's leave the little animals alone in the countryside and let them flow freely through the countryside. Well, look, I now, look, I smile when I see the rooster coming and you eat the little heart of the escarole, the buds of the peppers... He comes around seven o'clock in the afternoon, I can go see him, we greet him, we look at each other, he's already part of the family, I'm almost going to register him, the boar also goes through there, and the fox doesn't see him, but he eats the chickens, if he can, you know? So I don't see that one. But look, when in my house there was agricultural activity and there were fields of wheat and cereal, for it did us no grace, nor does it grace my neighbor who eats and destroys corn, you know? It doesn't make him any fun. And you have to order it, call it whatever you call it, but you have to order it. So, I invite you, I have the schedule, almost the time you can go to start a relationship. I'm telling you, I'm going to register it. And then, listen, crimes in the cinegetic sector, that is, let's not stigmatize the hunting sector. Because, look, Mr. Becerra, I don't call you a criminal because a senator of yours has committed a crime. I don't call you a criminal. And you're calling all the hunters criminals. And it's not like that. I think it's good enough; let's put things on track. All right, huh? And, Mr Otero, hunting and any activity must be carried out in the technical criteria established by the rules in force. What do you have to put it on? That we need to insist? We insist, but it's obvious. I'm not going to... And then there's a question why do we stigmatize hunting and not stigmatize fishing? Aren't the fish live animals? The trout, aren't they live animals? What's going on? What's the difference? Why? And Mr. Prieto, I say to him, "Doesn't bother the hunt, the hunters are very upset." And then, Mr. Otero, I am graced by the stress of the wild boar population. I'll tell you how stressed you are. I mean, no stress, they come and go with an amazing tranquility. They cross the road with an impressive tranquility. Next to my house, people say to me, "Have you seen the wild boars that cross in front of your house?". Well, there they are, they come and go. Stress, none. Not these.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u39	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u40	Well, what I was telling you, we reinterpreted and ended up in Genesis. Mr Telleria says that nature is left of itself, and he has come to tell us that wild animals live exclusively to eat domestic and human beings, and he has also said that wild life encamps in its wide and clear, who will come to put order, man, the human being, who already goes for 7 billion souls, who each year make disappear hundreds of species, other species, not that of the human being. Someone has to put order in the traffic of living beings, this has been said, literally, someone has to put order in the traffic of living beings and it has to be the human being, of course, is not going to be nature. Look, since we talked about wild boars, the Álava Diputation made a study of what days the largest number of wild boars were being run over and on Mondays. The forest guards, doing an analysis of why it was Mondays, came to determine that it was the Saturday and Sunday hunters' beats that made the herds of wild boars go to waste, and that, when they returned to their feeders, on Mondays, through the places where they usually did not cross, the vehicles ran over them. Look where it is. Well, we have to put order in this, don't we? We have to put order in this. My family's from the country, too. It comes from a post-war camp, where they did try to hunt, but they didn't leave them; whoever was hunting a rabbit, the Civil Guard filled it, because the rabbits were for the young men who came from the city to hunt them on the weekends. And nowadays hunting is still an activity of city people going to the countryside to hunt, of city people going to the countryside to hunt, mostly. And where do they spend the money? In the city, to buy the hunting material in the city, in the transport in the city and in the accommodation. And what we have to look at today is towards the future and not the past, because I said that hunting has more past than future, and if we start talking about evolution, says Mr Telleria that the origin of hunting was progress towards civilization. Look, civilization arrived just when the hunters decided to become sedentary, then cities arose and with cities came civilization. Civilization came when the human being parked the hunt at once, and today what we are debating is whether it has any economic and social justification, that is what we are debating, and it does not, because today, if we look at the 21st century, if we look at the future, protect the environment, observe nature is much more rewarding, but it is also much more economically profitable for the rural world. As long as we do not understand, we will not just take the step of evolution. Obviously, this has nothing to do with ethical issues and I have deliberately left them aside, because ethical issues will be for everyone. But, look, when an activity requires cultural protection or historical protection, in that same need you are recognizing that the same activity is becoming a living museum, a relic, and you have all the right of the world to present a non-law proposal on hunting or to exalt painting in caves or the use of silex axes, it gives the same, evolution goes on the other hand. If we don't understand, sooner or later we'll pay for those consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Meet EH Team, yes, from there, Mr. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u42	Yes, very short. I wanted to intervene, above all, to clarify one thing and to say other things. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs López de Ocariz, because the truth is that she makes us spend some unpayable time, the anecdotes of her farm have been very good. Two. To say that everything I have said about hunting – which you say we have not talked about fishing – seems perfectly applicable to fishing as well, I want to say that it is not a question of one specific activity or another, it is not a question of stigmatising anything. You have come to talk about hunting, I have said what our group understands, what is the positive part of hunting and the negative part of hunting, or, rather than hunting, certain behaviors of certain hunters, that that is applicable to fishing, with which there are also problems of furtivism, problem of introduction of alloctone species, etc. There's no problem there. And then, one last question, which I do think is important, on the subject of the possible problems that hunting may be generating with regard to the overabundance of wild boars. That is, by the behavior of the animal itself, of the herd itself, we all know that the older female is the one that reproduces with the wild boars. Then, if after beatings, or after waiting, or after whatever, that piece is shot down, there is a tendency for all females in the herd who are more than a year old to begin their reproductive cycle. So, that seems to be generating a counterproductive effect. That is to say, that hunting, when subjected to stress to the herds, because, obviously, even though around his house or his people they walk calmly, they are subjected to stress when they are shot, because, in the end, it may be causing that, without more. We, of course, do not intend to pontify with this subject and, as we have said, we leave it in the hands of the technical and expert tables. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u43	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists? Mr Price mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u44	Good morning again. I'm going to try to be brief and calm, because my psychologist has told me that every time I face Professor Becerra I get a lot of tension and my liver gets... So, you asked me to make self-containment efforts. First, I'm going to quote you the fake news fake news Fake news Next: There are many hunting crimes that the parliament does not deal with. They took him to the D.A. and dismissed the case. Did you say that? No, no, Okay. Well, that brought him to the DA's office by a forest agent, and the judge dismissed him. Tell me everything. A fake news Third: They bring wild boars (sic The aphanomycosis of the native crab was also brought by fishermen? Or what's this like? Okay. Did they bring you a bet? They brought it, I don't know where they would bring it, in the noses, because they would have gone fishing somewhere else, but they didn't bring it. Let's see if we can take it off... See, my shrink told me to stay calm. I'm gonna be calm. Okay. And then you tell me that I said that nature left itself, that we have to put order... Of course I did. Have you ever read in your life any ecology book, even a summary, a quote from Margalef, a little quote? Well, you'll find that what I said is not an invention of a smart, smart guy like me. No, no, I'm a copier. But copier of smart people. Look, nature works left to itself, logically. And some living beings control each other and that generates population controls, and the human being is one more species, that controls it with many systems: shotguns, putting fences and also with laws and orders of veto. That's your traffic-ordering system. And we also live in a natural world where Homo sapiens And they are wide and eat the sheep, they also destroy the potatoes, and also the owl eats mice, because so is the system. And lions eat mice. And the mouse can't make a restraining order to send his own to hunt lions, can't do it. And we do. That's a difference, subtle, but it's a difference. So it's pure ecology what we do, it's pure ecology. Read the book Ecology or Between Biodiversity and Magic fake news And I also said one thing, which perhaps he did not understand, I said, the man began as a hunter, Homo sapiens sapiens That's what I said.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the popular Basque Group, the Basque Socialists, the EH and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u46	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Grow up the other proposal as the parliamentary teams made, about the growth of the show and Play Act. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mr. Estarrona, representative of the EH Collect team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u47	Okay. For I am still thinking whether to withdraw the initiative and the compromise amendment that we had tabled at this time, to see whether we have reached an agreement to limit the plenary sessions of this Parliament to 12 a year, given the spectacle of the previous point, although we are very grateful for the tone in which it has been carried out, because it makes us spend some time. But it is true that the subject that we are now bringing up here is much more serious and we have moved from a previous subject, which is that of the hunting of wild boars and animals, to a random and unusual hunting of artists, from what can be the most important link of the cultural ecosystem, which is the basic culture. Thank you, Mr. Congressman, for giving us your word and a good day to all. Good morning, Mr. Zupiria, and welcome, all musicians, artists, creators and culturers. The welcome again, though the last time we expect you to be here, is because it will mean that the worry and the problem that should not exist will be solved. Because we've said from the beginning that the problem has been created where there wasn't a problem. You know, it's just a problem when there's no problem. And I don't know whether that's negligent or not, but we can clearly see that it's been a wrong decision, because it's a wrong measure, and we think, if we want it, it's very easy to correct it, and that's what we've come to do with the proposal we've brought to-day. To say this, I shall begin to say, that we see the necessary rule of developing the Shows and the Act of the Play; and that which has been developed by this decree. And in general, with a great deal of the sizes they receive, most of them agree, I dare say. On the whole, public establishments, and open places, establish what condition and duty they require, with regard to the present reality. Hence, as far as classification is concerned, a more polybal and flexible classification is established, as has been said, in accordance with the different facts of the present day. It also gives him a greater legal security, by adapting himself to the principles of the new law, because the law itself required a treatment of rule, and in this way the legal arrangement is completed, and, of course, not only because he defines the measures for the rights of persons who have the security, the aphor, some disabilities, the share of volunteers, the compra-vent of the volunteers, the return of money, and the inspection of others. So we're not against regulating things because we think that if we want a cohesion of society, the rules for cooperation are necessary. We, most of us, are culturers, we're musicians, we're pubers, but we're neighbors too. I'd say more: We're neighbors before anything else. And therefore we understand, and agree, as I have said, to give answers and satisfaction to different differences in which there may be a conflict of interest. But the second point of article 105 doesn't answer at all. It does not encourage cohesion and co-existence, for one of the two sides is greatly damaged by this quantum measure, which may have very bad consequences for its basic culture. Serious consequences for the most basic link of the cultural ecosystem. The most necessary, the basis of it. It would not be possible to understand the progression of major festivals without protecting a local scene that guarantees a continuity circuit that begins with small-format spaces. Instead of measures such as this decree, what is needed are shared strategies, resources and normative measures that recognize its relevance, guarantee its development, encouraging and giving space in the sector to hundreds of musicians and artists who each year come out of creative spaces, local music schools and high schools of design, theatre, music, etc. Resources and policy measures that end with legal insecurity, yes, and at the same time with the precariousness shared by rooms, bars and small spaces. An essential sociocultural lung of that scene. Resources and measures that end the precariousness of artists. And in this sense the observation of Euskal Acultura 2016 in the year of Euska Autonomy in the Eregical World is very visible in the analysis and study of the culture of the Essunia, of the job and labour trade, and in that study, the prevarication of the sector. The precariousness of the sector and, more specifically, of that part of the sector to which I am referring is very evident. If we look at a series of graphs collected in the study to which I referred, in 2015 and 2016, the number of companies and jobs in the cultural field, according to the main economic activity: 50% of them correspond to activities of artistic creation and shows, together with the manufacture of supports, apparatuses of image and sound and musical instruments, necessary means to carry out this type of activity. Below are other activities in the cultural sector, such as graphic arts, library activities, photography, cultural education or even publishing books and publications. If we take into account the temporality of contracts and occupations in the cultural sector for a duration – the study covers a period of time between 2013 and 2017 – it is noteworthy that 68% of such contracts have a duration of one day or less. And between two and seven days, another 16%. In other words, 80% of new cultural contracts in this sector last less than a week. And, in addition, they attend to a social extract that is that of youth, since the 55 per cent of new registered contracts were made to children under 34 years of age. In the city of Vigo, Galicia, they've suffered this measure. They've established it a few years ago, and it's already evaluation, and it's very negative of every point of view. And now they're investigating the situation. Of course, the starting point is even worse now, compared to the time when this measure was established. And in Barcelona, on the other hand, they're heading in the opposite direction. We've talked to the various council council members of Barcelona, and they've given us their proposal to change the system, Proposta de modificio de lhuctari de les activetititats i dels bligens de plublicia concurentia, per incorporar "Espais de Cultura Viva." In Barcelona they have just created a new category called "Espais de Cultura viva." This category is the result of a three-year study made by the Cultura Institute of Barcelona. And they started work in just one of the engulmatic suburbs of the city, which you may perhaps know, Heliogbal, who is in the Gracia neighbourhood, when the police were nearly shut up, the guards, the fines imposed on them. Now, these people, Esais de Cultura Viva, are going to armor all those drawing rooms which are engaged in direct culture. At ten o'clock, these drawing-rooms which have been at the corners of the law have taken a step to protect it for once. Why? A little of the same reflection which I have spoken before: for they understand that these are the spaces which weave the foundations of culture. In the hope of this new category, musicians, bars, culture associations, art galleries, and other spaces have long been expected. And it is established that at least forty performances, or performances, to be thus named, must be so in the year. So in the opposite direction. So Vigo, one way, Barcelona. And I hope you don't have to pass through Vigo to Barcelona, because we think it would be ridiculous. However, we do not say that we ought to do so, that we ought to do the same in Barcelona, but that there is a pattern to examine it, a formula. But at the second point of the middle, as we have already stated, we believe, from this state which we have produced, that, as we take advantage of it, with guests, culture-makers, artists, and culturers, beyond sharing and adapting the rules to the development of the law of the show and of the play, we may start a thought of how these circuits can be strengthened. In the strategic plans for several institutions, these locals, spaces, and circuits are taken into account, and they give their importance to these strategic plans. And when Kultur clicks are on the porch, for example, in the culture directory of the New Year, when you look at the programming and consult in the professional resources directory, the locals appear, and the show shows that they are programmed in them, and they get excited in a way and, too, they get subsidies from people like that, often to the creative and culturer who spend their time in such a space. Isn't this an abnormal situation? While we are discussing this now and here, the delegates of the eunuchs are assembled. And they're probably talking about it in parallel mode. We'll see what they decide. I think Mr. Zupiria's common sense has come to him this week, because when I asked you the other day in the pluneno, I noticed that you were a little in an uncomfortable situation, defending what could not be defended from a culture view. Yes, you certainly notice something uncomfortable, Mr Zupiria, defending something complicated to defend from a cultural point of view. And it is that yesterday, Mr. Zupiria, you yourself said in a radio interview that the proposal that it was only 12 concerts a year was from Eudel, and that, therefore, it is Eudel who should choose to eliminate that amount, or propose another, or even not propose any. You gave these three formulae as to the amount of action that could be taken in this type of premises. Or as a second option, even you gave a second option that was that Eudel set a flexibility criterion for its application and left the regulation of these spaces, to the local entities, in the hands of each municipality. So we really appreciate the chief physician's will, because he's not the type of person who created this situation, but if you have a responsibility now, you have a key or at least a key to solve this situation, and you have to solve it. And, as I said at first, we think it's easy. On the one hand, it's good to start a reflection with the Eudel, along with the Culturists, along with the artists, along with the little hosts. That's all right, but soon we think, if we don't quit the 105s that this rule takes. the second point of the article, the state of independence which this will produce, and especially the meaning which lies behind it, namely, that a system of culture does not oppose it, and in a government it is probable that it is possible to do so in a state of government. This decree has not yet been established, this regulation has not yet been established, but it is probably possible to make a mistake, it may probably be demanded in the official manner that this second point of article, which is to be abandoned. And then let us sit and sit down, as I have said before, to draw positive things out of this problem, and let us begin a discussion whether these locals, those locals, what kind of presence and what function they can fulfill in the system of culture. And therefore, as we have said, because it is a very injurious measure, what we require in the present day is to leave the whole decree, not the rule, but only this point and that point of the article which prescribes this limitation, the second point. For this is not a matter of number, you want to condemn to the red winter certain small rooms and taverns and our creators on the slope, and this is what you want to do in this global context, which is a thousandgrocer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u49	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today it is up to us to debate about an initiative that presents EH Bildu on the regulation and development of the Act on Shows and Recreational Activities and, more specifically, on the decree issued by the Basque Government that aims to limit and reduce cultural activities in small-format bars and locals. A decree that, obviously, will affect equally the different municipalities, neighborhoods and cities in Euskadi. There is a large part of the hospitality sector and cultural agents, such as artists, creative and culture-loving, who are going to suffer an unprecedented cut, since they are going to be limited to twelve events a year, which means one performance per month per concert venue, exhibitions, DJ sessions, betsolaris, choirs, musical performances, monologues, theatrical improvisations, poetic recitals and many other artistic expressions. A measure that makes us all lose. Culture is the set of practices, expressions, languages and ideas that links us to a way of understanding society and the world. A set of distinctive features and signs of identity that allow us to recognize and share with others a way of living and thinking. Through culture, people express themselves, become aware of themselves, recognize themselves as an unfinished project, question themselves, seek new meanings and create works that transcend them. Therefore, culture, so understood, has an important political dimension of community building and coexistence, often invisible, but that it is essential to take into account if we are to push for social change. And from the institutions it is up to us to defend it, and to facilitate and guarantee its access to all citizens. Mr Estarrona has already explained this, where he did not exist, the Basque Government has created a problem, and, just a few weeks after the new legislation was known, there are many creative people, promoters and consumers of culture who oppose this limitation, the same people who have organized themselves and are calling for mobilizations from the Arteak Ireki platform, which is now accompanying us. This decree is based on a deep inability of the Department of Culture to understand that basic culture, which creates, produces and distributes people and agents on the local scale, is the key and strategic element to take care of in a cultural policy worthy of such a name. What happens is that the cultural policy of the Basque Government only understands commercial criteria, big events to which to draw political performance, and leaves aside – and this is a historical forgotten – those who need support and accompaniment, such as the economy of small business, tourism, life in the neighbourhoods, the holidays of our peoples and, above all, culture, our culture, which will be reached directly by this nonsense, if we do not do something to avoid it. But Elkarrekin Podemos would like to go further, and, apart from the concrete, to eliminate the prohibition, the background of this debate is the reflection on the cultural model, and, in relation to it, on the urban model and the role of culture; in short, the model of city and society to which we aspire. From Elkarrekin We believe that a new cultural model is necessary, which defends the right to culture as one of our fundamental rights, a basic right that is mainly concrete in the right of access, of universal access to the culture of all citizens, with an active involvement role, whether as a public or as cultural creators. An access understood as the possibility of formation, creation, use and cultural enjoyment, overcoming all kinds of barriers, both real and symbolic, and distributed throughout the territory; a culture understood as a public service, where the offer is diversified throughout a network of cultural centers, libraries and independent spaces of all kinds, as well as in the public space, as the main place for the development of the community's living culture, reversing the trend of culture as a mercantilized and spectacular product for consumption, leisure and tourism of the great museum and the macro-event that is being imposed in Euskadi. That is why we need to highlight local-scale cultural circuits, protect them and promote them as essential in any municipality of Euskadi. As has been shown throughout history, one cannot live from macro-events and entertainment culture. In the history of culture in Euskadi, there are dozens of examples that we could set to illustrate how many musical groups, theatres and artists, in general, began their walk in bars, alternative locations – let's remember the gastetxes – and in popular spaces, in general. What would have happened to all of them with this decree? You simply would not have had any chance, which is what you want to do now, to deprive our creators of the opportunity to make culture. Not only do they not guarantee them a place in the great cultural stages, but now they want to expel them from those spaces that they have conquered by right. I myself invested many hours learning and enjoying in the small cultural circuits in Gasteiz, attending the cultural Tuesdays of the Parral, concerts and plays, the poetry sessions recited or played in the Estitxu, the improvisation nights and monologues in the Molly Malone or in bars in Salburua and Zabalgana. We have to fight and build alternatives and spaces against those who want us idiots, narcotized in front of the screens and sitting on our couches. Culture is always a tool of dissent and subversion in the face of the prevailing powers, a way of sharing, of understanding other realities and of being free, in short. That is why we have signed a compromise amendment, where we have added two important points to the elimination of the ban and the decree, which we believe to be Elkarrekin Podemos. One of them talks about a consensual decision on the criteria laid down by volunteering, training and the conditions to be met by the different categories of premises and premises within six months, adapting the regulations for the development of the Act on Shows and Recreation, together with all agents, both Eudel, hoteliers, cultural agents themselves, artists, creative and culture-friendly, as well as – and this also seems to us important – the adaptation and updating of the same regulations to the gender perspective, in order to promote measures that promote and enhance the work done by women creators. From Elkarrekin We want to propose another cultural model for Euskadi, that puts culture at the centre of life, a model less paternalistic and mercantilized, and more feminist and citizen; a model that feeds on the substrate of what we are, to project us into what we would like to be; a model that cultivates cultural practices in all areas, from the professional to the amateur, and that serves to stimulate creativity and experimentation, develop critical thinking and promote an emancipatory experience and personal and collective dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u51	President, ladies and gentlemen. We share general and global concepts about the conception of culture as a vertebral element of civilization, as a vertebral element of progress. The performing arts, in addition to being part of that culture, are also an expression of creativity and is a creativity that then has an intimate, direct relationship with the economy, with leisure, with celebrations, with customs, with roots, with history... Finally, when we talk about culture and when we talk about the manifestations of culture itself, such as the performing arts, such as theatre, such as dance, such as music, such as poetry, we are obviously talking about a universal and irrefutable heritage, which I believe we all appreciate, value, protect, take care of beyond conflicts or specific situations such as the one we can be dealing with today in this plenary. I would like to remind you, before setting out the political position that we are going to have in this respect, that, in honor of the truth and for each one to assume the share of responsibility that is incumbent upon him, the regulation that was adopted by decree, which has not yet entered into force, which has an extended period to be reviewed and which derives from the Act itself, is a regulation that has been shared with the municipalities that are under Eudel's organization. That is to say, we are not talking about a regulation that has occurred to a councilwoman or a government and that has been dealt with between day and night, adopted quickly and ultimately generating these expectations that it is now generating, but it is a regulation that, obviously, as everyone had a philosophy, a thought, not only addressed the number of shows to be held, but also many other issues of fundamental importance for some of the responsibilities of the government in serving citizens by administering politics, such as security, sanity, soundproofing, coexistence with neighbours, with citizenship. Finally, all these elements, that is, that we are talking about a regulation that tried to deal with many things, including the number of shows. On this, there was an important time for the municipalities to pronounce themselves; I think it was many people who had the option to see and value this, and, well, finally, for the reasons that each one would have to explain, the number of shows was not questioned. And this is what finally appeared in the regulation. Later on, it has been raised, mainly from those who are protagonists in the performing arts, it has been called into question and, from there, a lively, open debate has been generated, in which more actors from society itself already participate and among them the political groups in this Parliament. And, well, it seems to me that one of the benefits of politics is to manage it, not only on the basis of those who have the responsibility to make the policy, because we have been elected, but also of society as a whole, to the extent that it affects them and that they also have to be involved in those policies that come out of here. Therefore, it does not matter so much the procedure of how this discussion has been generated, but what matters is whether we have margins, whether we have possibilities and whether we are willing to address it, for now in a broader way, probably seeing more interests and profiles on the aspect, and trying to seek a broad understanding, a broad consensus, a broad participation. In that will is the Government, in that will are the parliamentary groups, in that will, of course, is the socialist parliamentary group. It is reasonable to review it; it is reasonable, because when the number of shows to be held arises, there are many experiences, here some other places have been cited and, therefore, let us say that it is not an element of principles that are so many shows, that a number is regulated or that none is regulated. It is not a question of principles, it is a question of harmony between the different agents of society and of seeking that harmony, as I said before, with all the factors that influence a spectacle and that are several, in addition to that of the artists themselves and the creativity that the artists themselves bring. Well, we're working on that review. We would even have liked to have done it in a more unitary way, because we are not, I think, so diverging in the background, we are rather in the form. We have spoken, we have exchanged intentions on the possibility of assessing deadlines, inter alia, because, as I said earlier, it is still months and months before this regulation is put into effect. And there was a possibility of a tour. We have discussed the possibility of reflecting on the review or on the immediate cessation of something that has not been put into operation. Well, I think we've asked for some semantic rather than substantive considerations, because basically I think there's a will, which here has been recognized. Also in some parliamentary intervention of the Councillor for Culture himself, of recent demonstrations and, of course, of the Councillor for the Interior, he also has the same will, the same interest, the same responsibility to deal with this matter in a unitary way, involving once again the municipalities, which have much to say and which, I would say, I would dare say that they will have to say it and in public, because here there is a field work in which it is spoken in private, but then, at the time of truth, when disputes arise, some, which in private manifest problems, difficulties and beatings, then in public do not manifest them. Therefore, the municipalities will also have to decide and will have to do so in public what their interpretation is of the reconciliation of all the interests that are around the shows and what the shows entail. So it seems right that the Government should be given that place to review the regulations, that the municipalities should be made, and that the social actors involved in this activity should also be involved, and that it is not only the creative agents, but also the economic agents, who, through their establishments, put the stage in order to be able to do those shows. I therefore believe that there is a broad consensus on the substance of the matter. This leads us, for what I have said, not to have been able to agree on a wording of the compromise amendment, to establish a position of abstention, which is a position of abstention towards what has been drafted in some way, but not towards the substance of the matter, which is that we must review what has generated the controversy and take the opportunity to seek the greatest consensus and the most comfortable of all those who work, live, work around the shows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u52	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u53	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature and ladies, good noon to all. Today, as you know, we have a discussion of a proposition which, as described by the Basque People, is given by the House of Sales, in this case about the Shows, and the Rule of the Companions of the Game; and in this discussion, although in the full-controlal meeting of the entire control, we may ask the Chief of Zupiria, and in the course of this week there must be a set of appearances at the Committee of the Cultura among the Openers, we believe that certain matters ought to be well explained and understood, not only for ourselves, but also for all who hear them. And to begin with, we have to say that it is never for our team, and so we clearly say that regulating a complex situation will never be a problem. To this end, Act No. 10/2015 of 23 December 2015 on Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Euskadi was enacted, a law which, among its precepts, will recall that it sought to strike a balance between that principle of freedom and that other principle of security and coexistence and to make them match in the best possible way. And, among other aspects that were touched upon in this law, were those of improving the coordination between the different institutional levels, especially considering that the municipalities are surely the first-hand institution for citizens in carrying out, organizing or hosting these kinds of events. In any case, it was already stated in the law itself that a regulatory development would subsequently be needed, which is the one that comes to us today, approved on February 5, 2019, this first Basque regulation of public performances and recreational activities of Euskadi. But in this respect we must remember that the decree arises from a care which Eudel himself had sent to the Government, and that it does it with one principal object, simply to regulate several points which were not determined in the field of spectacles, and which had not been solved. In short, even if the decree is complex, it must be admitted that it has 125 articles, which we believe that the people, the public, the public, the public, and the public prosecutors, and the municipal authorities, are in a state of constant concern. And this I mean because it seems to me that sometimes and sometimes to some people, during the whole of this process, no one has ever participated in anything but a caprice of security or government, and we must admit that it was not so. In the course of this query various institutions, various agents, so many groups, and above all so many persons, made proposals, and many of them were introduced into the last version of the text. Participation is one of the topics that has come up on the table around the adoption of this decree, who has participated, how much, how, why has not any kind of participation been taken into account... And here I think we need to make it clear that, although the decree was approved in February 2019, the process is long, the process comes from 2017, from the beginning of 2017, when this public consultation procedure for the elaboration of the decree itself is opened. And then, about half a year later, that first text of the decree is taken to public display. It is at this point that any person can make contributions, any natural or legal person can make allegations, allegations that would certainly be answered individually, as required by the procedure in these cases, and that many of them would give rise to a reflection on the different points contained in the regulation, and a posteriori, why not, bring an amendment to the final text. In any case, we believe that the regulation adopted by the Governing Council last February did so with a number of objectives, which we believe today must be put on the table, because from certain sectors this ultra-regulatory regulation has been blocked, I think it was the expression used, while for us, for Euzko Abertzaleak are all aspects that regulate fundamental in the development and reception of public shows and recreational activities; and they all needed regulation like that which has been done. All in order to offer greater legal certainty in the application of Law 10/2015 itself, not only for the institutions, not only for the municipalities, but also for organizers, also for hoteliers, for anyone who wants to organize a public activity or a recreational activity in this regard. It also emphasized this regulation in such a vulnerable group as is that of underage persons, it also tried to improve coordination with municipalities in the interest of being the first gateway for the citizen who wants to organize such an event. And we believe that all of them are important, and all of them are essential for the proper organization of these kinds of activities. Therefore, we cannot share this ultra-regulatory characterization. Yet, as I have said, we regard them as indispensable when we speak of show and activities. We believe that this regulation, this regulation, was necessary, in answer to the problems we meet daily, to the casuistics or casuistics which we meet every day. And we think we have to look at this regulation as a tool. And surely we who work in councils know better than anyone, how difficult it is to make decisions sometimes, unless you have a certain regulation, laws, or decrees on the table, and if that doesn't help you, make decisions. We think it is essential in this case to have a regulation of this kind, and sometimes we ask ourselves where the limit is. How should we respond to the neighbors' smokes? When we're talking about self-interests and security issues, if anything happens, who's to blame? The Vigo case has been mentioned, I think, and that's where we know what happened after giving you permission. Nevertheless, we must admit that we believe it and that we see with good-will from the Security Department in order to find a new rule with the Eudeles. We think it is essential, and we believe that we must act in this case with elasticity, we think that peace is necessary in such cases, and above all things must be understood in its universality. Finally, we signed it to the Socialist team, and we put a point in it, but we insisted on three ideas. First, to initiate with Eudel this process of reflection on the regulation of the development of Law 10/2015, in order to focus on this article 105 that so many interpretations has aroused and tries to provoke a reflection on it that can give them answers. All this is trying to reconcile the interests of three key groups in this case, such as business, social and institutional actors. The three of them are the subject of this regulation. And finally, to strike a balance, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, in this case, between the promotion of culture, the arts and music, and of course, the right to neighborly rest. Let us therefore leave to work, and see what consequences are derived from these assemblies, what conclusions are drawn, and what possibilities are to improve the situation. I repeat, respecting the rights of all, and conciliating them, to act with suppleness, and to understand all aspects. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction is Mr. Sémper's word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u55	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Eguerdi on guztioi. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for coming to this debate. I have listened with great interest to the arguments that have been made by both parties supporting the Government and the opposition, and I will try, perhaps, through this intervention, to make some argument, I do not know if it is different, but it is complementary to what you have used, to be more or less concrete – if I may say so – in which the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party come to say that the regulation is great, that the whole world has participated in this regulation and that the councilwoman was passing by and her only responsibility has been to approve it. And, well, as it has caused some discomfort – some of you have used this expression as well – for it should be reviewed. And the opposition parties, in this case EH Bildu and Podemos, they are decorating it from another series of arguments already known, and here everyone seems to come to launch their speech. But at the end of what we're talking about is something much easier to understand and much easier to answer. You'll remember a song from Eskorbuto, the one that said, "A lot of police, little fun. A mistake, a mistake. A lot of police, little fun. Repression, repression." Well, sometimes – well, I'm glad you remember Eskorbuto and this song with excitement – what happens is that sometimes the police take the bad name and the mistake and the repression – understand repression, counselor, of course, that I'm from the People's Party – understand repression with quotes, because it's the one that starts many times from the laws that are passed in Chambers like this, from the laws that are passed, from the regulations that are passed by governments as to which you belong. And in the end the police – in this case the Ertzaintza or the Municipal Police of the village or of the city that is of Euskadi – will have to go to comply with a repressive error in this case, counselor, approved by you and your government through this regulation –deeply wrong and I am convinced that it will not go forward – because some politician came up with the brilliant idea of committing this misconception. There is an old phrase of liberal cut but also of foral origin, which comes to say that laws, rules, the best laws and rules, if possible, should be few, brief and clear. In other words, let us try that the public authorities – and in this case the politicians, those responsible for passing the laws – handle as little as possible the citizens' initiative, the freedom and in this case something, the freedom and the citizens' initiative that must flow with absolute normality and naturality, especially in a space such as the cultural sphere. It is true that complex societies – complex societies are usually basically modern ones and we are a complex society by modern as well – must be able to articulate the rules in order to allow a normalized coexistence. Some like to go on foot, others like to go on public transport, others like to go by car, and the municipalities, the General Directorate of Traffic, the municipalities, the Basque Government as they implement rules to make this coexistence possible, that different way of understanding the cities. Town halls pass ordinances, governments also in this case development laws and regulations, to allow, for example, normality and normality and better coexistence between those who want rest and those who want to enjoy, for example, night entertainment or other hours. The problem is not regulation itself, but misregulation. When a government – in this case the Basque government – approves a decree to develop a law, which is harmful, has neither feet nor heads and which affects and fundamentally pays attention to two aspects: the economy and culture... And this is what I want to talk to you about today, and that is why I want to support our support for the non-law proposition of EH Bildu and Podemos. Our support without nuances, because, listen, look, everyone knows how far we are from the People's Party, Bildu and Podemos, but if Bildu and Podemos come here and consider the law of gravity, I will have to approve it. Well, today what comes to us to submit Podemos and Bildu a kind of law of gravity in the form of a non-law proposition. Hey, I don't have a hunch to do, but applaud your initiative and support it and try to make some argument beyond the known. But, as I told you, in this quest for balance it is worth remembering something that is fundamental: when a person, when a woman, when a group with whom she is, decides to start a business and decides to open a local – in this case, a hotel – then, listen, it is also worth remembering what challenges she faces. For you have to buy a place or you have to rent it, you have to meet a series of administrative requirements imposed on you by the city council, a series of corrective measures, you have to pay taxes, you have to pay fees, you have to assume, through an economic effort more than obvious, a challenge that is also plagued by uncertainties, because customs and customs are changing, because leisure is also consumed in another way. Because the street is no longer a space and the locals are no longer a space where leisure and other offers are consumed, and there are other offers and there are other "threats" – between quotes – for these businesses, and we should understand and understand the immense difficulty, the almost heroic challenge that today involves opening up a hospitality business, a cafeteria, a bar or a night business in our society; it is still very complicated, increasingly complicated. And it turns out that there are people who, in order for that business to go better – and I am now talking exclusively about the economic side – decide to bring something added, value added to your business. He decides to bring added value to his business so that people go, logically, and consume, and, moreover, if it is to be possible, to have fun and come back, and that it is a place of encounter, that it is a place where people can socialize, can find themselves, can have a good time, that is no sin. And for this we introduce rules, the municipalities introduce rules so that it is compatible with the rest of those who want to live in another way. But the question is, who did you think was a good idea? I mean, at what time, in what office, in what meeting, counselor, you seemed a good idea to ban, for example, that every Thursday in a bar in Vitoria, San Sebastian or Bilbao or any town in Euskadi, someone cannot, for example, have a boy or a girl with a guitar playing some songs. Who did you think was a good idea? What time? Or someone, I don't know, to a storytelling – I'm going to do something that seems nicer to you – or a monologue, or a poetry recital, listen, let's focus on the situation. We are talking about a decree that forbids a hosteler who can have every Thursday or every Tuesday or every day a boy with a guitar or a group or a guy or a chick telling stories or making monologues. And someone thinks this is a good idea. And that's why we're here today, we're not here for any other reason. We are here because there are a few that seem to us an aberration and this is the economic part. But then there is the cultural part, which is as much or more important than economics, as much or more important than that which leads someone to make an investment effort and to play their prestige, their heritage, and to undertake a business project, which, by the way, nourishes the municipal arches with the taxes they pay. I'm just that if I was mayor, I'd be very interested in having all the hoteliers do very well, because they're going to be able to continue paying taxes, because they're going to bring my city to life, but let's talk about culture. This attempt, let us see, in other words, culture in the end is clear that it needs a public impulse, especially certain cultural expressions, and here are the municipalities, the parliaments, the Basque Government itself, sometimes successfully, others with less success, but there is will, I do not deny it, Mr Councilman, in this case, a will to expand, to allow for normalised development and, if possible, very strong culture in our land. And it is important that the public authorities assume this as a primary responsibility. But there are other expressions, and there is another way to understand it too, that you leave the official circuit, that you don't need the official circuit, that you need the official circuit not to touch your nose, that you need the public authorities, instead of permanently putting sticks on the wheels, to allow it to flow freely and normally. And this is what we are talking about, about that will that some of you, Madam Counsellor, have, in this case, to control everything, to regulate everything, so that this type of expression does not flow normally and naturally, and then there is no more reflection. We will support the initiative of EH Bildu and Podemos, not to open a process of reflection and to sit again, no, no, for this to stop, for this purpose to disappear, to erase it; to regulate other aspects through the regulation, which need to be regulated, but that this does not materialize. I think it's as simple as that. We do not prohibit anyone who sets up a business from giving it another air and from making it possible through introducing, in this case, concerts, music, performances of all kinds in its place, and we do not also prohibit or do not control or try to manipulate the normalized and natural development of cultural expressions, as in this case, which seems to be the one that scares them the most, the musical. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In the turn of the answers, EH Collect Group, Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u57	Thank you, Mrs. President. Again. Berriro ere, today an unexpected thing has happened and is that the representative of the People's Party has realized that EH Bildu also lacks common sense... That is not, quite the opposite, because it has common sense and acts with all common sense. [[Laughter]] I wanted to say that perhaps his boss in Madrid, Mr Casado, does not know, because then he will also go into spasms himself. However, I am grateful for your support, Mr Semper, for the tone of the debate as well and for your position so firm in relation to what this regulation means by decree which the Basque Government has somehow published and which will come into force, as Mr Prieto said, within a month, and there is scope. There is scope, said Mr Prieto, therefore, let us focus on what we are dealing with and worry about what it is, let us see how in some way we can minimize the impact that it has and that we may lose importance to what it has generated, what has been the cause that has somehow generated this stir, let us call it that. But I think it does matter, because at the bottom of the question is also the concept and a way of understanding the culture itself – on the one hand – and the way of understanding the culture that this Executive has. But it is also true – and I do this in the way of criticism to all political parties, political coalitions and, therefore, in the way of self-criticism – that it is the space that culture occupies in our political agendas, because in speeches we always make very pompous speeches, saying the importance of culture as a cohesive element of society, from coexistence, etcetera, such, but then this is not reflected in the resources that are allocated to this one to reverse, as I mentioned in the first round of words, this precarious situation that is experienced in the sector. The representative of the Basque Nationalist Party said that there is a conflict of interest here and that they were advocating for regulation – I don't know if this is hypernormativization or I don't know what you have called it, Mr Alvarez – but it is true that we believe that this principle of freedom and coexistence is not being complied with, because as a coexistence I understand that the different parties, in some way, feel comfortable in the situation that a regulation or a normal one seeks to regulate. Therefore, as I said before, one of the parties here is very negatively affected and, therefore, we believe that this does not help at all in living together, because, we reiterate, we share many of the issues that are covered in that regulation, many of them, but the provision in Rule 105.2 makes no sense at all. If we moved it to, for example, the terraces of bars, which also generate problems of coexistence between citizens, of course, you can regulate the occupation of roads, you can regulate the accesses, you can regulate the types of furniture, which are regulated by municipal regulations, you can regulate even the timetable, because it is true that they generate noise also in front of the neighbors who live in the higher houses. But would it make regular sense, hey, how this generates... we've regulated all this, but let's say no, what terraces can only be set 60 days a year? Or Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays are, but Tuesdays and Thursdays are not. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make any sense, as Mr Semper said, regular 12, maximum two a month. Why? If the other conditions are met and the minimum requirements for such cultural activities are met. Today, a very clear mandate will be adopted for this Government, a mandate that requires that rule 105.2 of the rules of procedure be left invalid. That mandate will be approved, and then, as we have said, the situation created for all of us can be exploited even further, certainly from the Department of Culture and from a cultural point of view, not from the Department of Security. In this sense, I would like to congratulate both the arts and the founders of the art, the musicians, the culturers, and the cultural consumers, for what will be agreed to this day is because you have moved, and we think that we must put that into value. That is to say, when the people are organized, when they move, when you've been in the journals, journals, journals, newspapers, and such results are achieved, and I think that's one thing to congratulate them all today. Ez Dok Amairu drew the dictatorship, SA and many others cast out the censorship. Remove this limitation that lacks sanity and do not try to put doors to culture; open the doors, otherwise, ateak ireki, arteak ireki, kulturaren kontrako erasorik ez. Congratulations and thank you. (Applause) Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Podemos, Mrs. García must not speak. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours. He mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u58	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, what I have spoken of is what has been said from certain sectors: this ruler Mr Semper, of course, I had seen quite a lot in this Parliament in the short time I have had, but a member of the PP of 155, of the PP of the Mordaza Law, being adept at the cultural freedoms of Euskadi, was as little as I needed to see. I wonder if you have devoted just one minute to reading the Rules of Procedure which are now before us. I wonder if you have devoted just one minute to reviewing the three points that you are going to adopt today with your vote in favour. The first of them talks about giving effect to the prohibition of 12 concerts or events in bars that do not have a license to perform them. You know that this is an amendment to the regulation and that in addition this regulation, as I said in my first speech, has brought a procedure, a long process of drafting, in which different actors have taken part: social agents, cultural agents, business agents. This is directly linked to the second point that you are going to vote in favour, I insist, of asking Eudel to review this decree, along with hospitality artists. I remind you, and I said this in my first speech, I do not know if perhaps you have been overlooked, that since 2017 the procedures of public consultation, public exhibition have been started, worked with Eudel, worked with artists, worked with hoteliers, worked with business agents, worked with the Department of Culture itself, the Department of Security itself has held different coordination meetings between different departments, so we understand that this second point would already be carried out. And finally – I forgot to bring it down, I left it up there – the third of the points talks about the gender perspective. In June 2016, Emakunde already issued a report analysing what is regulation from a gender perspective, therefore, a third point that I insist, with his vote in favour, I remind him that it is already done. In any case, we too will opt for abstention, although we have to spell out the points we mentioned in our first speech. We believe that, from the point of view of responsibility, this decree should be revised and we believe that this review process is already under way together with Eudel, together with the views of the different municipalities, and at this point it should be remembered that in Eudel there are represented municipalities of absolutely all colors, and we should also take into account what they all think and what is the point of view of many of them. Mr Semper, I also believe that – I also do not have too much experience – but at the municipal level a regulation like the one that comes to debate today is always necessary, we believe that, of course, to make decisions it will always help to have such a regulation and, well, if you ever fall back on some local administration, I wish you the best of the right decisions, because, of course, you will need it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u61	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, in just correspondence to the interest of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party on this humble parliamentarian. It is not a question, believe me, I do not think it is a question of experience, experience like all aspects of life also helps for politics; it is a question of common sense. You've spent a lot of time screwing around, let me tell you that half the time you've been screwing around, pulling it out, and it's settled. Madam Councilwoman, I would like to close this speech by making a request to you and to the Councilman for Culture. Look, let's change, let's change, let's understand what's going on here, let's understand what's going on on on the street, let's understand what the majority claim is, that not by majority is correct, but in this case the two circumstances have been given, it's majority and it's correct. And instead of banning, instead of coercing, instead of limiting, push. Let's push culture in a different way, the official channel, the public channel is necessary, but allow you and drive, why not, cultural expressions on the street, in bars, in cafes, where there is someone who has something to say and has a way to express themselves, who has at least not his sticks on the wheels and at least not his veto. We believe, honestly, beyond other absurd arguments that do not come to the case, that we are talking about something very serious in which the politician, I really believe, does not have room. Well, I understand that you don't like to lose votes but sometimes even the PNV can happen too. Foment it will be good for all of us. And I invite you, I allow myself the opportunity to invite you to San Sebastián to some bar with live music, and you will see that those who go there have no tail, horns or trident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting are 72 votes, 73; the supporters, 37; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; nobstations, 36.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u63	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. [[Applause]] Five point in theme list: "In the same way as the parliamentary policy of Podemos, the techniques of the Medical Department, Osamental and Investigation, and the directors of the State of Investigation. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team is Mr. Uria, representing the Podemos team to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u64	Good noon, everyone. Mrs. Tejeria, Mr. President, Conejers, Coneveras. It's a theme, the one we bring at the last hour of the morning, simple, but a worrying theme. It refers to the problems of conflicts of interest in the profession, among doctors, nursing professionals, among people who make decisions in relation to the pharmaceutical industry and other industries. It is a subject that the Basque Government has already raised, not in the area of health, but in the general sphere, being the Basque Government pioneer in the Spanish State with the adoption of the Code of Ethics on May 28, 2013. On May 28, 2013, it was approved, is the precedent that we have found, an ethical code with the following objectives: for senior officials, for members of the Government, for contingent personnel and other senior officials, autonomous entities, etc.: impartiality and objectivity in the exercise of their role, responsibility in management, transparency and open government, honesty and subjective disinterest, respect and exemplaryness. These are the objectives that the Basque Government is currently applying to its posts and leadership, since 2013. I would not have been encouraged to raise the need for this matter to be fulfilled in the health sector, it should have been extended if there had not been two particularly scandalous cases in recent months. The first case is that of Dr. Josep Baselga, famous oncologist, famous cancer specialist at the Cancer Centre in New York. He did not report that in recent years he had received millions of dollars from the pharmaceutical companies on which he had written research papers on anti-cancer drugs he proposed in his research. And the second thing that worried me was when I saw a photo two weeks ago of the Guggenheim in New York filled with patients from an opiate that had been marketed by the Sackler family, some of the funding companies of the Guggenheim, the Louvre, the British Museum. The Sackler family is one of the most important, billionaire families in the United States, more important than the Rockefeller family, which has had a problem: the reserved family of billionaire Sackler is the one who is being identified as a beneficiary of the opiate crisis, for which Trump recently declared an emergency in health. The oxycontin trade is the one that generated the highest opioid prescription in the United States. A painkiller for chronic pain, with a marketing operation that it placed between 1995, in which it was launched into the market, until 2001, profits of more than $1.6 billion. More than 60,000 people died from overdose only in 2017. In 2012, U.S. doctors prescribed 282 million prescriptions. Marketing operations in favor of this opiate were scandalous, and they reached all the doctors in the country, their research institutes. And there was an article in 1980 that only said one thing: "Opiates do not condition addiction." This article was cited another 700 times by other researchers. That's not true. It's a lie. For this article published in a scientific journal, millions and millions of opiates were sold generating deaths, dependencies, advertising and an impressive marketing campaign. Only between 2013 and 2015 several pharmaceutical companies paid $46 million to more than 68,000 doctors in advertising, marketing. It's a big deal. I would never have dared to raise this matter so that Osakidetza and the Department of Health would take good note of and raise the issue of the declaration of interest. Already in the same 80, which is the first time, in a scientific journal, the New England Journal of Medicine Reducing the financial relations of doctors with companies is urgent. More ethical relations with the pharmaceutical industry, the medical technology industry and the food industry are urgent to ensure the primacy of public interests over shareholders in large industries." Rayman asked for two things, which is why I'm here. One, let us talk more about this topic. Let this matter be made public; it is a great scandal. And two, make a careful study of the situation. So we have humbly raised some criteria for making this proposal. The conflicts of interest that are most frequently presented today and which cause public concern and notoriety in those relations with the pharmaceutical industry go further worldwide, also in Euskadi. Not always obvious. The pharmaceutical industry, in seeking to optimize the sale of its products, carries out the promotional activity of these products in such a way that it influences the decision-making of the doctor, biasing his professional judgment and putting in a background the needs of the patient. The necessary medical freedom to fulfil the primary purpose of his profession is imperceptibly threatened. Research that has been done of various types and in several countries has come to the following conclusions: receiving gifts from pharmaceutical representatives is associated with a condescending attitude towards the products promoted by them. How many friends, how many friends of mine have told me, I do receive gifts, I do go to the congress paid for by the pharmacists, but it has nothing to do with my medical practice, which I have my own criteria. How many have said so. The prescription rate for certain medicines is substantially increased after doctors visited by these representatives have accepted free medical samples. Attendance at conferences and conferences promoted by the pharmaceutical industry and conducted by leading professionals has the same effect. For all that, it is important, and I am finishing, to promote that medical students have behaviors consistent with the values that should guide professional practice. Do not accept gifts from the pharmaceutical industry or companies manufacturers of medical equipment and supplies. Avoid direct receipt of medical samples that condition the prescription. It is suggested to limit and organize the reception of visitors in hospitals and consultations of health centres. Do not apply for financing of the pharmaceutical or medical technology industry or supplies for personal purposes of any kind, etc., etc. The proposal is a simple proposal, we have tried to have a general ethical, calm line; we especially thank all the parliamentary groups for the consensus that we have reached, and in particular Mrs Larrauri for the effort she has made of consensus. The issues we raise in the amendment are that the Code of Ethics of the Basque Government applies, that our doctors, our doctors, our research professionals declare that they are free of conflicts of interest when they make a scientific article, when they go to a congress and make an exhibition, when they are in a consultation or when they buy a TAC or a linear accelerator or when they buy vaccines. Those who make decisions in the Department of Health and Osakidetza must sign a declaration that they are free from conflicts of interest with the industry. The researchers we have in Biocruces, in Biodonosti, Bioaraba, who collaborate with the private in strategies of public-private collaboration that we will talk about at another time, have to sign in their conclusions that they are free of conflicts of interest with the industry. The commission of clinical trials of Cruces, Basurto and Donostia Hospital, those who decide the types of medicines, have to sign a declaration of interest, which are free from conflicts of interest with the industry. You can't serve two masters. We especially need ethical relations with industry. I'm not saying I don't have a relationship with the industry. I am not saying no to greeting the leaders of the industries, the boards of directors, but we must tell them that they are not so ambitious in profits, in profit rates. Sometimes the capacities to set prices for the pharmaceutical industry, go beyond governments, go beyond frameworks such as the European Union. The lobbies are impressive. We humbly from Euskadi are few Basques and Basques. But we're good. We will try to organize our profession ethically where decisions are made, both in clinical practice and in investigative or teaching practice. Eskerrik asko guztioi for the consensus we have reached.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u65	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. I too must thank Mr Uria for his flexibility in this regard in reaching the agreement that we have reached and also for the fact that he has brought this initiative. I think it's interesting. At the moment, moreover, we are convulsed in Basque public health, but we must continue to work here in this Parliament for the things that magnify it, continue to improve practice, avoid distorting the system and, of course, because what you identify to some extent are dysfunctions of the system and issues, of course, within ethics, within the behaviour of employees or public officials, because they must be studied and the laws and rules must be neutralized and controlled. I think we're on it. Indeed, you wanted to address some situations in a somewhat more regulatory way. It is possible that the issue that was reflected in the spirit of the agreement that we have and, in that sense, it is clear that you, Mr Uria, have identified an issue that sometimes brings problems to public health, which can bring them. You have identified two important or serious situations. We understand that it should not be moved here as examples, but it is true that there will be situations where there is a need to improve control. It is clear that bad practice affects the provision of health care and, of course, we have to work precisely for what it said before, to improve it. We've reached an agreement. We proposed to analyse the situation in which it is and that the appropriate measures for such control be updated by the Government, for such regulation of the conflicts of interest that you spoke of in the Basque public health system, and especially in the processes of publishing articles, participation of clinical trials, acquisition of technologies, medicines in similar processes. You've talked about travel, congresses. Well, well, there are issues that can be dealt with. Indeed, the amendment we have signed speaks of an issue which is a reference, which is the ethical code, that is to say, then Mrs Larrauri will also speak, no doubt, but to ensure that the code of ethics and conduct of public officials in the administration of the Autonomous Community and its public sector influences the people who depend on those public posts. There is only a list of the addresses of those responsible for public offices under the Department of Health to see how many people hang on to their mandate or direction. And, in that sense, understand that these people – officials, administrative technicians, doctors, or the people they investigate – are also within that oversight of the ethical code that affects their bosses or directors. In that sense, there's going to be a good chance. I do not know whether you will be the rapporteur, surely you will be Mr Hernández, but you will have a good opportunity to touch on this issue in the public employment bill that is now being developed, which is in the process of appearances in Parliament. And, precisely, that perhaps possibility of development but, in any case, of reference and relevance, article 167 of that draft law on public employment in process, with the code of ethics and conduct of the Basque public employees. In particular, general principles that inspire the code of ethics and conduct of the Basque public employee staff where it refers, then, to the Regulatory Law of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges of 2014. That is, as a reference element for making this code of ethics and conflicts of interest of public offices also applied to Basque public employees. It is clear that the direction you can go goes in what you say. There is nothing better than a bill to lay down certain issues that are already laid down by the law in relation to controlling that possible bad practice or those misguided customs in relation to what is a correct course of action. That is to say, there is the code of ethics, the conduct of the posts, there will be that law of public employment if Parliament so approves. But there is also the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, where we talk about the issues that have to do with civil servants and workers in relation to the duties of public employees. And article 52, article 53 and article 54 of that Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, approving the consolidated text of the Law on the Basic Status of Public Employees, affects and can be applied perfectly. And he talks in his articles about the duties of public employees in the code of conduct, he talks about ethical principles. In that regard, he said, among many other points: "Any private activity, an interest that may entail the risk of creating conflicts of interest with his public office, will be abstained from taking part in financial transactions or property obligations, legal transactions with entities that may involve a conflict of interest, and will not accept any favour treatment or situation involving undue privilege or advantage." This is stated in article 53 of that legislative decree which is applicable and which can be applied and which should be applied, such as article 54, where the principles of conduct are stated that, among other issues affecting public employees, they will administer public resources and property with austerity. We are talking about a question of austerity also because, in fact, a bad practice in that increases some prices or costs, and they will not be used for their own benefit or for the benefit of people close to them. And one of the issues to which you referred is also said: any gift, favor or service under advantageous conditions that goes beyond usual uses or questions will be rejected. In this sense, there are possibilities, there are rules that can be applied and, of course, that must be applied by the health authority, in this case, by those who, by complying with the code of conduct and ethics as high officials, have to do so also to their subordinates. I read with interest – and surely this initiative can come from there – a congress, a few days of the Federation of Public Health Associations, in relation to conflicts of interest within health systems in order to be able to limit the power of industry in negotiating prices on medicines and thus reduce costs. It is interesting, I have read it and I suppose it will be very inspiring of your initiative, that is why the associations for the defense of public health. But the important thing is that we have reached that agreement on those three points. The first one we talked about, strict compliance with the code of ethics. At this time, for those who have to fulfill it but, of course, those who have to fulfil it, which is the public office, to enforce the people who are dependent on those posts. That puts it clearly in the references to the object of the code of ethics and conduct when it says: "Both in their individual conduct – high office – as in their projection in the institution or organization of which they are part and respect for citizenship". That is, compliance with the ethical code is for the high office and for those who depend on it, and oversee it and enforce it. We have talked about the rules that can be applied at this time and that can be adopted. I understand that your group will try to do so in the legislative process and, of course, we have accepted, as it could not otherwise be, the proposal that this measure we were talking about, the code of ethics and the analysis and updating of the regulation in the conflict of interest that the Basque Government can make – or the Parliament in this case, I return to repeat–, this measure affects all the professionals of Osakidetza, as well as those who develop their professional teaching research activity in the Department of Health and also affects the group of professionals of the research institutes. It is quite clear that we have a frame of reference, we have a possibility of regulatory action. But we are on the basis that that bill, that public employment law can acquit and control in a much more efficient way what you ask of us. I would also like to thank Mr Uria and Mrs Larrauri in particular for their efforts to reach this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u68	Thank you, Madam President, very briefly. Only to tell Mr Uria that, in fact, this is a matter that has brought about other times in a cross-cutting way, that concern that has ethics as to whether it is what prevails in some professionals. As you have said, the ethical code has been a reality since two legislatures and, indeed, the professionals sign it and comply with it because, moreover, I understand that they believe it. I share with you that it is probably necessary to take some measures, that there is greater control, greater transparency. But, of course, what we cannot support from the Socialist Group is that starting point of almost de facto guilt on the part of some professionals. In a debate on a very similar subject, I told him that I understood that those who attend a congress, those who are invited, even those who are paid to attend those congresses that they attend, many doctors do not believe that they do so for interests that they then have to pay. So just say that we will support the compromise amendment that we have signed. We understand that ethics is a fundamental thing that must prevail among medical professionals and, of course, also in the exercise of politics. But, as I say to you, I believe that it will be a minority of those who act in another way and, of course, all my vote of confidence for the professionals who work in public health. Because, besides, you know a lot about that and I understand that you in the exercise of your profession have never worked in breach of anything that you denounce here today. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u69	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Firstly, to welcome the agreement we have reached with the proposing group and the other amending group, and to thank for the flexibility shown by both Mr Barrio and Mr Uria and Mrs Red so that we can reach a meeting point that has enabled us to reach this agreement; although it seems a priori a simple subject, because it is not so much so. It seems to be a matter of consensus. But, well, it has its nuances and I appreciate the effort to be able to reach the essential, to what unites us, and to have been able to reach this agreement which was nothing more than to advance in greater control in the possible conflicts of interest that may exist. We all share that the objective of the public sector must be to move forward in a cultural change in a more ethical and moral sense, to move forward in greater transparency and impartiality so that, in the end, citizens continue to maintain confidence in the public – I insist –, continue to maintain it, because I understand that citizens perceive respect for Basque public institutions and their professionals. And this is the issue of conflicts of interest, although the initiative is confined to the health field, since it is applicable to the entire public sector. We agree that it is possible, that there is room for improvement in the control of conflicts of interest. However, we disagree on the formula initially put forward by the proposer who made a preliminary statement for all, absolutely all and all professionals, to be free from a conflict of interest with regard to industries, mainly pharmaceuticals, but also with regard to other industries. We believe that this is not the right formula because it is neither appropriate to demand it in all the cases in which it arises nor is it effective. We understand that there are many assumptions and possible effects in the face of the insistence of a conflict of interest. There may be alleged conflicts of interest, conflict of interest and what is needed is to clarify it, whether the professional or the professional explains what conflict of interest he or she has. For the case of publications, for example, in the clinical practice guides, as you have appointed, Mr Uria, in which it is desirable for the professional to report on what conflict of interest he or she has for whom he or she can make his or her composition of the place, to form an opinion of what influence he or she may have and thus the objective in this case would be greater transparency. In other cases, for example, the existence of a conflict of interest will have far more restrictive effects, as may be the case for professionals who have to advise a contracting body. Therefore, the assumptions are very varied and their effects too, so we do not understand that the formula of a prior declaration of being exempt for absolutely everyone is the appropriate formula. Nor is it suitable because it cannot be a fixed photo, it must be a living instrument. It cannot be that a statement that is made today, within a year, within x time, has no value, with which it would not be effective either. Another issue is that we understand that it is appropriate for professionals to adhere to ethical codes. That formula, that way, we do see it more feasible. In any case, what we all agree on is to move forward on greater control, to move forward, to carry out an analysis and to move forward on that greater control in the alleged cases of interest. And we have taken this into account in the compromise amendment. In any case, we cannot forget, as the previous speakers have said, that already exists in Basque, we already have regulations in the field, in the regime of incompatibilities, of conflict of interest, in the field of ethics and public conduct. And to highlight the code that has been named, the Code of Ethics and Conduct that the Basque Government has had since 2013, a document that has evolved, adapting to the different needs. In addition, therefore, all personnel exercising managerial functions, subjecting themselves to their principles, values, conduct and modes of action, with a system of evaluation and monitoring, which, in the case of non-compliance, have consequences, for example, and which can lead to a cessation. And so, with the rule in place, what we asked in the compromise amendment is that it should continue to be complied with, that it should continue to be enforced. And to highlight whether an innovative factor, which is a forecast contained in the draft law on public employment, which we have received in this Parliament for its processing and, where appropriate, approval, is that all, without prejudice to the forecast that the Basic Statute of the Public Employee has on the issue of conflict of ethics, of ethical codes, because all public personnel, all employees and public employees are subject to those codes. And there it would be, that would be a great novelty, not only is it limited to managers, to managerial staff with managerial functions, but it would be extended to all staff, an issue that has been highly valued by prestigious experts and independent public institutions. The Basque Government therefore has a long way to go in Euskadi. Another issue is that the different sectors continue to advance in greater control. And finally, to warn that we must be cautious and respectful, careful, prudent in raising suspicions about professionals, because in the end not all actions, not all actions must be subject to suspicion and must, they are supposed to be, they must be presumed to have greater professionalism and respect, so that in the end the citizenry can continue to maintain that trust in the public. And, simply, thanking and celebrating the agreement, and being a health issue, I would like to acknowledge the work that Mr Darpón has done, and I regret the unjust persecution he has suffered. And wishing it would be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. "And it shall be [that] the leader of the children of Israel shall not stand, but the deputy of the children of Israel, [that] your word [is] yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u72	I'm not going to go in there all the time. You didn't want me to explain anything, to clear up suggestions on the table, to make sure that it wasn't going to happen again, you looked at the other side, you didn't question political matters, and you were interested. Well, Mr. Uria, when we received our proposal for discussion today, we didn't quite understand it, we didn't know what you meant by this suggestion, or we couldn't understand it, or interpret it. And I don't even know if we've understood the proposal very well, Mr. Uia, because we haven't yet invented what you're trying to accomplish with this initiative, the middle course you've been through. It was our interpretation, Mr. Uriya, and you will correct me if I am wrong or wrong, that is to say, in all health, all perfections, and all the rest of the world, in all the operations of inquiry, forming, and all these operations, in business, that is to say, a document to detect a conflict of interest. Is that so? Is that what you were looking for? So, Mr. Uriya, you know this world better than anyone here, do you really think it's effective to sign a document? Do you really think about it? We think we don't. We think it's not enough to sign a document when we see what we've seen. It's not enough. Look, even in public offering 2016-2010, they had to sign a confidentiality protocol. Did it work for anything? No, it didn't work. We think it's no use at all when you see it, and when everybody knows it, better than you in hospitals, especially in hospitals, and what's going on in the medical centres, how they do purchases, how they get technology, and how this takes consequences in a personal level. In order to co-operate, Madame Laruri, the field of impunity has been maintained, has been guaranteed, and that must be ended. Mr. Urkullu, today, because today you've consumed political cares today, it can be an inflexium point if you change politics, if you change course. "Cautelios sai, pero con responsabilidad, Madame Larauri." Responsadildad y series. And here is what we must do, end this desert of impunity. And for that we have to set another policy. And what you've done in the middle of the road today, and what you've accepted, it's no use. I'm sorry. This is not a step in this direction, but to keep what is. That's what we see. And all this is happening with everyone's public money. He's played with everybody's public money and he's playing the game. And that has to be over. The other day, as we said before, he said to me, when I was arguing about the affairs of public offers: "see, other of this subject is shopping." Yes, the praxies of the leaders of business with different industry, or when a director of the plan is accepted or rejected, such as the director's plan of laboratory labors, in particular interests, and not everything that lies behind it in the general interest. Is that acceptable? No? If it's not acceptable, we'll have to fix it, right? Or should we leave him like this? But it's not just purchases, research, laboratorys, publications... No. Peondas get into conflict with interest too. The peondas are also connected with conflict of interest. Or aren't conflicts of interest? It also interferes with private interests when it works in public and private areas when it works together. Besides, as we saw in the question of Margüello, the list of waitings when the officers are in charge of them, when they are debriefing themselves. That's a conflict of interest, and they haven't even mentioned it today. And that's something you need to consider, too. And here, in this house, we've asked for several times with specific proposals, and, among other things, Margüello's question, was admitted in this house to perform the consequences which were agreed on in the study committee, and the Medical Department refused to do so. So today's proposal to be accepted keeps us here. He doesn't bring in anything new because he guarantees the praxies that are so natural in Osapartics, and we have to end up with it. We must conclude that what has hitherto been natural and normal is not natural and normal to people. We need a change of culture, as you said very well, a transfer of culture at Osa. And this is done with effective measures, precise measures, with a specific policy. And today, in the middle, there is no politics, no precise measures, and there is nothing. And it's a minimum, and I know it's not easy, and we're not going to get it either in a legislation or even twice, but we have to start with the measurements, with the effective measure. And for this reason the minimum regret is to apply those principles which are used for hiring health services in public use, to control the list of waitings, and to place contrivances for transparency. To guarantee a suitable rule for the control of the lists, to take them to practice as they ought; it is necessary to force internal controls, and also to consider the question of inconsistency, to consider the question of inconsistency, which is also connected with conflict of interest. And what we need here is a regulation, but especially what we need is a political will to follow that regulation later on, and not to leave that regulation in the drawer. It's absolutely necessary and it's urgent. It's urgent, so we'll start working on a culture change and this change of culture. Otherwise, it would be useless to consume political cares. But what do we see? Now, we see that the government has hitherto gone in the opposite direction, weakening public control and social criteria, the organization model of the Osciforms atomizing, dividing, dividing the first integrated sanitarian institutions, and then the units of NSIGH. It is thus hard to follow all this from public control, is impossible. And then what can't be done has been done to protect those who are doing it, because since the new headmaster of the Oscars has even entered, that's what he's doing, he's doing, he's protecting and giving his appointments and giving attention to those practices. And the message couldn't be that, the message couldn't be a member of the Osar. At first, Poppular Party liked the proposal, it seemed more appropriate to us, to make a regulation, to receive it, and then to admit it, but that too is different. Then the government includes as a trick the work-in-law's Ethics and behavior Act, Code 13/2013. What's that talking about? Is that where you're supposed to get to? I'd say that we need other contrivances, other policies. And here it is to strike a blow at the table, to cut down the sphere of impunity, and to convey a blow to the clear message from the legislature and from the government. And the message must be: not on my behalf and not on everybody's money. That must be the message and the message must be in exact sizes to finish this impunity area and not sign declarations, because we've seen what's happened with the statement signing so far. Then if this has happened so far, why should it not happen from now on? Here, apart from the sum of political cares, we need policy, we need change of direction. And we don't understand why one more chance has been lost today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u74	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, lehendakari, Sailburuak, compañeros and compañeras. Please note that I have raised four issues with this issue of the declaration of exemption by professionals and professionals from conflicts of interest with industry. The first, that we have an ethical code in this government and also an ethical code that has made it a pioneer in these issues and has a lot of scope. Secondly, I have put forward two examples, the Sackler family and Dr. Baselga, in an attempt to demonstrate very briefly that the issue we are talking about is an international one, affecting everyone, affecting the most powerful lobbies, moving unthinkable quantities and that, indeed, it is a very complex matter to control. Thirdly, I try to prove that the whole game of gifts, congresses, trips, is a game that conditions professional practice, research practice. In addition, I have tried to clarify some aspects in which our Government, since this non-law proposal is going to be adopted, can begin to implement, to organize how the declaration of interest is organized. In particular, I have mentioned the clinical trial committees of our hospitals, I have commented on the people who make decisions in the department and in Osakidetza in the purchases of medicines and vaccines, for example, the Vaccine Advisory Council of the Department of Health, have not signed a document, because there are multiple documents of declaration of exemptions of interest, the Court of Auditors itself has a document, but this is not an element. I have not brought here an administrative or bureaucratic discussion, I have raised a political issue, a matter of scope, which has to do with ethical practice in the face of a very complex situation of handling. Of course, Mrs Ubera has said that since the size of the problem is so broad and because it is not very concrete in GNP, it is very difficult to know what we are talking about. It's not hard to know what we're talking about, it's easy to know what we're talking about. It is difficult to organize the management of ethics in the health sector, it is difficult, but it is easy to start, all those who investigate, all those who investigate, sign a document, who are free of conflicts of interest. Members of the procurement desks for equipment and technology purchases in Osakidetza sign a public document, which is free of conflict of interest. Those who make decisions on the provision of medicines and vaccines sign a document that is free of conflict of interest. If I do not say anything else, little by little, the Basque Government does not have the capacity to confront international finance, the ambition of the boards of directors of... We don't have the capacity, we're going little by little on the instruments. "I speak loudly so that they do not fall asleep" with the instruments that we have in our hand. We are not going to require all family doctors who have a job in Osakidetza and all nursing professionals to sign a document because it may not come to light. It's a drama of the situation. I was a director in an outpatient clinic in the '80s, when I had an old age of eighty and so many years and said, "Hey, my doctor doesn't give me this pill." What pill is it, ma'am? It's optalidon, an opiate, and it says to me, "It's that I don't know how to live without it, it's that I look, I get up, I take it and I can live, they can't take it away from me." It's an opiate, it's a drama, we want our family doctors, our nurses, our specialist doctors to make it clear that they can't play the board of directors of pharmaceuticals, it can't be, they're very powerful. We want the Basque Government, and that is why we have made this humble GNP which is only the beginning of other discussions that we are going to have, to put in place operational mechanisms, not mechanisms, Estíbaliz Larrauri, bureaucratic or administrative, not: operating mechanisms where our researchers and our researchers, our doctors and professionals who make decisions, sign documents, which are free from conflicts of interest with the industry. Of course, to say that, and I finish now, to a cardiology congress that brings together 4,000 cardiologists in the Euskalduna, all paid for, is a rather complex issue. All my friends are there, or nephrologists, 1,200 in the Euskalduna, all paid, it's very complicated to handle that. But we can tell our heads of services in Osakidetza not to make public statements about drug or technology proposals, if they have not signed a document before that they are free of conflicts of interest. That's what we mean, this is just the beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u75	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u76	Yes, thank you, Madam President, and very shortly too. I do not know, in that apocalyptic view that Mrs Ubera has on completed approaches, today she has touched upon the question that Mr Uria has raised with good judgment, has she not? And he said that the agreement, which keeps us in the current situation, is not worth anything, only it has the formula: it is the cultural change in Osakidetza. That is to say, we are missing an opportunity, that is to say, but let us see, Mrs Ubera, I think it is a little more constructive and proactive, that is to say, you have decided to move away from this agreement today, an agreement which deepens your call on the Government to speed up, to analyse, to update and to put the issues we have talked about today on the blackboard. In addition, at the beginning of his intervention he tried to mix things up, as communicating vessels in relation to some dysfunctions and this we were putting forward. And I don't think so, I think... And besides, you have to know it better than me, or just like me, I don't. I say this because it is repeated in the applications, the request for explanations to the Government with certain issues. And, above all, many times in front of the trade unions, I am not going to defend the government, but I have to say that equal in health is at least where more control can be, that is, there are a number of issues that have to do with the laws and with their compliance, there are many more managers, that is, they have to ensure their code of ethics and to enforce it to others. But there are seven trade unions operating, some of them relentlessly, a check on health provision, on the health system, on medical personnel, i.e. in an effective way. I mean that control at least there is, that is, and that union control that you are absolutely supportive of, militant of, and also brings it here with a fairly understandable transmission strap; but it joins everything we have commented on before, in relation to the regulations, in relation to that ethical code and in relation to that bill that we are seeing as an opportunity. Few have referred to him, but we are seeing him as an opportunity. I advise you that, I don't know if you will take that topic or any of your colleagues, but that you see that there is a chance. And that royal legislative decree to which I referred and this GNP is also another opportunity to move forward. I mean, in that framework of action, we don't want to make fatalism, we don't want to say that this is apocalyptic. We understand that there are problems, but we have agreed, thanks to Mr Uria, to move forward and that is the fundamental element. Look, Mrs. Ubera, it's just that you can't say that this is not worth anything, you can't say that, and that I didn't tell you the other day when you raised an agreement about the Trueba Institute or about the concerted education that didn't say anything new. This does say something new, because first we identify a problem and we continue to move forward and we do so in addition to all the parties, except you who have wanted to marginalize yourself at this time. I mean, I think we have to act, of course, with less ability to see everything so fatal and everything so black. So, in that sense, I think I might as well rectify your position and accept something that you will then also be able to control, and I say it again, if you carry the public employment law in an even more effective way, I don't know if you are achieving that cultural change that you are pursuing, but at least what we are talking about today, control of good practices, of course, where there are them, right? Because indeed, as Mrs Larrauri or Mrs Red rightly said, this must not be extended; there may be certain practices which are not correct, and which will have to be limited, but most of the vast majority of those who have to face teaching, research, innovation, treatment, surgery every day are absolutely impressive people in their capacities in Basque public health, techniques and, of course, in their honesty, that goes ahead. And finally, Mrs Larrauri, I also send a greeting to Mr Darpón, of course, but I reject a persecution. Look, we are politicians, and the political leaders and members of a government because they are politicians and are also subjected in an intense way, as everyone else is, to criticism or good to a demand in relation to certain issues. I, of course, greet Mr Darpón, but I reject the fact that there is no persecution against him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialist, Mrs. Rojo mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Madame Laruri, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u78	Yes, ma'am, from the seat, if you please. I simply wish to highlight the agreement reached and the Government's commitment to further progress in this area, although it is clear that the foundations are laid. And, Mrs Ubera, if you want and want these rules to reach the last person of all public administrations, you have the opportunity to approve or support the Basque public employment law, which we have collected there. It'll be in your hands. And, just like that, I want to congratulate you on the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u80	Madam Laruri, I will not be in trouble to accept the law of public function, and to accept it, if the conversation is present, if you accept our content and contributions, and negotiate, if the real negotiation remains. That's right, if it's a negotiation to all of you to accept what you're saying, that's not what you're saying. That way we won't accept it, because it has a lot to improve the Public Function Act. Look, it's true, it's a political matter, a deep political subject, very deep, very important, and very complex. I said, this subject can't be solved from day to day with precise measurements, it would take a long time, a long time. But with measurements. It's just size and content. But I'm sorry, Mr. Uria, but in this proposal there is no political measure. You know what's here? What you denied. There's only one bureaucratic measure here. And that doesn't lead us anywhere. Now we have seen where the bureaucratic measure leads us, and then let us change. Let's change. And we think there should be a chance for that. And that's what makes it work and change it in the organization. Shopping, for example: What we have to do is change the way we go shopping. Change if there are options, right? That can be done. The waitlist management mode, no way to know, real, real waiting lists are countless. How and who digests the wait-lists? What about the debates? You know better than I do, Mr. Uria. Publishings, peons, what's going on? So what we need here is another way to get organized. And we, from our humility, better or worse, have put precise propositions in all these matters from previous legislation. But, well, we admit you don't see them, you don't see them, you don't share them and there's no way you can get them. There's no way. How many times have we spoken of these matters? Well, you don't see ours, and I'm sorry, but we don't see what we see today. And of this proposition later, if anything should be more precise, I shall have no complex one to admit and agree to it, as we do in several other matters. We won't have any problems, but today's nothing. It's nothing. Mr. Barrio, we don't have magic formulas. No one here has magic formulas. And because we have no magic formulas, we should listen to each other and try to change things and not stay in their own trench. And it seems to me at this moment that today was a chance to start working in another direction. But we can still see that the inertia are large and that there are hangovers for many years. And, Mr. Barrio, a chance we saw in your proposal, we don't see a chance in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together Podemos, Basque Popular, Basque Socialists, and the semi-correction which the Eubertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at the meeting, 74; supporters of 56; rivals, 18; white, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-14.u82	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
