ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. I just want you to know that the eleventh point is left for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of M. Josunun Gorosune Elerkano Eerkano, a member of the staff of the United States, made of Ogasun and economic department, about the present economic occasion." Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, good morning to all of you. The lawyer of the department covers you, and there, for a little while, I see you, a special day also. First of all, I wish to congratulate you on the behalf of our legislative party. We've heard about you, the firm commitment to your department, and the funding of your budgets from the gender view, and that area. We'll have a chance to talk a lot about it, but I want you to know that you have a full support from our legal staff, because it's very important. Going to the subject today, in the past few weeks, in a press conference that you spent last week, and in an interview on a radio this week, the economic analysis has appeared in a coiundation tour last week. You've given a lot of data about the development of Esscal economics. You have compared it there with the data of the previous years, and you have said that, despite the degradation, this means that the growth of the economy is slow, but that the growth of the economy exists. And that's what you said and you insisted. Economy, Esscal economy, is growing. You insisted, counselor, a lot on that idea, that, by making a comparative analysis of the data from the evolution of the Basque economy, that, although there was a slowdown, that was a smaller growth, but a growth. You insisted: "I want to stop at this idea: the Basque economy grows, grows as if to be able to generate employment," he said. you– and, in addition, strong growth." From our parliamentary group, we always tend to... in our talks we say what is the profile of the politician that Basque society demands, asks. And we believe that one of the important characteristics is to be positive, to have a positive attitude, to respond calmly and with correctness, even though the situations that one can have in front of them are not always the most favorable, or the ones that one likes most, the most comfortable for a person. But it does respond with a positive attitude to situations that may not be the best. But Basque society demands this: rigour in the analysis of data, responsibility at the time to face reality, calmness, correction, respect and positive attitude. For this reason, we thank you for putting the emphasis on this fact, in which the Basque economy is growing. However, being so, and with the data you have, we would like to know what the forecast is for the evolution of the Basque economy in the future. Hence our question, considering the information and data you have in your hands with precision, which you foresee will be the development of the Euscal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u3	Mrs. President of the legislature, Mr President, President, members of the legislature, Mrs. Gorospe, good morning, and thank you most sincerely for your words. I would like to start this answer in a strong way: Euskadi has a strong, powerful economic situation that will allow us for a while to be optimistic. Few days ago, as you said, our economic growth forecast was revised from 2.3 to 2.2 % for this year 2019. This means that we move on to solid growth values. The Deceletion of 2019 will be especially the first semester, and the most pessimistic data shown by the industrial agent in the last few months is believed to be transient. Esta revisión de una illima se enmarca en unconso de desaceleración de las ognomías de nuntro entorno. It is worth noting the forecasts for 2019 made, for example, by Germany, which have risen from 1.5 % to 1 %, due to commercial tensions, the weakness of its trading partners... France, for example, from 1.6 to 1.3 – the tension caused by the crisis of the yellow vests is no stranger to this issue. Italy, from 0.7 to 0.1, for political tensions and a rather apathetic demand. United Kingdom, from 1.5 to 1.3 – here are the issues like the subject of Brexit In our case, the industry has been experiencing a relative decline in activity in the last quarter of last year, mainly by the automotive sector. What happens to us is that, being a small country, any specific sectoral impact affects us in a considerable way. But, in terms of the annual average, the industrial sector will change by 1.7% in 2019, and will increase to 1.9 – we believe – by 2020. Therefore, a growth to consider as well. Construction will moderate its intensity, although it will be the most dynamic sector, while services will mark a more stable and sustained growth profile. Job creation is 1.5% for this year 2019, and for 2020 we estimate an increase of 1.3%. And these figures involve 14,800 more jobs this year and 12,500 more jobs next year. The unemployment rate will continue to fall in the coming quarters and will be below 10% in both years, so we will meet our legislative objective. In other words, this economic growth will allow us to create jobs and raise our revenue at a rate that will allow us to finance our public policies. Indeed, there is a slowdown, but I invite us not to be obsessed, because our economy will continue to function and grow in its potential values. As far as 2020 is concerned, economic progress will, according to our forecasts, be 2%. I therefore reiterate once again that the Basque economy is growing, and employment is being generated. As far as that goes, the Basque economy is growing in its potential values. Euscali economy is growing: deceration means a slower growth, but growth, after all; and important growth, I should say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Congressman of the House of Goldugus, made of the president's behavior as well as of the "Mortal De Griers." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u5	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. La Naval, the compact order, the first focus in the Ossar, the headquarters, live service, Ubik, Dia... We can say that in the Basque Country there's a lot of business conflicts everywhere. But the question is: Are you kidding me? Do you really think that your government is doing what it's worth to do for the workers' rights and workforces for the workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good days. And to you, Mr. Casanova. And you know perfectly well what the responsibility is between the examples mentioned, and you know it better than I do. However, in answer to the question, we're doing everything that's in our power, not just the workers, but the worthy conditions of life for all of us, even for the resurrection of the workers' condition. For the past five years, we have done as follows: One: We encourage economic growth, and consequently the income of families has been increased to over 34,000 euros. Two: The 900,000 people who were unemployed got a job. And three: We've invested more economic resources to offer health, education and social protection services. So these last five years, the conditions of life have been better and Euskedin, and that's all excited by Eusk0. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u9	We have heard this on numerous occasions from representatives of your Government and your party, even in this House. In the face of a labour dispute, the PNV and this Government are talking about hostage-taking by the unions calling for a strike; of kidnapping sections of the citizenry; that it is not good for the image of the country; or that it is a systematic strategy to harm the Government and the main party that supports it. Even to yourself we listened a few years ago to face a group of trade unionists and slap that famous phrase of "is this your usual job?". We call for labour disputes to be resolved through collective bargaining, for the conditions of workers to be improved through collective bargaining. Conditions that have deteriorated dramatically in recent years, to a quarter of the labour market with partial work, a third with temporary work, an average of 3% loss of purchasing power of wages, and young people with an average salary of 1,000 euros, who are mileurists, and stuck in 10% unemployment, which their Government sells as a success, but it is one of the highest unemployment rates in the world, not only among developed economies, but also among the economies as a whole. We told you last week that you have a formula that solves all the problems: first you say that you are concerned, and then you trust that a solution will be reached. And, in this case, they could apply that formula: to say "we are concerned about the situation on the labour market and we trust the will of the parties to fix it through collective bargaining". But I will tell you a secret: one of the parties does not trust his goodwill, because he does not want to fix this situation, and that part is the Patronal. And the Patronal does not want to fix this situation, because it is the Patronal that is benefiting; and, therefore, with concern and confidence, this problem will not be solved either. The problem of the breakdown of the labour market and the problem of the loss of social, wage and labour rights of workers in this country is a structural problem that needs a determined plan of action, a proactive plan. It needs a plan to deconstruction of the system and the gear of cuts that has been created to make what is going on for the benefit of the Patron, and it needs a plan to deconstruction of those cuts and a plan to rebuild rights. What happens to his Government is that he neither does nor lets do, when it is the unions that are making improvements by fighting, by strike, by mobilizing, and, while it is these unions that are preventing the law of the jungle from being definitively established in the world of work, his Government is meant by systematic criticism of the world of trade unions. And when Euskal Herria Bildu brings here proposals, such as the 1,200 euros, the social clauses or the law against the relocation of companies, you too stand against it. It happens to you that you don't do or let it happen. It is you, as we also said the previous week, a tweezer, a conservative tweezer, but a tweezer in which there are two parts, as in any tweezer: two parts of wood, which are the right-wings representing the PNV and the People's Party, and there is a boil too, which, unfortunately, is the necessary piece that is being the Basque Socialist Party. In this conservative clamp, without the Socialist Party of Euskadi, we could not stop the struggle for rights and the recovery of workers' rights. Leave that clip; stand by the rights of the majority of this country, get active in rebuilding rights and stop being a clamp, a brake clip for rights, for wages and for the improvement of the labour market.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Casanova, I have nothing to say about what your aim may be to reorient the question that Mr Urruzuno was asking me about the living conditions of the Basques and Basques in order to bring them to their land, a land that is recurrent in the interventions in this rostrum. It is recurrent in the apocalyptic sense that you want to reflect on what is the situation which, in contrast, is the real one in Euskadi, as has been said in the previous intervention by the Finance and Economics Councillor, and so the data themselves reflect, even in the field of what are the labor relations, with more than 64% of the companies with collective agreement. You have made reference here to what is government, to what is patronal, now already the clamp with the political parties... Look, I'm gonna tell you what the Basque government's goal is. The objective of the Basque Government is to ensure decent living conditions for all people, and it is related to the social priority, for example, of budgets. In Euskadi, in 2013, we dedicated 6.3 billion to social spending, and this year will be 7.1 billion euros. In Euskadi, in 2013, 62% of budgetary expenditure was social, and this year will be 67%. We are, Mr Casanova, the country in our environment that invests and offers better health care, which helps those who need it most with income guarantee income, where there is more aid for access to housing, where educational scholarships and dual training grow. We invest more in disadvantaged areas, we have compromised the strategy against the wage gap, we offer more public employment offers, and family support and reconciliation are growing. I will also tell you that we are the country in our environment with the lowest unemployment rate, Mr Casanova, the highest disposable income for families, the lowest poverty rate and the highest investment in social spending, Mr Casanova. This collective effort, however, has not been supported by EH Bildu, Mr Casanova. However, this Wednesday you were the first to pass the six decrees laws that the Spanish Government has introduced in the Spanish Parliament. There it is, not here. To support the Spanish Government, yes; to support the Basque Government, no. No one understands, Mr. Casanova. So I find your attitude incomprehensible to me. You have accepted the six decrees of the Spanish government for nothing, without obtaining anything. You've voted for your vote for yes. A wolf in the house, a dove in the street. That's what you've shown.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u13	Euskadin otso, Spanish use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, members of the Podemos team made to the president about the political and economic state of the Basques." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Lehendakari jauna, the political stability of Euskadi has been called into question in recent weeks, and the slowdown in the Basque economy is confirmed. Given the political and economic situation in Euskadi, what worries you the most? What's your biggest concern? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u16	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez, about slow slowing down, is already answered by the Thingse and Economics. But my concern and concern for my government, Mr. Martín, is the same every day, and it is written in the first row of our programmes, and I shall read to you in words: "The business is our priority. It's very simple the basic axis of the political act of everything. The rate of deficiency in our society is to lower it from 10 percent." My biggest concern, Mr Martínez, is therefore not to deviate from this concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u19	Mr Lehendakari, of course, there are also other issues to be concerned about. We have already seen the debate that has taken place these weeks on the situation of the Basque economy and the words of Mr Azpiazu, who, despite lowering the forecasts, raises optimism, even some propaganda. However, beyond the apparent good situation in Euskadi, we believe that this data cannot be read disconnected from the global economic context, from which clouds and much uncertainty are coming, and that the International Monetary Fund has summed up as a delicate moment for the global economy. The councilman himself has just said, he has just acknowledged that we are a small country and that each patch affects us more. We have the possibility of a brexit My question is, Mr. President: Is it ready to face the uncertainty of the Eucadi and another crisis? I'm not saying euscal economic, but are the Basque Family ready, our companies, our young people? Ten years after the crisis, wages haven't been recovered, only by the increase of our minimum salary. Many families have no savings, it is a luxury to rent the apartment, many people have not recovered their jobs, and the budget has entered into the normality of the manufactured trade. Is our backup system prepared to keep no one behind us? Because this thing I'm talking about is not a thing of the past, Mr. Urkullu. In the two-speed Euskadi to which you are taking us, this situation is the daily bread of many families. And if your Government is not able to give you an answer now that you don't have to worry about the economy or that you don't have to worry about it, I doubt it will be able to do so if the Basque economy is dragged away by international uncertainty and turbulence. With a productive fabric with much less industry than in 2008, industry continues to be destroyed every day in this country; more services and more precarious. Euskadi is much less prepared to endure a possible crisis. This should be enough to make it a priority for the Government to put in place means not to repeat the social dramas that we experienced in 2008, and this is, among other things, to improve our social protection system, for example, and not with that proposal for an income guarantee law that they have made; but also to bet on an ecological transition of the economy that will enable us to consolidate sectors and jobs of the future and that will finally stop the industrialization of our territory. But the possibility of this in this legislation is in your hands, seeing how you deal with opposition. Please don't do a bictimist on your errand. Make self-critics, talk in conversation, and listen to the real will to make deals. In a situation of political instability in the State and global economic uncertainty, we are seriously concerned that the lehendakari, who has to make Euskadi ready not to leave anyone behind in case they are wrong, does not have sufficient negotiating capacity to agree with the opposition on the necessary measures to protect us. Lehendakari, I really hope that Basque citizenship will not pay for the mismanagement that you and your Government are making of the parliamentary minority in which you are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u20	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I will remain enchanted and we will remain enchanted that rulers representing the United We can in other autonomous communities of the Spanish State come here to Euskadi to compare in what is the evolution of social cohesion and to value the social cohesion of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi as the best of all communities of the Spanish State. In any case, my concern is that the core focus of the Government as a whole is the generation of higher-quality employment opportunities. You are talking about the slowdown in the economy and you have also mentioned the risk of recession. We have reduced the growth forecast by one tenth, and the average growth for the euro area will be around 1% this year, and in Euskadi it will be 2.2%, double. Therefore, slowdown in the general context, yes, but also the reality that affects us, different in relation to what may be the situation that affects the average of the European Union as a whole. The evolution of the Basque economy is positive. We've been growing for five years. This year and the following year the forecast of growth of more than 2% remains, and this growth generates employment, and we are advancing, as has already been said, one year the main objective of the Government and the country: unemployment below 10% in a community in which the weight of industry is at this time 24.3% in the sense of the whole economy, eight points of difference with regard to the weight of industry on the average of the Spanish state as a whole. It is not enough, and we will continue to move forward on the path of the employment and economic recovery plan, moving forward to achieve the objectives of the legislature, the objectives of the government programme, the coalition government Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist Party of Euskadi: to encourage the creation of 58,000 jobs, the first job opportunity for 20,000 young people, to support 6,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in access to external markets, expansion projects or innovation. And this is achieved, Mr Martínez, by acting on three pillars: employment as a priority, public-private concerted action as a strategy, and institutional confidence and stability as a framework for the real productive economy to continue to invest, export and innovate. This ecosystem creates opportunities. And we have been earning jobs for six consecutive years, in an industrial community such as that of Euskadi, in relation to what is another type of productive economy of other autonomous communities. Today there are 90,000 people more affiliated with Social Security than in March 2013, and you too, so much calling for dialogue, can also contribute to making decisions conducive to growth and employment: Lanbide, dual training, industrial policy, innovation, investment in infrastructure, openness to the outside world, entrepreneurship, generational relief in public services, budgetary guidelines, which, beyond the parliamentary minority, is the action of the Government itself. You can sit with the Basque Government, and you can help improve the growth and quality of employment. In any case, Euskadi is moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Social Socialists of the United States, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, to celebrate the survival of the International Work Organization." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u23	Yes, thank you, President. This year 2019 marks the centenary of the creation of the International Labour Organization. The convulsion that the First World War brought to the world and, above all, to Europe led the countries that had faced it to look for instruments that supposed that society would advance in the field of rights and economic development without recourse to war, which had caused so much damage. Thus, in the context of the pacts that put an end to this war, in the Versailles Pact, the League of Nations is created, and, as an agency attached to it, the ILO. We were in 1919, with two important dates: 11 April, the day on which the agreement to establish the ILO was adopted in plenary session of the Peace Conference; and 28 June, the day on which it was incorporated into the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. ILO is created with the intention that the world should go through a path in which social justice is a reference for the understanding of nations and among the various actors within each of them. It is certainly an organism that has survived subsequent confrontation situations. While the League of Nations had to be dismantled in the face of its inability to deal with the problems that had arisen between countries, the ILO had remained in time, and today it was the most senior specialized agency of those who were members of the United Nations. The ILO constitution consisted of representatives from nine countries. Today there are 187 Member States. Its tripartite nature, with the participation of the administration and the representatives of workers and employers, was one of the new developments in its creation, and today remains an important sign of identity of the International Agency. This year, all Member States have turned to celebrating the centenary and preparing for the challenges it will face in its second century of existence: highlighting the achievements of the organization, reaffirming its fundamental values and disseminating them and highlighting the influence that its activity has on people's daily lives are some of the objectives that ILO has set itself in various initiatives that it has as its programme for this year. Getting involved in achieving these goals is a matter for all countries. From anywhere on the planet, contributions can be made to the common objectives of promoting rights at work, promoting decent employment opportunities and strengthening social protection through social dialogue. Our Autonomous Community must not be left out of these initiatives. We and we believe it is an opportunity for Euskadi to join this global movement. On January 22 the dates of celebration began, and these will continue throughout the year and throughout the world. My question, Madam Counsellor, is: does the Basque Government intend to take part in the commemoration of the centenary of the ILO and, more specifically, the Department of Labour and Justice?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u24	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Sánchez, it seems to me very timely to speak in this full session on such an important issue, as is the International Labour Organization, and to do so on such important dates. The Department of Labour and Justice and the Basque Government as a whole do not want to miss the opportunity to commemorate such an important event, as is the centenary of the creation of the ILO. We want to join in and contribute our ideas and reflections. I have already had the opportunity to participate in the 2nd National Tripartite Conference that we held in Madrid in early March. I spoke there and described the efforts that we are making from the Basque Government to promote collective bargaining and social dialogue in Basque. In addition, I was able to share with the Director-General of the ILO, Mr. Guy Ryder, reflections on the future of the tripartite organization and the opportunity opened this year to strengthen the body and to transfer to all citizens its aims and achievements in these 100 years. The centennial events began on 22 January in Geneva with the presentation of the report prepared by the World Commission on the Future of Work: Working for a More Promising Future We have chosen that date because, as you said very well, Mrs Sánchez, 11 April is a key date in ILO history. That day will be one of the four most important celebrations at the international level: on Thursday next week an initiative called the 24 Hour World Tour will be launched. The objective we have set ourselves is that the reflections and contributions that arise in Oñati can be transferred to the conference to be held in June in Geneva. We start from the idea that the regulatory and guarantee regulation that we enjoy today in our environment is neither universal nor guaranteed in the future. One of the sessions of our congress will be devoted to the scope and limits of collective bargaining and social dialogue in the face of the future of work. We will count on the opinion of the most representative trade union and business organisations in Euskadi. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the Basque Government's commitment to promote one of the most important values of the ILO, such as tripartiteism. That is why we have established the Social Dialogue Bureau by means of a decree which I am proud to have been able to publish this commemorative year. The Government's strong support for the United Nations 2030 sustainable human development strategy through the Basque Country 2030 Agenda is also evident. It is clear that we are committed to sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. On the other hand, we must move forward with a more cooperative model of labour relations with two cross-cutting axes: a first level that ensures the stability of the model through sectoral agreements, and a second level that boosts the increased participation and involvement of workers in enterprises. We have an important challenge, as it is to promote open processes of social dialogue in its two dimensions: bipartite and tripartite. I do not want to conclude my speech without referring to the role of women and to safety and health in the world of work. In this we are also in line with the ILO, and I therefore believe that it is essential that we move forward together, and work together in Euskadi. I wish the best of this debate and of the centenary of ILO, and we need ILO to draw up this new social contract and to ensure that the future of work is a decent, quality, equal and safe work for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u26	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Alfonso Alonso Arnezinka, member of the Popula team made to the president about the stability of the Euskal Mojo. " Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. After listening to his lordship and his tax advisor – whom I greet – say this morning that everything is going very well and that we have a positive economic perspective, I understand less what happens with the Law of Contributions, which is what I want to talk to you about. Of course, we've been here eleven years to see if we've fulfilled our obligations, and this comes out and there's no way; the excuses have been evolving. The problem, first, was that the disputations were of different color; now they are all PNV. Then, the problem was that there was no agreement with the Cup; the issue of the Cup was settled. The problem was, then, that a report of the Municipal Law had to be made; the report was made, which, by the way, angered everyone. And nothing, either, there's no way the subject could come up. They promised us, then, that by December he would be, but he wasn't. Now they've put up a patch to correct some of the misadjustments that the model generates, but there's no way this will come out. And I ask him: what's going on? What's the problem? Why is it so hard to get this thing through?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, everything is not going well; everything is improveable, and that is the purpose of the Government's action: to try to improve even when things are, in general, reasonably well. In relation to the Law of Contributions, you know that all laws have their importance and all laws have their peculiarity, but you know that this is not any law, which requires a high degree of institutional and political consensus, and that this debate concerns the three institutional levels of the country and requires a certain and adjusted view of what is the whole social and also institutional reality. It is therefore a matter of drafting and adopting a law that takes into account the socio-economic characteristics of each historical territory and provides a horizon of certainty and financial stability for our institutional system and for all public policies. To this end, the Government is working with the institutional set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Look, last week, Mr. Erkoreka, your spokesman, he just said that you were going to throw out the towel and that the legislature... Look, throw in the towel, with everything left to do. You don't have... So, almost none of the laws he committed have come forward. And, in addition, the argument is that the opposition here makes him a clamp and blocks government action. As you will understand, with these gentlemen I do not think it will take me very well to make you a tweezer, and that you live only from negative parliamentaryism, without a positive parliamentaryism that can bring things forward. But, of course, in the light of the Law of Contributions, it leads me to make that reflection, and I say, but, really, is that the problem that you...? Is that attempt to socialize your failures and blame everyone else? Of course, I see the Act on Contributions, but how can your party's deputies-general make the clip too? Are they blocking government action? Is there an orchestrated maneuver to keep this from coming out? No, right? So, perhaps, the problem, sometimes, is not that; perhaps, the problem is a problem of leadership, which is what I am demanding of you, and it is a problem of a clear model. And, in this case, specifically, it is a model that affects the basis of how we view our country. To the Basque Government, it is true that it seems that the money is left. We see the execution data being published; I don't know, 474 million last year, more than 550 million in 2017. Look, you have one billion left in two years, and meanwhile, municipalities and parliaments are in a situation of financial difficulty because they have to assume burdens and obligations that we have been imposing on them in terms of welfare, social protection, and because they have a model that achieves perverse effects: the more you collect, the less resources you may have. And, therefore, it is a model aimed at the voracity of the Basque Government, to practice the centralism that you denounce in Madrid. Skills, financing, money for the Basque Government... That must be your model, and that's why you don't reach a consensus. But the inability of the Government to reach agreements is not the fault of the opposition, its amago to throw out the towel is not reasonable, and what you have to do is to exercise leadership, because you cannot continue to blame what does not always come out to everyone else. At least, in this case, it is not credible, Mr Lehendakari, that your party has also turned against you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, to clarify some point in relation to the budget failure, look, if we discount the effect of the implementation of the "And Basque", Euskadi is the community in the Spain with the highest budget implementation rate: 97.8% compared to 94.6% of the average. By the way, the lack of implementation does not mean, Mr Alonso, idle or lost resources; it means a saving in management, which results in a lower need to resort to indebtedness. You said you threw the towel away. This is April 5th; in order for the autonomous elections to coincide with the municipal, foreign and European elections, I had to have dissolved Parliament last Monday, and publish the decree last Tuesday. We're here today. And that's my purpose: to move on. In any case, it would be interesting if, in relation to the legislative timetable and the legislative programme and its degree of compliance, you would analyse the degree of compliance by the Governing Council with the adoption of the preliminary draft laws in the Governing Council, and also examine the degree of effectiveness of the legislative, which is the Parliament – the legislative, which is the Parliament – when adopting the laws. Look, I don't hide the difficulties; you know them. In 2011, when the Act on Contributions came into force, the People's Party supported the Basque Government, and ruled the Arab Diputation. You had the opportunity to show the ability to agree that you are now claiming, but with an absolute majority in Parliament, as you were counting at that time, you did not make any progress, Mr Alonso. That's right, that same year 2011, you made progress on the clamp that says I'm reporting. No, no, I denounce a way of making opposition; I do not denounce the opposition. I denounce a way of making opposition, which is what I told you in the previous full control. But in relation to that clamp, you made progress in the City Hall of Gasteiz, when the People's Party agreed to municipal taxes with EH Bildu, and other initiatives it agreed with EH Bildu. This ability to agree that you practiced is the one that should be recovered. Look, we have reached consensus that should be remembered, such as the fiscal pact, for example, in 2013, and it is a good model. And, in any case, we have achieved two important consensuses: first, in June, the Government, outlaws and Eudel approved the analysis of their own competences and the financing of the institutional levels of the Community, a study that the Law on Local Institutions considers a prior analysis of the Law on Contributions. And second consensus: the Basque Finance Council unanimously agreed to the creation of an extraordinary fund. Two consensuses that provide for and are the foreword to the Act on Contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "The Internation, made by the members of the Congress of the Council, Josu Estarrona Elizndo, to the president by the preparation of youth and the risk of losing a whole generation of youth in front of the risk of being happy." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u35	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. The interpenetration of the day was to be conducted in the control section of March 8th, but in the legislature the presence of women is very large, and they strike. Fortunately, this year, the majority, the majority of the women, made a strike, and you abandoned this whole Union. They had a strike, among other things, because they accused him of bringing the proclamation to an end with the cracks at Sorcia, but also because we men have more opportunities than women, and this reality, especially because it is something that happens in youth. That's how you get it from the last diagnosis of the younger Basque situation published last week by the Young Basque Watchery. Here, again, they are confirmed by so many natural propensities, and consequently by their want of capacity to change their independence. It is evident that, when we observe the demographic factors, youth population is less and less in society. The index of the young men is continually descending; it is now of 13% the smallest ever, and it is one of the lowest parts of Europe. The rate of fertility is continually going down, but it is high enough to be the lowest of all time, and for the first time, to be children: it's already located in 32 years, the highest ever. And as far as the scope of employment is concerned, it is extremely difficult to see in this study that the activity rate of young intermediates between 16 and 29 years is still downwards, where the rate of activity of the whole population is in a slight tendency to increase. If we go through the English rates, the percentage of the young in the last decades has gone down. In 2006, the percentage of young men who worked was 55 percent. And in 2018, it's only 40% of the youngest. And this is the data from the Chinese Eusteen in the last 15 years, 135,000 young men have been in the Esquical Autonomia Esquimia. It's said fast. It is said easy and soon: 135,000 young people less than 15 years ago we have in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, 135,000. And yet, the rate of unemployment among the young population is much higher than at the time; be accountable. And it is true that they are global trends in the euro area – you previously confirmed some macro data – but it is also true that here it is more pronounced, and what we have here resources, we have the capacity and we have the space to be able to stop it. But this Government lacks a plan to ensure orderly relief and access for young people to the labour market in conditions of stability and quality. And this is not said by EH Bildu; this is said by the ESC, the Basque Economic and Social Council, and we have been warning this for a long time. We have been warning you for a long time that you only conform to quantitative objectives and do not act as much in qualitative terms, and it is necessary in the face of the paradigm shift that we are living in, and to do so according to our socio-economic characteristics. This, in addition to being a priority issue, is an issue that needs to be addressed, and it is not worth preaching and saying lately; it is necessary to act, because we are talking about a generation that has only known precariousness. We live in the time of the presidency of youth, Mr. Urkullu, because this generation has grown, bred, and lived in the presidency, and the prerogative of young men is one of the most serious circumstances in the hands of this people. There is no data or inquiry that does not warn us of the gravity of the state of the data. His profession warned him of the danger of losing a whole generation in his phantom study, and I have a ghost because you published it and immediately destroyed it, because it was contrary to the interests of this executive; that is to say, because he showed the inability to subvert the state. And that's not the worst of it. It's very disturbing for us to sit in front of the recently publicized data as a positive tendency, because this self-conscious attitude somehow augments that state of anxiety. In Europe, these are the young men who are the last to spend their time, the youth's poetry went up at 9002008, and from then on, it has no descending tendency, our young men move between the prerogatives and the unemployment, it's a high rate of unemployment, and the provisionalness grows up, and they've got partial contracts, and they've got preperitive pay. And how can our young men get credit with such conditions of work? How will young people in this country be emancipated under such working conditions? The Basque Youth Council itself states that Basque youth should charge twice as much as they currently do in order to be able to become independent in isolation. And you have a very potential housing law that, in this sense, you are not developing, and we don't know very well why. And it is that, as I said, young people with quality jobs and decent housing are a species in danger of extinction. And in front of this situation, Mr. Urkullu, despair is among young masters, according to the last facts of the Deustobarmeter. Only 23% of young people think it will be spent before they've been 30 years; even 23% only think they'll find a decent employment; and that it's a problemual problemaciation that makes it a very low number of people who think they'll be happier than their parents. That's when it comes to 13%. And these facts are really criminal, they are very serious, and in front of them it's no use the First Chances or Couperal Plans, very round names and suitable for introduction tapes and headlines, but not efficiently, as the data shows over and over again. And you're going to insist on introducing the same thing for years. But besides, to set such preparations as these, which are to be classed in the way of complementary, depoliticates, partly because it is necessary to appeal to the basis of these problems, because time is exhausted. It's time for a jump, Mr. Urkullu. The situation is serious, and you may say that in some measure you are using this time, trying to justify yourself, but the photograph, the reality, is very clear, and that is why we must give a leap, by significant policies, for the purpose of young men's distraction and happiness. And in this direction, at this time of legislation, the initiative of youth has been brought by the EH collecters to this Chamber, and most of them have been unanimously admitted, but if we examine the course of their execution, it is very little, except for the law of the Young man, and we do not know very well why. We don't know very well, even why, in this report made by my rent to guarantee incomes, our community is the largest limit of access to countries with an income, but in that sense, the report doesn't plan any moderation. A lot of young people who are at the age of 18 and 23 are still out of the system. The Incest of Poverties and Sociality makes it clear that poverty accumulates in the Euscal families, but not only in those which have children of a minor age, but many young men, who are of age, are chained to the poverty of their families. And so, Mr. Urkullu, in order to address and encourage this difficult state of young euplacals in order to promote political competition, EH Collect has proposed to go down to 18 years of the least income to secure incomes, and proposes it. Even so, we extended specific proposals to you in the budget measures: infinite contracts (to keep them for three years) under its compact, and, in any case, overloading the work of 1,200 euros. We also arranged a plan to direct the union of the generations on the table, the measures for homeing the young man, for the preparation of medical investigators for the doctor, and for the purpose of getting a proper job in the research firm, and we'll continue to bring them here, because your plans, the youth Plans, have not given any results. And in that sense, next week, we'll have a plan of impact that will enable EH Collect to end with the prevarication of the young men's structure. We need a plan in this country that will guarantee a decent work to end the structural preparation. And we will also bring here the initiative that will receive other themes from the result of this interaction. But your government, Mr. Urkullu, will continue to do or propose anything new to the risk of losing a whole generation of youth and generation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, from the very beginning of the law, Eukokion has tried to give an answer to the real needs of young people. And these are three privileges which the young see us: employment, education, and dwelling. You will find in the porch the words of the young man all the options that we offer in these three areas. In the forum that I've been able to share in the exams and the young ones, it's obvious that there's a concern about the situation of the job. That's why he's among our priorities, and that's what you're talking about. IV. In the young man's plan, which was the object of managing the different policies that influence young people with a single strategy. It's obvious how young people worry about jobs. The job is our priority, and, as it is well known, the Young Plan has a special axis, you've mentioned it in the production of young people. We must work in order to facilitate our young men's education, and to do so we shall perform our actions on three occasions which we have mentioned: employment, education, and dwelling. The IV Youth Plan has a specific focus on the emancipation and autonomy of youth. Action is being taken in the three nuclear areas most demanded by young people themselves: one, quality education for appropriate training, with the aim of building a better future; better employment or employment to develop a career; and access to housing to undertake an independent and autonomous life project. In this area of emancipation and autonomy, I am particularly concerned with employment. The aim of this legislature is to generate more and better employment. More specifically, it is about increasing employment opportunities for young people, facilitating the first job experience to 20,000 young people. In the area of employment we have set five strategic objectives, 18 lines of action and 42 priority initiatives. Five points of strategic purpose, Mr. Estarrona, are as follows: that from the world of education there should be a shorter and quicker course for the world of work, that the more young should acquire employment of good quality, the better condition of young men, the more active young men, and the young men who are in the danger of retreat. The first aim, then, is that, Mr. Estarrona, it is to be able to make a faster career out of the world of education. We have to work hard to get a shorter time to work from the end of our studies. And because of this, we're working in some deserts, others in preparation for employment, focused on the sense of action and commitment. In addition, we're still at work in the integral development of the highly-prepared system and applying preparation to the application. The first strategic objective, therefore, is to bring the world of education closer and faster to work. The second objective is for young people to have quality employment. The aim is to facilitate early work experiences for young people by encouraging the recruitment of young people in order to improve employment opportunities. And we are working on training aimed at improving employability conditions, training and socio-occupational guidance. The third objective is to improve working conditions for young people. We focus our efforts on information and communication, in order to reduce labour sinestrality, and, in addition, we apply a special focus to the surveillance of occupational health. The fourth strategic objective is to make more young people enterprising. We have strengthened the momentum and support for all entrepreneurship programmes, and we are committed to the extension of entrepreneurial vocations among young people, also supporting social economy initiatives. The fifth objective, Mr Estarrona, is to achieve the employment inclusion of young people at risk of exclusion. This is a strategic objective and certainly one of the pillars to prevent the exclusion of those young people who are at greatest risk. We work individually to improve training and qualification, in addition to specific guidance and support. Mr Estarrona and Mrs Kortajarena, these are five strategic objectives for achieving more and better employment for young people. We are the first to say that there is a long way to go, but it is important, I believe, to recognize the road travelled. At the moment, Mr Estarrona, there are 117,000 people unemployed, of whom 17,000 are under 30 years of age. It's on the way, therefore. But I think it is appropriate to say that the trend is positive. The goal is to offer the first job experience to 20,000 Euskadian kids for 2020 years. Now, during the two years of the legislation, 16,321 young people have taken advantage of one of the programmes that are being developed, and we are able to get the goal proposed, Mr. Estarrona. Therefore I do not agree with what you have said, but shall speak in words what you have said: "The young police who have been designed for so long have failed. It is asserted, therefore, that the efforts of the indirect young policy in order to change the situation are not sufficient for the purpose." I think those words are far from reality, Mr. Estarrona. Look, only six years ago, only six years ago, in 2013, the young man's unemployment was 29%. In 2016, the 23rd, and the year before, 2018, we ended up 16 percent. We've said a dozen times that our goal is to get more and better jobs, even to young people, and we're fulfilling this purpose. With more and better jobs, the housing policy and... ), and we change it. We've deployed aids for renting housing. You mentioned our young friend's program, and we're increasing our rental options through our young friend's program. These programs are in progress, and they respond to the direct and exact demands of the young men. Mr Estarrona, you make statements such as that, for example, by talking about the efforts made in youth policy, you have not been able to turn the situation around, and you are talking about failure. And I insist: I recognize that we have a long way to go, but it would be good for you to also recognize the road travelled. And that path has been taken by society as a whole, because this is a priority for society as a whole, and therefore also for the Government. I agree, Mr Estarrona, that the quality of youth employment needs to be further improved, and that job insecurity needs to be reduced. However, I believe that progress needs to be recognised. Six years ago, as I said, 29% of Basque girls and young people were unemployed. Last year, Mrs Kortajarena and Mr Estarrona, that figure has been reduced by almost half: it is 16%. I say Mrs Kortajarena so I am listening to her speeches on a permanent basis as well. Employment and quality of employment. Quality depends, Mr Estarrona, to a large extent, on the level of training and qualification; that is why we are promoting dual vocational training and extending it to university. And the results, Mr Estarrona, are being positive: the employment rate for young people in vocational training exceeds 85%, and the average time of unemployment among people with vocational training has been reduced to 56 days. On the other hand, the employment rate of university students exceeds 86% today, and the average time to first employment has been reduced to six months. Mr. Estarona, it is not enough, and I confess it: It's not enough, but it's our commitment to keep moving. And I said that there are 17,000 young underlying years in unemployment today, so we have to do more to each other, and our main priority is to help these young people get a job opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Urkullu, for your answer. But I have given you data, and you have only made promises here. The only data... I'm sorry, it's true; I'm not being true to reality. You have given a single data, and it is that of access to employment and the rate of employability, but as for the quality of employment, the quality of employment, you have made no mention of that data, you have given not a single data, because you do not have a single data. And the assessment that you have recently presented in this House on the employment and employability of your employment strategy does not, in that sense, reflect any qualitative index to be able to assess the quality of your employment strategy. Therefore, there are objectives that you say in your word, but which are then not reflected in those plans. No concrete actions are taken to achieve these objectives, and they remain in words only. And, yesterday, when I was preparing the inquiry a little after a day a little tense, it is true that I was saying: how will Mr. lehendakari answer me?". I think it's the first question or question I ask you throughout the legislature – it sounds to me; you have better memory than I do. But he said, "Because I think some self-criticism usually does; there it will." But it is that you have not done any, and it is that you, in that attempt to draw that things are improving, that this government is being effective in the youth policies it is carrying out, have been at a time when it seems to me that you are reading Urkullu's tale in Wonderland. If we look at these facts and examine them, things have not changed since the first time you've been president, but we've got a bit of unemployment, but, as far as quality is concerned, we're getting worse. And there is economic growth, as Mr Azpiazu said, and we are experiencing a phase of economic growth, but inequalities are also growing, and that, in the most disadvantaged sectors of society, has a very direct impact, and the young people in our country are one of those sectors. On September 18, 2012, you made the nomination that would lead you to be lehendakari for the first time. He did it here very close. "You have a very good memory, as I say to you," in El Caminante; I don't know if you'll remember. It was his act there. You presented yourself as follows: "Our first commitment is to implement a youth employment plan. It's urgent. We will put all means into job training, activate internships and training contracts, promote self-employment, offer internationalization scholarships and boost Lanbide. We will commit initiatives to reach 20,000 young people to offer them an answer, to gain access to a job." 2016. Urtean, zure inbestidura-saioan, gauza bera. Bera lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau lau 2018an abiatutako Gazte Planean: "At present, and within the framework of this eleventh legislature, youth policies are a priority for the Basque Government, and as such priority has been set as a second country objective to provide 20,000 young people with their first work experience". A good ruler, Mr Urkullu, is the one who makes the right decisions by adjusting to reality at every moment, and, if you consider that your policies are those that are adjusted at every moment to respond to the real situation of young people, we therefore conclude that the situation in 2012 and 2019 is the same. It is the same, and, therefore, things have not changed. And it is that you again and again strive to raise the same recipes for the same problems. Therefore, you get the same results. And that is why we conclude that the main reason why the situation has not changed is the ineffectiveness of policies aimed at young people. Here, in this Chamber, not long ago, you said, "Stay," and you should choose between the Revolutions, you would go for the "dear." We want to upset the situation of the youngest. Between life and duration, we make choice of life, not of "birth." And we believe that this government is lacking in ambition, and must from this starting from the point of view of a change of ambition and paradigmama, set forth the challenges which this government has within the circle of young men, and we have repeated this here and there. For otherwise plans may be better or worse, but there will be no modification. We've got to end up with the future generation. A leap must be given by significant policies, when the young are designed to give birth to happiness and surrender to happiness. Besides, we think, as it is a challenge of the people, that we ought to be able to come to the subject in a settled and broad manner, as you have said. And that's what we're doing. We hope that you, too, should end by putting it on, and otherwise, as hitherto, the absence and lack of leadership in this government within the circle of youth will be accomplished by us, because we do not wish to condemn our young men to the prevarication, Mr. Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Estarrona, with all due respect and consideration, I believe that having to take care of Mrs Kortajarena has prevented you from taking care of me in all the answers I have offered you, Mr Estarrona, because I have offered you all the information you have and because you have. Anyway, you... Yes, Mr. Casanova? Any questions? Yeah? Yeah... He doesn't write anything to you. - Valerie. However, Mr. Estarrona, the reality you have introduced does not agree with what young people have to convey to us, and that's the important thing. What you have said here is not based on the data, or on the data that is real. The youth of the Basques gives from 100 points to the state of Eucharist 69 to the present day, and to the satisfaction of one's own condition, at 78 points. If we ask for the confidence of the young to look into the future, the score is 74. And the young man's Basque Watchery looks forward The employment rate of young people under the age of 30 is well above the average rate of the general population. And this is not a statement by the Basque Government, Mr Estarrona, but the conclusion of the University of the Basque Country after analysing the situation of young unemployed people in Basque. I would therefore urge that the reality, the objective data be taken into account. Year 2013: 29% of youth were unemployed. Year 2018: unemployment has fallen to 16%. The only failure, Mr Estarrona – and I acknowledge that – would be to think that the problem is solved. And I don't think the problem is solved, much less. Not at all. We need to achieve more and better employment opportunities for young people. Thus, on the other hand, young men are changing, and it is therefore necessary that active policy should be made indirect, adapted to present reality or reality. For this reason, among the prettys that we are developing, it is clear that we must continually improve our enterprises, and we have three parameters on the axis: knowledge, observance and control. Knowledge, the state of population to focus its measurements. A compliment to ensure the efficiency of the measures taken. And the control, besides the measures prescribed, is to determine the propriety of these measures. The programmes we offer or develop from the Basque Government are therefore guided by three parameters: knowledge, execution and control, and always with the aim of continuous improvement. We are aware of the need to adapt all public policies to current times, including youth policies. And adapting policies to new times does not mean that they have failed. Failure, in fact, would occur if we were not able to adapt them to the present time. And I believe that the present time is another time different from the time of the start of the legislature, or the time of the previous legislature. So what we want our young people to have freedom to decide what they want to be and to start the next life project. The object of our government as well is plain: In general, to improve the situation of the young Basques. And don't hesitate, Mr. Estarrona: we will continue to cultivate and to walk on this road, with the greatest possible harmony and harmony. And we are ready to examine all that is here proposed, and to give an answer to this which is a challenge of the people in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the Wild Houseer and Legrand EH Team Members made for the head physician of the Public and Auto-Robernus, about the difficulties in which the staff of the service are concerned." Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u43	Yes, thank you. Good morning, and in particular welcome to the employees of the live people who have come here today to greet you. It's been more than a year since the staff of staff had been in the habit of joining their family and their work, and sometimes since their impotence imposed on them your government, Mr. Erkorene. Until that time, they had a 2010 contract in progress, but your department began to deny the flexibility of entering and going out last March. It was in the circulars of the annual hours that your department received the conditions of hours agreed on the agreement, and the social conditions of the department, as well as the plans for the equality of the planets, which suggested that they should maintain the level of services addressed to the public and to the peoples, without hindrance to the compatibility of their workmen. We agree with the idea of the equality of your department's Plan, but now you've put a problem of management to the rights of workers. That's why we ask you: As you have proclaimed the necessity of regulating personal and laboral life, is it not a contradiction that the workers of the service should put forward the measures of elasticity?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam, it may be contradictory if the difficulties you speak of were true. But it's not like that. Look, this collective has clear, precise, and undeniable measurements of liability, which are agreed on with the unions from top to bottom, negotiated and signed. You have used round words in your speech: But one little thing. What's at stake here has nothing to do with either of them. What is here at stake is much more prosaic and simpler. There's a deal. In this arrangement the exact measures of elasticity are foreseen, i.e., incontestable. There they are. What the administration says is that these are only the prices of elasticity that can be used, and the unions say that, apart from these, others can be used as aditum. And, well, that's judicial, it's in the hands of the courts. Meanwhile, the Administration has offered the possibility of renegation to the unions, if there's a quarrel here, to negotiate at table, and they say that there's nothing to negotiate, they don't want to negotiate. They have to keep an eye on balance here, and they don't want to look after it. Acknowledged, traded and signed moderation, yes, but apart from these, every one wills. And for this purpose, the government must set bounds to the administration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u47	Drifted, Mr. Erkoek. Aren't they filling up and you don't even accept those unions today? That's the problem, you're not filling up the contract in 2010, you're not filling up with the unions. Don't deny it, because it's being that way, and you're forcing me to make a case of justice because you're not being signed. It's a very important service, because it makes a direct and close reception between the administration and the people, and instead of putting them in value with what you're doing, and also saying that the unions don't want to sit down asking for more things, you should really listen to what they're doing, because you seem to live in a parallel world or not to have any good information about your department. You're going straight ahead with all this you're doing and doing now, because in a year there's been a lot of wrong with the workers' conditions. And, fortunately, I should be happy to say to you, this service, which is more and more known, constantly rises, and you again turn the matter to the workers' shoulders, because you are not hiring any one in this service. And, ponposous words? Well, of course, we'll use ponposous words and all that we need. We're talking about equality, because we're talking about a sexized sector, and you're not ready to sit down when it's a feminized sector, because a feminized sector doesn't make so much noise, but you're refusing all these women's flexibility to reduce them to a reduction, and if you've read about that plan of preventioning your salarys, I'm sure you know what they mean in the future. You know what the reduction supposes. Who's taking them? Women. Who's taking them? Women in the live. And I had so many things planned, but, really, I'd like to finish it with one thing. The weaknesses... You say that there is more to be requested, and no, it is a 2010 covenant that they are asking for. And your impossibility was to get a new contract from 2010 to 2019, but after 2010, a timetable agreed on with the unions that had been signed every year, and the flexes came in, and now you're not able to do it, and you've told them you won't accept them again. And in the data you passed us, it seemed as soon as you opened it straight, that the attention was continuous, and we asked you to give us an hour or two, because it's a bit trapped to have a five-and-a-half-hour interval, two hours and four hours. If we check the data, it's another time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your time is up. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseowner, you said this collective is a very special one, yes, and it has a curious schedule, because it is necessary to prepare a reception and to prepare a hours in front of people. But this has its offsets, as you very well know: in salary, they have the highest wages of their rank, which all the rest would like, and the second, at hours of labour: there are fewer 120 hours in the year than all the others, fewer than 120 hours in the year, and a considerable measure of elasticity. There is a special turn, which is called the third round, which has enormous flexibility, and which has from 10:00 to 11. Madam, I have already told you that this matter has nothing to do with equality or conciliation. It is a feminized sector, such as the entire administration, and the general administration in particular, which is also feminized. There is nothing special here that does not agree with the rest of the public administrations. Therefore, this is not an issue – I insist – that has to do with either conciliation or equality. What does have to do with conciliation and equality is the Basque Government's commitment to parental leave, maternity and paternity leave. And, in this regard, yes, I would like to announce that a proposal will be made at the next general table for the equalization of paternity and maternity leave, so that both parents can, in fact, enjoy fully and under the same conditions as the children who are under their care. That is indeed conciliation; that is indeed equality between men and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Public and Autobernus of the United States of the Pacific, Borja Sémper Pacalka Group, the Chief of the Public and Autobernus, on the advance of the possible elections." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies counselors, Mr. Erkoreka, how are you? I was really interested in this question, because, well, you know that, with the demonstrations you made a few weeks ago, opening up the possibility of a hypothetical electoral advance, I don't know if to myself, but yes to strangers surprised and generated an interesting debate or, at least, an interesting surprise in the whole of Euskadi before that hypothesis opened by you. It is true that, a few hours later, even today, the lehendakari himself came to correct him. This is not a criticism of you; perhaps it's almost like corporate sharing between two spokespersons, which sometimes correct us – hey, it's happened to me sometimes. The spokespersons talk a lot, and they have to correct us. You've been corrected. But, beyond these considerations, what I would like to know is why, nothing more and nothing less than you, with the political weight you have in the Basque Government, with your experience, with your long political experience, I don't think you give without thread. And I understand that, beyond other considerations, when you speak and open up the possibility of an electoral advance, you are perfectly aware of the debate that this is going to generate, and I would like to know if you feel so weak as to have to resort to these political strategies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, indeed, you have asked and answered yourself. Article 50 of the Government Act states that the lehendakari may, under his responsibility and after deliberation by the Governing Council, agree to the dissolution of Parliament and call for new elections. Last week, right here, on questions from media professionals, he said that it was not his purpose, at all, to make use of that attribution, which, on the other hand, the law recognizes virtually all presidents of government in parliamentary regimes. The matter is therefore settled. Rome Speaks, Cause Finished Authorization or non-disauthorisation, the matter is settled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u55	Well, this answer makes me more empathize with you, because of your status as an outsider. Look, at a time like the present one, at some political instability in Spain as a whole, at some uncertainty also with regard to the future or even to the present of our political designs, I believe that it is up to you, perhaps, to take a little more responsibility when it comes to manifesting yourself in these terms. We all know the complicated moment that the Basque Government is going through. You made a decision a while ago, and with that decision you generated a political instability in Spain, of which today we are all being pagans. A political instability that has also caused other derivatives, derived like that a few hours ago Mr Otegi announced his willingness, even to contribute, to collaborate in the stability of Spain in the Congress of Deputies. Look where we are. This also causes some uncertainty in the Basque Nationalist Party, as a reference party in Madrid. The political scenario may be subject to a change, but this caused you, that instability and that change in the correlation of forces. Also an instability caused by you exclusively in the Basque Parliament itself. You started the legislature not only with the support of the Socialist Party, which is easy, and it is quite cheap, but you also had the support of the People's Party, and you broke that stability by falling into the arms of Bildu nothing more and nothing less than in designing the bases for a new political status. By the way, where's that paper? Paper, on the other hand, that you pointed out that it was vital in this legislature, the evil so-called memorial paper, also paralyzed. That is to say, your Government, which is born with a vocation of stability, with the will of the opposition groups – at least, of which I am the spokesman – to bring stability, you alone have been responsible for renouncing that stability. And out of those dusts come these muds. There is no legislation, this Parliament does not pass legislation because the government does not have the capacity to push, and I want to use these last few seconds to say the following, Mr Erkoreka. Stability is fundamental to society and our economy, but that stability can only be won or recovered from humility, and the Basque Government, even if it is the PNV, must also have humility, from the country's ambition – I understand that you have a lot of power and are very comfortable, but it takes ambition to face the future with more guarantees – and from the will to have leadership as well, to drive reforms, to seek understanding between different people. The other is self-congratulation. Well, go ahead...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Lord Semper, do not insist; I have already answered you. I have no intention of discussing with you the scope and content of statements that were made in Basque and that you certainly did not understand directly, and that you know them through a rude and manipulated translation. Therefore, I am not going to rule on that particular. On continuity and stability, the lehendakari has made a pronouncement here, in this rostrum, this very morning, which I subscribe, as it cannot be otherwise, from above down. His purpose, his will, his commitment is to continue to negotiate, as hitherto; to continue to rule from stability, from compromise, with understanding with the political forces of the opposition. And humility, see to what extent I exercise it, that you can call me frivolous without any difficulty and I won't answer it, look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "The State of the Portal Government of Pasadena" (the lawmen of the World Series) "to the development of EH and the Commander of the Sub-Separations." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u59	Thank you. Good afternoon. It's not the mood of the Passaian port, Mrs. Tapia, we'd say it's plunged in a chaos. There's a president named M.M. at the head of the Passaian Harbor Authority, but he doesn't seem to be very popular. Indicting her attitudes, eight of ten members of the board of the board have signed a report and sent her to the public ethics committee by sending her to a very urgent charge: irregularity in the contraction of the workmen, in the public contract of arbitrary conduct, in order that the members of the administration should be deprived of information and isolation, and, if that were few, the President was accused of the prosecution of the prosecution of the administration. Considering all this, what, in your opinion, is taking place in the Portuguese command of Pasadena?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u60	Thank you, Madam Mount. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. My dear mountain, as you say, there is noise; it is true. It is another thing, if any one sees irregularity, it is plain where he ought to accuse them. It's also known what charges have been made. But I'd like to put things back where they belong. On the one hand, it is in some degree within the reach of the President, in this case, the organization, modification of the direction, and the application of the quality, and sometimes the disagreement of it, and in this case, beyond the opposition of the workmen and of the President, there is still more noise; it is true. But I must tell you, as far as the President of Pasadena, as the other two administrations, that is to say, from the State docks and from the hiccoughs, that there is will, care, and care to repair all that. More. This same week, the President of the Ports has contacted Osalan to go to Osalan himself and arrange that conflict to take care of him and help him, and he has put it in some way so that he can get his work in. Beyond that, the port's activity continues, the work continues, and I must say, from the last piece of data, for instance, that the traffic of the Passaian port has increased at 11% in the year of March 2018. If therefore there is a conflict of labour, it is true, but the harbour is still at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u63	I think it's a little more than a conflict of work. And you can't deny that this conflict or more than this has influence on the efficiency of the harbour, because you know better than I do, and that it's causing trouble in so many sectors. What surprises me is that my voice doesn't get up hard yet, at least publicly. I believe that in the resurrection of the passian Bay, and in the life of the people who compose it, one must study it. What you are doing is not enough; For instance, the separation of the road to the town of Pasadena and the harbour road, which is not received in the particular plan of the harbour, or of the land in which the port has no use, and not of the use of it for the greatest possible financial profit; or of the fish-lonja, which remains motionless for many years. I can continue to give examples. But we want to point out the strategicity of the Passaian port, by service of a hundred productive ports, due to the influence and weight of the port in the gym economy, and not to the future of the employments which it creates directly or indirectly. But you are the ones who doubt this strategicity. What's your plan for this harbor? What is the paper that the Portuguese harbour should be in our own community? What's your project? Which ones do you count to carry this project? Workers? With the company? The only thing to say and hear about Pasadena in the past few years is the bad and internal situations of the harbour. These tidings are of no avail to the future of the Passaian port, which is already in a disturbing condition. Wouldn't that be behind all that? I mean, you're letting the Pasaian harbor die, and the objective is to shut down the Pasia harbour and bring all the activity to the Guild docks? We hear this rumour over and over again, both from the workers and from the peoples around us. If there is any suspicion, what is your true purpose in the future of this harbour? If it is not so, unless it be to close or let the harbour die, you have something to do. You named Felix Garcia as President of the Passian Portuguese, and, as you put it, you could take him off, or at least to penetrate into the strategic port of Pasadena, you could mark the right direction. So there's something to do. I think much more than the conflict of work, if there is something to be done with that port which is much more difficult.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u64	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u65	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. In a way, Madam Ottamount, you've brought a work problem to deal with the port and, in a way, the strategy. In a way, you tried to confuse two subjects. But for us, the Passaian port is extremely strategic, and we are working on it, and it is also in this that the Passian port itself, because all its workmen have great interest in it, and also those who work in the docks. In that sense, what are they doing to lead the Pasian harbor strategy? Two things. On the one hand, the economic matter, that is, the service of the economic sector, and for that purpose new lands will be placed in the hands of the economy. At this moment, too, there are so many new concessions that we can provide better services to members of the neighborhood, and that will soon be assigned. Lands around Lezo have recovered to make better activity. At this moment, a long-range boats come in, and, well, there are some obstacles in it. He's studying how to fix it so that larger ships can get in, so that he can answer economics. And on the other side is the harbour and the city's relative to the city, we should say that it is near. And you used to mention it yourself. Well, in this case, too, there was a square around the temple, which is for the city, and in this case for St. Peter. And this work has also been recovered, and it is in progress. So I think there are things to say that the harbor is working. And I repeat: The traffic's up 11%. We may, therefore, say that obstacles are hindered, and difficulties are problematic, while the port is going. Can you tell me that he can go by a bigger rhythm? It will be done with everyone's effort. And the work problem, and you can be sure of that, both the administration and the President are deeply involved in repairing the climate and the things that are going on. And for this purpose, Osalan's intervention has been demanded. I think the decision has been taken in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramon Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the economics and the sub-governed department, about the investors who might be in Navalo." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, the chief of the Tapage, well, La Naval, is closed, and the workers are in the street. And the last hope of the workers is mine, the investor that's somewhere else. Besides the other solutions, that's the last hope. But looking at the future, it is our question, seeing what the last investors have done, in order to avoid this evil management, to ask the next investor what security you will arrange for him, so he won't do the same.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u68	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u69	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Becerra, as you mention, not only now, but we've been telling him that at this moment we need an investor to get out of the situation where La Naval is, but not at all; an industrial investor who's going to give the future to the project. And in this sense it is well known that in a state of this kind, when in the contest of creditors there is really an Inverse project, the care, accuracy, and, in some measure, the continuation of the project is made by a concursive administrator, and the judge. So, if that's clear, I'll tell you something else, which you know very well, but which I'm going to repeat, and I'm sure it's ready to be shared with those investors, if it's the least part, in the new project, and in that sense, for the direct continuation. But always consider what private men have said in this case, what they have done, and, in the competition of creditors, concursors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u71	Mrs Tapia, so far you have made a mistake during all these months, years, which is to have a wrong road map. You proposed a road map that involved, first, the appearance of an investor, and, second, public money to support. The reality is that the correct road map is that, first, with public money you buy the assets, then you put those assets at the disposal of an investor. To this day, with its roadmap, there is neither investor nor template. Not one thing or the other. And the second mistake they're going to make now is letting that investor select the market, make it the best bidder. Make him the best bidder. The previous investors found a company with 46 million euros of profit in three years, and 56 million own funds. Three years later, they left a hole of over 100 million euros, the empty box and the staff on the street. They have been reported by minority shareholders for unfair administration, use of privileged information, adoption of abusive agreements, acts against free competition, offence of misappropriation and corporate crime. These were the previous investors. If we want new investors not to repeat the same thing, we need to have guarantees that they will act properly. How is the government going to control that this doesn't happen again? You say, "They're private, and if they don't want to count on us, they won't count," but they're going to make those private investors with the few assets the company has today, which are the land and facilities, and they're going to make them the best bidder, at the lowest price. The only solution to avoid that, to make sure that what has happened is not happening again, even with another staff, is for the Government to bid for those assets, buy them and make them available to potential investors, with conditions to recover them, so that, if the investor fails to fulfil his commitments, those assets, lands and facilities will be recovered. That is what the European Union, the European Commission, is asking, to consider that it is not state aid, that the public investment that you can make in the future is done with guarantees of return, and, if you do not do so, you will never have guarantees of recovering the money you put in. Mrs Tapia, we have lost the staff, we have already lost the auxiliary industry, and if we lose the assets now, this will not only be incomprehensible; it will be unacceptable, it will be unacceptable for a government to leave the same problem, not once, but twice. We are no longer going to come up with any other solution, but at least to do with the assets is the minimum that a government can be required to show a minimum of commitment to industry and the region, to which it has been saying to defend for two years but which so far have done nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Proper or inadequate road map is your opinion, your opinion. That's it. I won't go on. Investors – he tells me – choose them on the market. No, they are not chosen by the market; they are chosen by the competition manager. In a competitive process – not misrepresent – it is carried out, a period is opened in which different investors come to the competitive administrator and make their offer, and it is the competitive administrator, together with the judge, who decides who will be awarded them, not the market. Not at the lowest price, it is not true; account is taken of the price, the commitment of the project, the number of people who will be re-employed. All that is taken into account, and you look at one of the most recent cases and you will observe, and I will even name it: in the case of the creditors' competition in Lagun Artea, there were two very different projects, with very different jobs; one was much higher in price than the other. All you have to do is look at who was awarded. Therefore, let us not falter, because there are realities that make us go where the truth is and not what one wants to say in this rostrum. Previous investors how they acted or didn't act. In a private company, of course, we are going to hold managers, investors, those who exercise their responsibility at the general shareholders' meeting, in all bodies. Of course, because it is your company, and at the moment, the responsibility for you to be in this situation, in a very high part, is of course private investors; of the precedents, of course. And, in this sense, we are advocating a road map that you don't like, you don't have to share it with me, but that right now is the only possible and the only real one. And, by the way, you know very well what Brussels says and does not say, but it is that you have told us by letter, you have told us by letter recently, and you say: "The Commission reserves the right to reconsider the facts – when it has closed the procedure – if new relevant elements arise; in particular, whether authorities or public undertakings would grant new financial resources directly or indirectly to the company La Naval or to another company that acquired its productive assets". I don't think it can be any clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "The Internationale, the Tinisha Guanche Suáz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief of the United States and Society, concerning the euscal system and the dependent condition of social services." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u75	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief officers, good days to all. A great newspaper headline said on March 24th: "The Basque community is the second highest spending per dependent person per year, 8,458 euros, just behind Cantabria." You have uploaded that holder to the official pages of the Government, normally. What they didn't say was that that same report said that in Euskadi, along with Balearics, Catalonia or Nafarroa – in between rubble, because I quote textually – "they most likely give you money to stay at home". Neither did they say that we have three years to solve our waiting list, that there are thousands of people in what they call limbo, who have no services, no benefits. They also forgot to say that, in relation to data from other places in the State with which they usually like to compare because they always win, it is only in direct economic investment in what goes above; high investment, yes; mismanagement, too, Mrs Artolazabal. Big investment, yes, bad management, too. Eukadin's three-year list of waitings must be suffered by people who are in dependence and their families. Thousands of people live in a limbo, and their welfare is left to their money and families. Do you recognize in this that I tell you the difference between the demagogy of the great headlines and the reality of some families? It is becoming increasingly evident that there are two Euskadis, which progresses at two different speeds: a Euskadi for the well-being of a minority, serving the interests of a few, disguised in a large window adorned with great headlines, big events, macro numbers that leave many people behind; an image built, apparently, to remain in power, not for the common good they advocate. There is another Euskadi, an active, solidarity-based woman who is a driving force and protagonist in the conquest of rights, the one who advances through the push of young people, who are involved in climate change; the one of women, who go out massively on the street; the one of older people who defend pensions; or the one of workers in La Naval, who fight for the maintenance of employment. That is the Euskadi of certain neighbourhoods or regions, of certain areas of our society, which does not have the same opportunities, which does not enjoy the same rights, which has worse services and which is not one of the priorities of the Government, and which, Mrs Artolazabal, I want to talk about today, of the Euskadi that you never remember when you have to make strategic decisions, redistribute wealth or ensure the quality of life. I want to talk to you about the Euskadi where there are people who, in order to get ahead, have to make a huge effort, not because they lack resources, but because there is a management that can be improved at least. It is clear that this mismanagement, in which, for example, in Basquedi, dependent people and their families find barriers, confusion, ignorance, misinformation, waiting lists and, in return, some aid to ensure that, I insist, we take care of ourselves at home without making noise, or we stay on a waiting list and we do not access benefits or services in the so-called dependency limbo. I would like us to speak today in a sincere dialogue, with an honest intention of improving that Euskadi, because I trust the words that Galeano said ("we are what we do to change what we are"), and from there I ask you, Mrs Artolazabal: in the government of the common good, are they in line with how the system of dependence progresses? According to the Business Centre for the Care of Persons, little suspected of being against the Government or in favour of Elkarrekin Podemos, there are 78,811 persons recognized as dependents, of whom 13,794 are in the limbo of the unit, persons who have been valued, are recognized to have a need, but are not given access to any services or services. According to the IMSERSO, we talk about 8,374 people diagnosed as dependents in the first degree, and 5,420 in degrees 2 and 3. This, in Araba, for example, means that there are 115 people waiting to be paid for a service, and 127 at home waiting for a psychiatric residence; in Gipuzkoa, 836 people, of whom more than 300 are totally dependent; in Bizkaia, according to the Social Action MP, there is no waiting list; there is a process of reassignment of places, and there are no numbers anywhere. Is it because people are told that they have to choose between nothing or everything? Is it because they are only given the benefit if they give up waiting to assign a place? We have been able to access some data, which in itself is already a data, but according to these reports, do you know how much it is estimated that at the current rate it would take Euskadi to respond to all the demands and dependents on the waiting list? Three years. Three. During these three years, who's in charge? If they have not realized, whether they like it or not, families, in particular women, who must make great efforts in money, in time, in tasks, in never being able to stop for their families to have worthy attention. Is this fair? Is this the good management you always talk about? I keep making sure they don't cheat. In the Euskadi of both speeds, there are 22.9% of people who request dependency and are not valued, data that we have found thanks to our presence in the institutions, but that are not public anywhere, at least that allows you to make a global view. As I say, the lack of data is also a data. Of these 442 people who, for example, were rejected in Bizkaia in 2017, only five were due to non-compliance. According to the Unit's State Observatory, in 2018, Euskadi was above the state average in denials. I insist, is this good management? I'm going on. As you are well aware, the Unit Act establishes a catalogue of services and resources in which there are financial benefits; specifically, the provision for care in the family environment, which is regulated in article 14, which expressly states that it must be granted on an exceptional basis. And what do we find? 33,674 financial benefits for family care. Do you know how much there is in other areas? Not much more than 7,000; for example, with home help sessions or places in day centres. That is, money for people to stay in the private sphere is a reality. In fact, all the reports coincide: the policies of dependence in Euskadi, even being at the head of social expenditure in dependence, are ineffective. Specifically, by investing almost a 10, a six is covered. I insist, good management? I go on, because it's not the only thing. What happens to the right to equality recognized for all Basque citizens? I read a sentence that is repeated throughout various reports: "In the Spanish State there is only one Unit Law, and yet 19 models of care, 16 autonomous communities and the three historical territories in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country". I know, Mrs. Artolazabal, that Basques like to be different and make a difference. But, honestly, do you consider that this can – albeit a little – violate the right to equality? Because you won't have the same resources if you live in Gasteiz, Zornotza or Pasaia. I'm convinced. I wonder what role you, that the Government that must release these services is playing as the ultimate responsible, how it assures Basque citizens that right to equality. And I'm about to finish. The main concern of citizens in Euskadi is employment. Normal. Do you know how much return, how much money, how many sustainable and desirable jobs for a first-rate Euskadi are letting them go down the drain, Mrs. Artolazabal? Do you know how many? I'll tell you. Today, according to the Unit's Observatory, there are 32% jobs created in this area, jobs that are not only desirable, because they are aimed at caring for and caring for all of us, but they are sustainable. It is a job that does not pollute and, above all, it is a job that is neither displaced nor is at risk of suffering from any OPA by any multinational. However, and although there is not a single political reason to oppose job creation in caring for people, we are quite behind communities such as Castilla and León, Extremadura or Madrid in job creation. It turns out that when they negotiate the Cup, which nobody understands, because it is not transparent, we never hear anyone from the PNV say that they are negotiating to create jobs in the area of dependency. Because, for example, if they had negotiated those EUR 24 million that these years accumulate from cuts in the State Pact by the Unit and that since Euskadi had been sold as assumed by the deputies, at least 771 new direct and desirable jobs would have been created. 771 jobs that you have decided to stop creating, and that means that more than 3,000 people could have been cared for today. Catastrophy? No, no, An invitation to move on to action, because, as I said at first, Mrs Artolazabal, we are what we do to change what we are, and therefore I hope that, now that you say you are concerned about co-responsibility and care, this area also comes to be a priority, beyond the great headlines, because Basque citizenship does not deserve a Euskadi in two times or at two speeds. Podemos does not wish to separate two, three, or four Basques from each other, but a single Basque, whose rights, equality, justice, and mutual life, will continue to work firmly in all the institutions. We want to build the common good, truly and conscientiously. That is why we ask you: in the framework of the social services system, what plans do you have from the Government to improve the care of the thousands of dependent people living in Euskadi? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u77	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. I do not know what Euskadi lives in, Mrs Guanche; of course, it is not what others see and to which they approach to learn and improve in their autonomous communities and in their cities. Euskadi stands out positively in his model of care for dependent people, both in his investments and in his management, despite what you have wanted to move here this morning. From the Basque administrations we have allocated, as I was saying, 8,458 euros per person, only exceeded by Cantabria with those 8,650 euros, as reflected in the Gerokon report to which you refer. In recent decades, especially in the last 15 years, Basque social policies have stood out for their initiative in rights, resources, services and dependency care as well, along with benefits. But we also know that there is no social construction without social cohesion, and there is no cohesion unless we treat dependent people with justice, dignity, quality and warmth. And that's what we're doing here in Euskadi. Attention to dependency is a challenge for Euskadi, and therefore our policies are based on active ageing, inclusion, good governance, full participation and maximum comfort for dependents. And this is an objective and observable fact, Mrs Guanche, but we want to move forward and constantly improve. We are collecting and materializing the new paradigm in which we move. And to do this, we plan, focusing on the person, on his quality of life and on ethics, on the management of all our resources. The normative framework is the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Dependent Persons, as well as the Euskadi Social Services Act. It responds to the challenge of meeting the needs of people with special vulnerability and who require support to achieve greater integration and better care. In both the average expenditure per dependent and per inhabitant, Euskadi is in the first position of expenditure of the State, as a result of the service component, which is economically more expensive, Mrs Guanche, because in Euskadi people working in social resources are better paid, and because the coverage rate is also higher than that given in other autonomous communities. The interpretation that the Basque Government and the outside parliaments make of the Unit Act is unique and joint. We have competence in the social field, and that is why we organize and manage in a coordinated way. And we do so from our Social Services Act and from the Basque Social Services System Portfolio and Benefit Decree. You have referred to one of the reports prepared by Gerokon for CEAPs, which comments and evaluates policies related to care for the unit. And that report puts Euskadi well. Another series of reports and other indexes, such as that of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, a prestigious and also recognized entity in the sector, are also carried out, and their study is the only one that has an annual character, which measures and evaluates the development of the structures and budgets of the system of care for the unit. And that report, which has been made since 2012, considers that Euskadi stands out in all social services, obtaining the score of excellence. The coverage of the unit in Euskadi in 2017 increased from 8.6% of the population to 10.6%, when the state average is 8.5%. This shows the efforts made by the Basque Government, the three outlaws and the municipalities in the area of social services. And I say this so that we take into account that the level reached in Euskadi is much higher than the average, according to the data of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. Another area in which the President herself of the Business Circle for the Care of People, to which you refer – this report – stresses the importance or importance of enhancing social and health coordination, and in Euskadi we are on it. And it has been put, as you well know, the electronic medical record in residences, the electronic prescription in residences. We have a Social and Health Strategic Plan 2017-2020 in which these initiatives are being prioritized. We consider it essential and strategic to develop this coordination, as it results in substantial improvements in the quality of life of people aged in Euskadi. Funding determines the ratios of the system, as you well know, being a reflection of the bet that is made here on the priority that is given to attention to dependency, and, as I told you before, we invest because we pay better than elsewhere. And Euskadi for us is a priority, and the people who live in this country, too. Gipuzkoa, for example, is in the first place in the state, marking a huge distance from the rest. As for the local social services network, there is one professional in the Basque Country for every 1,943 inhabitants, compared to 2,436 on the state average. The expenditure on social services per inhabitant in Euskadi is 611 euros compared to 251 in Valencia or 392 in Aragon, two and three times more, as the case may be. Some reports generalize and affirm, such as that of Gerokon, that there is the problem that the public administration that pays for services is not the one that recovers returns, and that in Euskadi does not happen, because we have competence in fiscal matters. But the study does not take into account Basque exceptionality, because we do recover those returns, and in much of the report we are not reflected. Euskadi has an excellent score in his attention task (7.5 points out of 10), and is the only community that gets it. That says a lot and well about the management carried out here, but, still, Mrs Guanche, we have a long way to go. The good health of care for dependence in the Basque Country is evident, but we still have much to go on. He asked me about the Government's plans to improve the situation of dependent individuals and groups. It's something we've been working on since the start of the legislature. We have promoted the Decree of Residences for Older Persons, we are working on a strategy of caregivers, we will promote a new decree of teleassistance, and, from the socio-health point of view, we are developing, as I said, the strategic lines contained in the Social Care Plan 2017-2020. This is a bet based on a strong consensus within a complex network of expertise such as ours, and at the moment we are defining the decree of social and health governance. This report covers new technological innovations in the field of tele-assistance. If from the reading of that report you have highlighted things, it should also be stressed that one of them is that it is underdeveloped and that, in addition, new technologies must be implemented in the area of dependence to improve the quality of service. And Euskadi is a pioneer in that, as you well know, and we are in the process of digitizing the former analog system of the betiON teleassistance service. For this reason, and despite the good situation shown by the various indicators and reports that have been drawn up, not only by Gerokon, which, by the way, we do not transfer any information to the media. – I don't know where the headline came from, nor where the information came from, but it wasn't us, Mrs. Guanche – our commitment is to continue moving forward, counting on all those data, reports and qualified opinions that contribute to improving our dependency service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u79	Well, let's split it up, I've got a lot of papers on the table. You do not know what Euskadi lives in; that is why I say that sometimes it is obvious that there are two Euskadis, in two speeds, in two realities. I, as you know, am a social worker in training, and in addition, in these weeks before this inquiry I have been asking professionals in the sector, who, fortunately, I know quite a lot. This information is contrasted, and I have not only taken the CEAPs report from reference; I have taken the one from the observatory that you also named; I have also taken the Imserso report, and I have also been taking the IDEC report from reference. That said, what is obvious is that you do not see what you do not want to see. It is a legitimate position – I won't be the one to tell you – but let them know that, even if they don't see it, they are leaving people on the way. You say there are data that stand out; indeed. I will contrast one of them, if I find him – here, yes. This is the route in the chaos of dependence. On this route Euskadi is named in four steps. The first, the one I've named before, to say that they most likely give you a little money and stay at your house. The second, to say that the service most provided is tele-assistance, a service which is then defined in the report as reducing and preventing the creation of jobs. The third, in which more money pays for administration, I have not taken away the merit in that; now neither do you boast the merit of being the one who pays best as if it were by divine inspiration from the government, because you – and I take back the previous speech – pay more because here there are people who defend dignity and quality in jobs. The fourth time it is named, speaking of where more work is created, says textual: "Where more work is created with the same money, where more attention is devoted to dependence is in Castile and León and Extremadura, more than double that in Navarre or Basque Country". So, I'm not inventing the data, Mrs. Artolazabal. I look at the global: what is right is well-recognized; what is wrong must be acknowledged wrongly, because, if not, we will not be being honest and we will not be improving. You tell me about economic efficiency. I will read you a part of the report of the Observatory of Social Services Managers, which you have appointed in your speech: "We must take into account the obvious fact that a higher volume of public expenditure does not necessarily imply doing it better. It thus denotes investment will, but the efficiency of public spending is a factor that would require measurements beyond the mere aggregation of euros. It wouldn't be bad for someone to do that kind of analysis especially in the communities. self-sustaining regions that have the most expenditure and where there is a lower efficiency of resources." I am not inventing this; I am reading it textually from the report. All right, let's move on. You move me that here you create jobs and you create quality. For every 100 euros of public expenditure in dependency in 2018, 40 euros were recovered directly. The key is in the model of services and services for optimizing public spending. The key difference is that if you invest in helping people stay at home, that doesn't come back. It does return, in those 40 for every 100 euros, but it does not return to job creation nor does it return, of course, as care. You talk to me about excellence; I'm sorry, but I deny you the greatest. Tell me about sufficiently funded resources; don't tell me about efficiency or excellence. You tell me about socio-health coordination, a space where jobs are being destroyed right now, or, for example, where there was not a single target in the previous evaluation of the strategy for target groups. You tell me that they are not reflected in much of the report, and this is the usual thing in your government; they are only reflected in those things where they go well. Well, I'm sorry, Mrs Artolazabal, but, as the Social Services Act says, you have the mandate of normative development and direct action in social services. For the purposes of this Act, direct action means the competence to execute services and services. And you, whether you like to see it or not, have to do something to ensure that the attention to dependence guarantees equality for the recognized right of this country's citizenship, and you have to do something to solve those three years on average that we would take at this rate, and with the automatic march that you have put on, to solve all those people who are right now in limbo having a recognized right. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u81	Mrs Guanche, we do not invest to keep people at home, but we invest to provide them with the best resources and resources that provide them with the highest quality. Because, as you well know, and you also know, as I do, because I am not a social worker; I am an economist, but I also relate to social workers and professionals working in the social field, because it seems that you are the only one who has that power. People want to be in their homes. And we know that every time you ask and survey older people: they want to be in their homes, and for that, what we have to do is offer them resources, offer them benefits,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u82	Miss Guanche, please listen to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u83	... offer them services so that people can be where they want to be. And teleassistance is an example of that, because we are also giving these people security so that they can do what they want. It's always good to analyze with discretion, Mrs. Guanche. I have appreciated various data, which, in general, make positive and recognize the work being done in Euskadi, which seems to bother you. According to official Imserso data, which I also have, of course, as it could not otherwise be, in February 2019, the number of requests for valuation of the unit in Euskadi amounted to 102,485 people, out of 101,923. In other words, 99.45% of the people obtained an assessment decision. And that is done, therefore, for virtually all applications. Of those resolutions, 78,293, of the total number of persons entitled to benefit, with some degree of recognized dependence, accounted for 77 per cent of the resolutions. And, for my part, I recognize that we have a lot of work to do. But, man, it would also be good if you recognized all the work we have been doing, not only in this legislature, but for many years now. A path that has taken society as a whole, as it is a priority for all, Mrs Guanche. Social policies in this country are a priority from the social point of view, from the educational point of view and from the point of view of health. A total of 64,499 persons are in practice beneficiaries of a total of 83,691 benefits, with a ratio of 1.3 benefits per beneficiary. And outside bodies are an example to follow, both in the professional assessment of the unit and in the quality of its professionals responsible for the control and inspection of the centres, in the number and quality of resources they offer and finance. By the way, a situation that we repeatedly demand in the Ministry is that the deputies are the ones who are taking on the majority of the expenditure in dependence in Euskadi, far beyond the 50% that corresponds to them. And this, as you well know, has its origin in the reform that took place in 2012, in which the State ceased to make its commitment to financing the minimum level, and that concerted level disappeared. The contribution at this time by the State does not exceed 20 %, when it should be 50 %. And, as I mentioned earlier, within the other generalities that appear in the report and that do not belong to the Basque reality, it is that of teleassistance, since in Euskadi it constitutes an international reference in the model of teleassistance to dependence, and we are incorporating those new technologies that appear in the report that we have to do. We are incorporating, therefore, digitisation centered on the person, and this has been recognized from the Cabildo de Lanzarote, which we were with them this week, to governments such as Scotland, Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Chile, Alsace, or technicians of the European Union itself, as well as the Imserso. Our department, therefore, is the holder of the betiON service. It was working on that socio-health care approach, in which coordination between social and health services was very important. The fact that in the different Euskadi reports it gets a high score and is placed in the top rankings of good attention to dependence highlights the commitment made by Basque institutions. And this is not self-congratulation, Mrs Guanche, which, as we have seen, we still have work ahead of us. But it is true that many things are being done and many things are being done well. I insist, we have a way to go, but we also have an important way to go. And it is true that not everything is done with money – this I have repeated many times – and that we need to know how that money is spent. And it is true that we have to do an analysis of the efficiency of income and the investment that is made in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies of Julen Bollain Urbieta Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Eplegus and Society, about the handsomest of the young." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Artola generous, good morning. Well, as you know, I'll give you an interpenetration on the influence of the Basque Fairies on the young people of our town, and I think it's important to let you know that from the beginning there's a serious situation in which young Basques are suffering, which can't be studied by any means with a narrower glance, but with a broad glance. And let me talk to you today as part of that generation that we have a feeling that they're stealing our future. We were born in the most prosperous Euskadi, we are the best prepared generation, and yet our expectations are far worse than those of our parents, mothers, and they are also worse than those that were just 10 years ago. The expectations of young people have been abducted in Euskadi, because precariousness is installed in all areas of our lives and, even more so, in the areas of women's lives. Being young in Euskadi means uncertainty, basically: if we can pay for our studies, if we get a shit job tomorrow or if we never get it, if they throw us out because someone with full pockets says we get expensive, if we can emancipate, or if we can form a family. The difficulties faced by young people in developing a life project are undoubtedly structural. It is not the economic situation or the current labour market, because, before the crisis, high youth unemployment, the temporary nature of contracts and the difficulty of accessing housing were already there. And the only response on the part of the institutions is youth policies that have barely been able to put small tiritas in order to try to reverse some of the negative consequences of a system that bleeds from above. And I'm sure you're going to talk to me about the plan of turning around a young man who's only got seven people and used to show up on the budget, or you're going to tell me about the first program that encourages the youth's preparation in public money. But this only confirms that you have no project for young men, and that this government can only give an answer to a serious and spontaneous state, without understanding that every decision received in the council affects us directly. Let me remind you, Mrs Artolazabal, that we are young people, we are part of this society, and yet 95% of the policies of this government harm us or, at best, ignore us, putting the conditions for being young in Basque is a situation of economic and social risk. The political decisions that have been made – the cuts, the dismantling of social services or labour reforms to make the labour market more flexible – have made today's young people, that my generation have no real prospects of having a life project that matches the opportunities offered by Euskadi. And the reality, Mrs Artolazabal, is that in 2019 they are still trying to patch up a structural situation, using the same recipes that have proven to be a real failure. Have you ever wondered, Mrs Artolazabal, how we have come to this situation? Have you ever looked at the root of the problem, rather than the tip of the iceberg, Mrs Artolazabal? Because there are no easy solutions to difficult problems, and therefore there is a need for a change of focus to this patch policy, and for a review of the impact of policies in general on youth. Has your Government considered how the privatization of public schools by that Government affects young people? Has anyone from the Government stopped to think about how it makes it difficult for young people to be emancipated by the sale of public parks and the inefficient housing policy of this Government? Do you take into account, Mrs Artolazabal, the number of young people affected by income-guarantee cuts and how they impact on the emancipation of young people? Does your Government have data on how many young people, despite having the necessary training, will have to work in tourism or in hospitality, because your Government's industrial policy continues to destroy quality employment? When the essential law of climate change is postponed over and over again, when Euskadi still does not face the inevitable energy and ecological transition that our economy needs, have you protested in your Government to prevent sustainable sectors and jobs of the future from being a reality in the present? If this Government is willing to keep unchanged sectors that will not exist in 20 years' time or that, at best, will be in decline, and again and again postpones and slows down the necessary transformation of our industry and of our productive fabric to the climate, technological, social and distributive challenges of the twenty-first century, it is giving way to the future of an entire generation, because we will be late, fast, running and without planning for a transition that is inevitable and that will penalize countries that are lagging behind. Madam Artola generous, do you know that the inequity of the present stock of this government will judge us young men in the future? For we are not ourselves, nor are generations to come, which cause trouble; ye are. It is you who have been making decisions in this country for more than 30 years, who have built a wall that young people cannot jump, or at least not all young people, because it is once again up to us to remind you of the two-speed Euskadi that you are building. The opportunity to develop your vital project depends, to a large extent, on the resources of your family and the neighborhood or region in which you are born. Take a walk with me for (...), where I live; take a walk for Enkarterri, for Oarsoaldea, for Ezkerraldea and ask how and, above all, what young people under the age of 30 live about, and do not laugh, Mrs Artolazabal, because this is not funny, it is not funny this. His Government was very comfortable in that model. They are conservative by nature, and immobilism, their little audacity to read the future that has touched us is mortgageing the future of Eusakdi and, especially, the future of its younger people. And that is why we are asking you today, Mrs Artolazabal: what assessment do you make of the impact of the Basque Government's policies on youth? Because, unfortunately, I have to tell you that this government does not make political and economic decisions thinking about the consequences they have for young people and for our future. You have given up legislation for today laying the groundwork for tomorrow, because short-term, electoral tyranny and lack of vision and project for the future make your Government's decisions focus on maintaining the current situation, the status quo. However, they forget to build a present and a future in which young people can develop our life project, and that is why we need a country project that does not forget us, that does not forget young people. We need a country project where we are part of and we are being taken into account, a country project which, unfortunately, you do not have, because you are not able to understand that any structural decision, any policy of this government has a real impact on the lives of young people, from industrial policy, climate or infrastructure – it doesn't matter to me, anyone – and this has a name on its part: mismanagement. And that is why we are going out to the streets and demanding that future that belongs to us and that you are denying it to us with your policies, so that you, who have been in charge of this country for decades, listen to us and act at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u87	You've left, Mr. Bollain, the pen. I used to tell Mrs Guanche that it seems that they are the only ones who want to work and fight and that they care about social policies, and it seems that you are the only one who cares about the policies that young people have or need in this country, and the others do everything against it, we do not plan or political decisions we only do to annoy. Well, that's what you told me, and that, besides, that's all a real failure. Well, when I continue with my speech, I will try to transfer to you the objective data of what is happening in Euskadi with the young people, who, of course, I have very clearly that we have to keep improving and that there are circumstances that we have to attend to. But if we have been ruling the party to which I belong for more than 30 years in this country, it will be because someone has voted for us, Mr Bollain, and this is democracy, that when they go to vote now, on 28 April, they will know who they have to vote for, and when they go on 26 May they will also know who they are going to vote for, and there we will all portray ourselves and there we will each go by putting on the table what policies are, what are the objectives and what citizens think about them. It seems, according to the polls, that what we are doing to people likes and is giving results; with this, we will see. We'll see each other on that exam that we'll all have, you and us, soon. What we, within youth promotion policies, are asking, and the question you ask me, directly, about what we value, then, is that they are effective – everything can be improved. But, of course, they are effective and positive, because there have been changes in the situation of young people, because, moreover, they themselves say, that there is a better situation and that, therefore, they are with a more favorable expectation. And we all do this in a joint way within what is the Government, agglutinated, as it moved in the Commission, on the basis of a Plan Gazette, that IV Plan that we have promoted for young people, which is the instrument that aggregates the various measures that the Government is developing to improve the situation of young people in Euskadi. We have different initiatives, with five strategic axes, 10 areas of work, 60 lines, etc. And for this they are working more than 39 directions of this government and of all entities, from the point of view of industry, education, health, culture, social policies, in a coordinated way. An effort has also been made to ensure that all these lines of work are aligned with the 2030 sustainable development goals set by the United Nations, and that is where we stand. And we are aware that the crisis has affected the young collective more directly and that the post-crisis situation is going to be different from what we have known so far. Because the rest of us have young people, too. I also have a daughter who is going to be 19 years old, and I hope that she has a promising future in this country; that, if she has to go out, that she goes out to learn, to train, both as a person and at a professional level, but that she then turns her knowledge back to Euskadi. And for that, we are trying to implement policies, so that young Basques have jobs and quality jobs that allow us to continue to grow as a country, to help this country have that welfare state that we have acquired and that we want to continue to maintain. We are now, as I said, in an economic recovery, and the gross domestic product seems to have a positive and sustained trend. Full-time equivalent jobs have increased by 2.4% over the same quarter of the previous year, and the data are positive, but the reality, as I told you, is going to be different from what we had in 2008. And the challenge we have is that the measures we design are effective for that new reality. From the employment point of view, we note that the unemployment rate in the young population, although low, is still not in the indices we would like it to be in. The year 2018 has ended with an unemployment rate of 15.5% for young people between 16 and 29 years of age, and in the age group between 30 and 34 we find an unemployment rate in the year 2018 of 13%. It should also be said that Euskadi is one of the autonomous communities with the lowest youth unemployment rate. And, on the other hand, the long-term unemployment rate among young people, which indicates the percentage of the working population aged between 16 and 29 that takes more than 12 consecutive months, has been halved between 2015 and 2018; in 2015, that rate was 10.7%, and in 2018 it is 5%. More than half in three years, Mr. Bollain. Part-time employment is more widespread among young people than in the employed population (17.7%), and in recent years this gap has been widened. And I recognize that, and that's where we have a problem where we're working with the different social partners. But, as I have already mentioned on another occasion, we, apart from creating jobs, want that job to be of quality. In 2018, less than half of the youth aged 16 to 29 were part of the working population. There is one positive thing: the difference between the rates of men and women is minimal: 47.9% for men and 47.5% for women, as far as the labour force is concerned. The activity rate of the whole population of Euskadi is 56,5 % in 2018, and, contrary to what happens to the young population, has remained stable over the last 10 years. Between the ages of 30 and 34, the situation varies substantially, and we find that most of the people in this group are part of the working population. In 2018, the activity rate of the collective between 30 and 34 years is 90.6%. Another aspect that we work on in the Gazte Plana is that of training. Youth occupation increases with the level of education achieved, and the percentage of young people working is higher among those with higher education, university or higher education. This percentage, on the other hand, is lower among those who have completed secondary education, high school or middle school, or among those who have only compulsory education. The indicators for the level of training are therefore also positive. Euskadi also has a drop-out rate below the target set in the Europe 2020 strategy. This target was set at 10%, and the indicator in Euskadi is set at 7%. And on the educational level in Euskadi, 55% of people between the ages of 30 and 34 have higher education, when in Europe of 28 the indicator is 39.9%. We therefore have a highly qualified youth. Moreover, according to the data analyzed, young people in Euskadi, if they are not working, are studying, and that favors employment opportunities. And almost 9 out of 10 young people are very or quite satisfied with the life they lead, slightly more satisfied than people over the age of 29 and the previous measurements. Young people therefore believe that they are better than a few years ago. The higher degree rate in Euskadi is very high, as I told you, close to 50%, and in recent years the knowledge of Basque youth has also increased slightly. The average wage of young people has risen in 2017 and slightly exceeds 1,000 euros, although there we also have an important challenge. Employment among those working has increased: 6 out of 10 young people with employment have a job related to their training. With regard to emancipation and housing, which we are also concerned about, the age of emancipation of the youth of Euskadi is 29,6 and the rate of emancipation between 18 and 34 years is 37,9 %. And the main difficulty in achieving this emancipation, the emancipation of young people, is undoubtedly the shortage of housing, having to allocate 52.6 % of the wage for the purchase of the same, or 69 % for the rent. And, among young people, the rental option has grown considerably in recent years, to become the most demanded option when it comes to emancipation, and there, from the Housing Department, they are being implemented with the Gaztelagun programme and another series of proposed initiatives to encourage Basque youth to emancipate. The percentage of young people in economic distress has also fallen, and, in the area of social action and equality, the majority of young people depend economically on their family, and only a quarter of young people claim to be economically independent. And that's something we really need to keep insisting on. Since 2008, the percentage of young people with an interest in politics has doubled, and that is a good thing. In the area of the environment, sustainability-oriented practices have increased, and that is also positive, and therefore the trends in the indicators I have summarized are positive. We still have many challenges to focus our attention and efforts on, and, through collaboration and coordination among government departments, we are implementing these measures. The indicators I have transferred to you show the positive impact these measures are having, although we still have a long way to go in the area of emancipation, in the area of housing and in the area of the quality of employment, but the data...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u88	Your time is up, I'm sorry. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u89	Mrs. Artolazabal, once again, you do not disappoint. You're not listening to me, like you're not listening to the youth of this country. We young people have a voice and vote, and it would be important to pay attention and interest, and also to see the data from the April 28 vote, review them on 29 and see how we voted for the young people in this country, and how their party stands still. But it's just that you're pure thresholdism. I have come here to talk about my book, nothing more, because today, however, I had to answer my question, a very simple question: what do you assess the impact of the Basque Government's policies on youth? Not what assessment you make of youth policies. They're two very different things. And that is precisely the problem, that you do not understand that. I said this in my first speech: we will only ensure a future for the young people of our country when the impact of these on young people and the future we have to live in are taken into account in each and every political decision taken. And this is far from what your Government is doing today, as you yourself have made very clear. Economic, employment, industrial, infrastructure or social services policies also have an impact on us, and that must be taken into account. This Government does not do so, because it does not understand. But it is also that the fact that this system turns our backs on young people has another consequence: the removal of young people from politics, the disaffection and the lack of citizen participation, because we do not feel represented by current policies. Because it is clear that these policies are building a world that does not look like anything young people want to live in: a feminist world, sustainable, solidarity, a world respectful of diversity. Look, on April 7, 2011, the collective Youth Without Future shouted slogans like "we're not leaving; we're being kicked out", or "without home, without a curry, without a pension", "youth without fear", "recovering our future", "this is just the beginning", they said. And it is that, almost eight years later, on March 15, 2018, and after the dissolution of Youth Without Future, it is shown that, unfortunately for us, for young people, this was only the beginning, and they force us to continue to demand our future. That Friday, March 15, 2019, more than one and a half million students went on a climate change strike in 125 countries on all continents. On that day it was again shown that youth is not represented by the actions carried out by the public authorities, and on that day the youth of the whole world demonstrated that it does matter what we do and that no one is too small to be able to make a difference. Climate change, equality policies that perpetuate gender roles, cuts in social services, or an economic policy that leaves our industry to die while it pits young people with impunity are central to young people's increasingly blackening our future. Because my generation is still unemployed, with shit jobs everywhere, without access to a decent home, without being able to leave for 15 days on vacation, and thousands of people packing their bags and being forced into exile to seek their lives. And the situation is already untenable, because there is no country project that will allow you to see the light beyond the tunnel. Because we all have a future to live, although, unfortunately, those who today have to start their 20-year life project have a much more uncertain future than those who face it like me at the age of 29, or even more uncertain than those who face it at the age of 50. And so, Mrs Artolazabal, we need a long-sighted country project that you do not have; a country project that is based on the fact that the decisions of the present are also valid within 10 years; a country project that moves away from short-sightedness, electoral tyranny and a lack of political vision. In short, we need a country project that offers us a dignified future for young people, because the public policies of this Government abduct us from any expectation of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u91	Well, I believe in this country, I believe in the young people of this country, I believe in the future of this country. And, of course, this Government is concerned about the issues of greatest concern to young people in this country. But we must continue to improve and continue to work, and we are doing so with the young people of this country, as it could not be otherwise. And I am talking about the Plane Gazette because I understand that it is the plan that this Government has put in place, cross-cutting, in which all areas of concern to young people are working, so that they can offer a more promising future. We have improved the quality of youth employment and we are also trying to work to reduce that precarious job that is and is so concerned about us. And we have a long way to go, of course, but we have also made significant progress in this legislature. And for us Basque youth is a priority, Mr Bollain. Already in 2019, we have a Basque youth similar to the most advanced in Europe, and for us it is a pride. Our youth reduces weight in the population pyramid, it is true, as in the whole advanced world. It studies above mandatory levels, emancipates later, has good health, but is also committed to social participation and volunteering. And I told him in the first intervention that the young Basques right now have a... They're more concerned about politics than they were a few years ago. So, I don't know, you don't know what that means. We have just analyzed it in the diagnosis of the situation of the youth of Euskadi, and, from the Department of Employment and Social Policies, we develop programs such as the Youth Guarantee, the Lehen Aukera, the Youth Return, the Hezibi, the collaboration with universities, Gazte Empresa, entrepreneurship, relief contract, training for young people of low qualification, the return to training for employment... We had a goal of giving 20,000 opportunities to young people, and we have already given over 16,000, Mr Bollain. And they are all aimed at facilitating their emancipation. The Aurrera Begira report highlights that it improves the appreciation of the present by our young people, them and them. It is a survey that is done to young people, and young people have said that they are better today in Euskadi than they were a few years ago. His fear of having to travel in a forced way to work elsewhere, as has happened with young Basques at one time. Our youth considers that their family and health are also among the best of their lives, but they have logical doubts about the future, employment and money. But they also say that they rely more on their capabilities and increase their expectations of emancipation. And, fortunately, his expectations of fit work have increased by 30 points in just five years. And these are objective data, Mr Bollain. The confidence rate in the future of Basque youth has risen by 10 points in just two years, and this is what they say, and, logically, those who are better prepared have a better outlook and a better future, and that is therefore what we are working on. Lanbide's study of integration into working life places the employment rate of the university system in more than 10 points than five years ago, with an average initial salary of more than EUR 1,521. And, therefore, this is also an objective fact. The young Basque university students are in a better position to find a job than they were five years ago. And Lehendakari said it before: in 2013, youth unemployment in Euskadi was 29%, and today that unemployment rate is below 16%. And it's another objective fact, whether it bothers you or not, Mr. Bollain. Another, and with high expectations, happens in the area of Vocational Training, and now, with the expectation of Dual Training, they will have more opportunities. Our main objective is to know in depth what our young people's expectations are, in the future and in the short term, for what we maintain a permanent test with them. And this IV Youth Plan that we have recently adopted has a specific axis focused on the emancipation and autonomy of youth, and hopefully we will get results soon. It sets out actions for the three areas that meet the demands of young people themselves, such as quality education, a job to be able to pursue a career – with the programmes that we have already transferred to them and which are producing results – and access to housing. And, as I said, the Gazte Plana has this cross-cutting character that serves as a framework for the various areas of government work. We have drawn up the draft Youth Act, which we also hope will set and help to achieve these objectives, and the law aims to promote activities, facilitate emancipation and improve the quality of life of Basque citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, "My name is Llanos Gómez Euspula team members of the Society of Empulgus and National Society, about the production of the Regulations of the Special Centers of Common-wealths." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Counselor, the truth is that there are issues on which one seems to be stuck, because you ask them and you have to ask them again because it seems that they have not just been completed and resolved. I asked you about this issue at the end of 2017, and, at that time, you pointed out that at the beginning of 2018 you were already hoping to have that draft consensus decree and start processing; but it seems to be happening, as we have spoken this morning with the Law of Contributions, which we have been carrying since 2011 and have not just boiled down. As I told you when I asked you, last October 1, 2018 was when the Basque Government announced this draft decree, which regulates the programs and services related to the employability of persons with disabilities, and on December 12, 2018, the resolution of the Director of Employment and Inclusion, which submits the above-mentioned draft to public information, was adopted. The deadline for allegations was 18 January 2019, according to the same information, and despite having been asked of her department on several occasions, not only by this parliamentarian, but also by parliamentarians from other groups, when the same would come into force and on what date that registration might be in place, as a date has not yet been set. We have also recently seen the latest news we have had, which is that within the regulatory plan of 2019 this project reappears. Also, if you can answer us, to what extent and how this would affect the call for grants to which, if any, entities that are currently working in the sector but have not had a register to access could be submitted. That is why we are simply pointing out how this matter is at the moment, and we therefore look forward to your reply.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u94	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u95	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Yes, Mrs. Llanos, you're right. It is true that he questioned me in 2017, at the end of 2017, on this issue, and I transferred to him the intention that we had, by the beginning of 2018, to have that draft. It is true that we have had the draft, and that their work has cost us more time than we would have liked to have already articulated it in a definitive way. The definition of this decree we have been working closely with the entities representing all the special employment centres in Euskadi, both those belonging to EHLABE and Berezilan, and we have also worked with the Elkartean association of persons with physical disabilities. We already have that draft, and I hope that by next fall it will be approved. The processing of the same has therefore, as you did the relationship, first, a process of public consultation; the order of 28 March 2018; we have already made the necessary supporting and economic technical memories; on 22 November the prior approval of the project was made; and, on 20 December, as you said, the resolution of the Director of Employment and Inclusion was published. At the same time, in order to make progress, we have been collecting the necessary mandatory reports, such as that of Emakunde, linguistic normalization, data protection, attention to citizenship and public service; and I also know that the deputy councilman himself transferred the situation in which the decree was based by telephone. In turn, we have carried out hearings and allegations, we have already responded to those allegations, and now what we are doing is to refer it to the ESC for its mandatory report, to have the reports of legality and economic control, and I hope that in October we can take it to the Governing Council for final approval. In the area of subsidies, the companies that register..., because the decree is not going to have only a character of registration of the companies, but what we are trying to do is to define all the active policies for persons with disabilities, and that they are fully or, at least, for the most part, those policies in this decree, which will not only be registration, but will be broader.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Counselor, it is true that it must cost a lot, and I have no doubt that it must cost, because there was already a draft in the previous legislature, since 2014, so we carried that draft. But I have also told you on other occasions: there are other autonomous communities that have had it for a long time. With this, I do not understand that there would be any more procedure in the previous legislature to allow us to move forward and allow us to have to wait until October, so you have said, for that draft to see the light, because you have already told us on other occasions. But it was also from the previous legislature that his department's objective was not only to regulate the registration of special employment centres, but also to create a broader legal framework, a comprehensive regulatory development. But, as I have told you on other occasions, you, who are the experts in demanding competence, therefore, competence must not only be held, but must be exercised, exercised and exercised well. And it seems that in this respect, then, you will tell me that things are working very well, but it is also true that there are entities that are working in the sector, that need that register of special employment centres, that that legal framework is finished, and it is not, because this decree has not just seen the light. That's why I was asking him if in that decree, somehow, retroactivity could be collected. And why do I tell you about retroactivity? Because they will probably leave before the end of this session, aid will come out for the entities, and, of course, those entities that are not on the register, so they will not be able to access it. So, for them, this dilation is a very important aspect. I have to recognise the good functioning of the entities that are already there, the ones you mentioned; the work of the third sector in this field is very important and has been working for many years. But you are also aware that there are other entities that, at this time, are waiting for the decree to see the light and that they will probably not be able to access this year's aid either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u98	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u99	Mrs. Llanos, briefly. The decree, yes, is intended to capture these active employment programmes and policies for persons with disabilities. The Basque inclusion model is an exemplary model, which has since been recognized as an effective model, and some of these good results go hand in hand with the active and coordinated work of the special employment centres. It is an ambitious decree; we have worked with those entities. The third social sector in Euskadi and in the field of disability is very important, and we have worked with them. But we have also worked with the part of the private enterprise that also collaborates so that people with disabilities have more opportunities. The Government's goal is to achieve maximum inclusion for those persons with disabilities, and of course we would have liked to have brought it before. But what the last legislature was able to move forward does not continue, it is not possible, because, legally, apparently, it is not feasible, and the process of processing has to start from the zero minute. Let us therefore hope that, at last, in October, we will obtain that registration and that this decree will benefit both social inclusion or social inclusion enterprises and special social initiative employment centres, as well as those private enterprises that also seek to work together to increase opportunities for persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, you know, about Martín together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to discuss the decisions of the local world, the Plant and the Housing Department." Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u101	Yes, good morning. What is your assessment of the housing agreements reached in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u102	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, any assessment is inevitably subjective. But I can tell you that, as a whole, we are reasonably satisfied with the degree of fulfilment of the commitments we have made, resulting from parliamentary resolutions and the objectives that, in the development of the Housing Act, we have set out in the Housing Master Plan 2018-2020. And, if there is any delay, I can say that it is in no way affecting people's rights and expectations. Almost 100 per cent of the targets for the construction of protected public housing and the capture of private housing for social rental are being met, and the subjective right to housing is already being extended and applied in its maximum configuration. By the end of February, we had already recognized 4,119 subjective rights, and 766 housing units had been awarded and 438 economic housing benefits had been granted. This same week, 2,860 communications were just sent to so many other households (434 in Alava, 1,811 in Bizkaia and 615 in Gipuzkoa), which, according to our records, could access this right in 2019. And, of course, supplementary housing benefits, linked to income guarantee income, with February data, continue to be paid. They received 25,466 family units this month.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u105	Okay. I am going to complete the assessment you have made at the moment, and I am going to tell you, from a subjective objectivity, one of the breaches that I believe the Government is making of the agreements of this Parliament. Because, for example, we agreed in July 2018 on a report on the impact of tourist apartments on the rental price. That report had to be here during 2018; we don't know it, and it's just a report about how tourist flats are affecting rent prices. He knows perfectly well that we have an average of 1,200 euros, for example, in Gipuzkoa. To know to act, to know what problem we have with the tourist flats to be able to act. The report on tax incentives for rent was also agreed in July; it was due in January. We do not have it; we only have an assessment of the tax measures that have been taken so far, but we need future measures to mobilize housing, to have affordable rent, because it is a very serious problem. The report on the competences of the Government and the competences of the municipalities is approved on 15 November 2018. It had to be in the first quarter of 2019; we don't have it, for example, and that is also preventing development in many municipalities. A thing as simple as a calendar; I asked, I believe that in the first intervention I made in housing, a timetable for the development of the Housing Law. It was approved in this plenary, it had to be the first quarter of 2019 and it is not, and we are already on April 5. On the decree of the subjective right to housing, it had to be already. We gave you an extension in November, it has to be in July, but it is that you, on that decree, the answer you give me is that, in order to pass that decree, apart from all administrative problems, you need personnel. So, I don't know if it's the staff first and then the decree, or first the decree and then the staff. I believe that the Basque Government needs to be made clear in this regard. And on the tools for mobilizing empty housing, they could have been done even before the Constitutional Court's ruling and put them into operation. That is what we are asking from Parliament: to have everything prepared so that, at the moment when that sentence was passed, it will be put into effect, and we still have no. And, using the government's data, we have 20,000 empty homes to mobilize. We didn't arrive with those 20,000 empty homes to solve the problem we have, but it would be a good palliative. And the same thing I say to him: these breaches, these delays – we are on April 5th – many had to have been in the first quarter. We are already on 5 April; that is why I have waited until today to ask you these questions. They don't make me very flattering about compliance. And I say again to you: I asked for leadership and I will acknowledge the things that are being done and done, but this Parliament's agreements are not being complied with right now, and therefore we cannot congratulate it, we cannot recognise that work by the Basque Government, apart from continuing to do what has been done so far, but we have measures to be put in place. There are examples: in Balearic Islands, we have 1,000 homes mobilized from large forks last year; here we can do it. In Valencia, the price index is established, using fiscal measures to mobilize these homes and to put them at an affordable price. In Catalonia, there is a register of empty dwellings in progress and a tax on empty dwellings, and they exercise the right to bribe and retract, not only in the public park but also in the private park of the big forks. All these measures, together with those already being taken, which are insufficient, all these measures would serve to mobilize empty housing and to solve the problem of rent, because, in the first quarter of 2018, 74% of evictions were for rent. That's the problem we have. We have tools, and let's use them, Mr. Arriola.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u106	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u107	Mr Martinez, I have already admitted from the outset that there is some delay, but you too must admit that in no way is this harmful to people. Our regulatory production system is not characterized by its agility, as you know, although, on the other hand, it is very guaranteeing, and, in addition, in the field of our department, very participatory. In short, we will close and bring to Parliament the report on the Housing Act, progressing both in clarifying competition issues and in planning their regulatory development. The decree regulating subjective law will be taken up shortly, once the numerous allegations made have been answered, and, as you already know – and you have mentioned it here – the question is not so much on the final contents already closed but on having sufficient resources from a human point of view, to ensure that the quality of service is maintained and improved, if possible. The Uninhabited Housing Decree has already begun its bureaucratic path, following previous contacts with Eudel, and it is reasonable to assume that it will see the light at the end of this year. The operational integration of the department and its public societies is strategically ensured in the Housing Master Plan. As you know, we are working on reports on tourist flats and also on tax incentives. We continue to intensify rental policies, to the point that two out of three public rental homes delivered in Spain last year were Basques. And, in turn, and despite the difference in size and population, we are the second community with the most protected housing started, with 1,866 new beginnings. These are recent data from the Ministry of Development. We're working on a lot of fronts, Mr. Martinez. Of course we have a long way to go, but we know where we want to go, and we have the will and some of the springs necessary to go this way. That you think we're slow? I think so too, and I'd like us to be faster, but times are what they are. I ask you to be patient, trust me, because I guarantee you that we are on the right track, and I think we will agree on many of the procedures, in addition to agreeing on the objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interra, Juana de Bengoechea Estiz, members of the Popula team, made to the head of the Board of Education, a distant University of the Arabs." Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Look, in the budget for 2018 – in the draft budgets that was presented – for the UNED in Álava, 97,000 euros were allocated. Throughout the budget negotiations, our group tabled an amendment to add 100,000 euros to that amount, so that in the 2018 budget the amount that appeared was 197,000 euros. The entities holding the UNED lauvée centre are four, with the following contributions in the 2018 budget: the Foral de Álava, with 216,000 euros; the City Council of Vitoria, with 100,000 euros; the UNED headquarters, with 226,000 euros; and the Basque Government, which, although proposing 97,000 euros, at the end the amount remained at 197,000 euros thanks to the amendment of the People's Group. And, on December 12, 2018, the government approved the budget extension of that 2018 budget for 2019. You all know that. But we are not only functioning with the extension of 2018, but also on February 14th the plenary decision of the Basque Parliament passed Law 2/2019, the second law of this year, which was called Urgent Budget Measures for the 2019 financial year on remuneration and other aspects relating to the extension. And the second point in the second provision was: "In particular, the expenditure authorisations for grants, which are nominally allocated in the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2018, shall be deemed to be extended, provided that they do not finance programmes or actions which by their nature should have been completed in that financial year". Well, this is absolutely reasonable: if, for some reason, the government grants – let's say – €800,000 to some community, some municipality to make a bridge, logically, that amount is not extended. They're not going to make a second bridge next to the first bridge. The bridge's already done. And last February the Department of Education informed the management of the UNED of Álava that the amount allocated to them by the Basque Government for 2019 is 97,000 euros, in breach of both the budget extension, because, in the year, there were 197,000 euros in the 2018 budget, had the origin that had that amount, as well as the extension, in our opinion, the Law 2/2019. And, therefore, we wanted to ask the Government why this should happen. Why does the Government fail to carry out the extension? Because, of course, the amount that appears is 197,000 euros. And why does Law No. 2, Law No. 2/2019, which states that grants will be extended, fail to comply? Moreover, there is one thing that further puzzles us, and that is that this criterion has not been extended to other budget items. For example, we have introduced amendments for the FP, which have been maintained with the extension and which have complied with the extension and which have complied with the second law of this year. And not only for FP, but, for example, for the University of the Basque Country, we introduced quantities that have been maintained. So what criteria do we have for some yes and others no? And, above all, for those of others not, is the Government not aware that it is violating a law and that it is violating an extension of budgets? It is truly incomprehensible, and I will dare to make – it is that I have no other remedy – some judgment of intentions. Is the Basque government using, I like this one and this one does, and this one doesn't like and this one doesn't? Because there will have to be some criterion, because even the action with the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party is not being consistent. Mine are the ones that belong to Education, like this one from the UNED in Álava. And it is that the Basque Government does not like UNED, because, of course, it is a state-level institution. Is that the reason? Because, then, it should be said that the UNED of Alava is primarily serving Basque citizens. Basque citizens who, moreover, for many reasons, but among them the economic, the transfer, the enrollment, are more economical and more advantageous to sign up for UNED. But not only that; it is that the different universities at a distance – and we have other entities that are not university students, such as the Basque Institute of Distance Education – are increasingly a physical distance, but less a virtual distance. With the new technologies, the approach, the defects or difficulties that a distance education had are being corrected. There is a telematic approach, there is a continuous consultation, there are online classes. In other words, distance education is being revealed as an effective education, which serves Basque citizens and which, in addition, prevents things that are normally expensive, such as transfers; even, many of the materials are also online. So that's what we wanted to ask the government. Why, in this particular case of UNED Álava, is both the budget extension and the second law of this year not being complied with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u110	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u111	Good day, Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mrs. De Bengoechea, I'd like to begin my speech with a work of texting, explaining the principal points of my departmental university and study. First of all, we've made a point of betting on excellence and internationalization, because our college education and scientific standards are key keys to success. We have a strong commitment with the development of our Esscal College System, which manages its results and adapts itself to the new global environment through the descendants of the romances which the society of the Basque Country must face in the future. The Euscal University System plan; the development of regulations, the application of the Basque University to the international excellence and support of its social influence; and to encourage the eucalyptic system which will be able to solve the roots of society. On the side of that commitment, the Euskal University of 2019 has recently been approved and defined by other offers. This plan will encourage the progress by looking at the excellence of the Esska University System, strengthening excellent investigations and transferal policies. For this purpose we shall particularly distinguish the relations between the university system and the schools, and in general of society, by increasing the international tendency, and penetrating into the innovation of the model of the euscal university system. Further, we shall develop general policies which our system has so naturally, e.g. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. Basque University System, we have an international commitment. We have a strong commitment to the university plus the company strategy. We are committed to the internal university of Esscal and Eucharistic administration, to promote relations between corporations and other economic and social agents, by means of training and the transfer of knowledge. We're committed to pushing students who've finished the university into the factory. We have a strong commitment to develop the science policy and basic college research and promote talent with the search for excellence. That's our commitment. That commitment is a plan of making love for this legislation, and we're doing it strictly. After this first explanation, and considering the context, I shall be able to answer more and more fully the question that has been given me. First, let us remember that UNED is a Spanish public university at the state level, under the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, so it is the Ministry's function to ensure budgetary sufficiency for the development of its functions. UNED aims to facilitate access to university education and the continuity of its education to all persons trained to do so who choose their educational system either by their methodology, either for work, economic, residence or any other reason. It has its headquarters in Madrid and on the university campuses of Senda del Rey and Ciudad Universitaria, although it has a wide network of associated centers spread throughout the State and outside the State. Associated centres provide support to UNED education. In practice, they are basic institutions of the UNED system, where students are welcomed, orientated and attended in person. They facilitate socialization, organize face-to-face testing, provide material support resources and act as links between the student and headquarters. They are autonomous bodies that depend on the headquarters for academic issues, but have been created on a local initiative and are sponsored through the corresponding agreements by public and private corporations or entities. Organic Law 4/2007, amending Organic Law 6/2001 on Universities, confers on the Autonomous Communities important competences in relation to universities located in the territorial sphere. However, given the special characteristics of UNED, the law allows for the formalization of agreements with the autonomous communities. Therefore, the framework of work established with the University of Distance Education, the framework of work approved and signed by both parties and which should be the reference mechanism and fundamental relationship between the two institutions is the partnership agreement. Euskadin, the UNEDs have joined three schools: In Bergar, in Portugal and Vitoria-Gaste, a school in every historical region of our Autonomy Errigo, and a geographical position is the impulse to create these schools. The services they gave to student 5.777 in 2018, but I must say that a remarkable number of them is not connected to official studies, and that they are men who have been recorded in constant education lectures. In this joint, it was the mission of 'Euskal University Company' in the college society where the university politics are more than Basque. Training and knowledge are crucial factors for the economic, cultural and social development of a country. The EukoMalk acknowledges an important academic, cultural, social work that these students do, and he takes over to support the activities that they do in this Middle-world Autonomy. However, as you know, UNED is not a member of the Escal University System, on the formal side. Any of the studies offered by UNED are not governed by the academic criteria of the Basque university system: the criteria of job placement, social needs in Euskadi or Basque, among others. In short, UNED has no coordination or organizational dependence with the Basque Government, neither in legal nor academic terms, nor with regard to the implementation of the university policy and coordination of the Department of Education. Secondly, with the aim of achieving the best quality of the university system as a whole and the greatest efficiency in the use of public resources, the signing of the agreement established coordination mechanisms that allow the articulation and vertebration of university teaching in person and at a distance, covering both regulated studies and continuing education and university extension. In addition, the tasks of the coordinating committee include assessing and monitoring the correct application of the amount granted, financing, without prejudice to the applicable rules on financial control and control. As set out in that agreement, the Basque Government, through the Department of Education, grants the activities of the UNED students enrolled in the same treatment as those receiving the corresponding activities of the students of the universities established in Euskadi. It should be noted that the policy of the Department of Education with regard to the financing of the associated centres UNED Euskadi is governed by the same criteria for all centres –Bergara, Portugalete and Vitoria-Gasteiz – and in the following way: a baseline contribution, corresponding to 30% of the total funding available, i.e. each 10%, the remainder being distributed according to the volume of students enrolled in the training offer at each centre. By the way, these criteria have been agreed with the Rectorate of UNED and endorsed in the agreement we have signed between the two institutions, and are subject to change, provided that the proposal ensures equal treatment between UNED students in Euskadi. Thus, with regard to the budgets of the UNED centres in Euskadi, the amounts must be in line with the amounts that the Department of Education forecasts annually. In this regard, on 10 January 2019, the Department of Education informed UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz that the policies of the Basque Government for 2019 were set out in the budget proposal presented at the parliamentary seat; that is, a €400,000 allocation was made in 2019 for UNED Euskadi. We are aware that in recent years, through amendments to the budgets of the Basque General Administration, resources provided by the Department of Education have been increased on a timely basis, and beyond what is foreseen. These contributions are considered extraordinary and timely, i.e. they are limited to the calendar year in which they have been agreed. The Basque Government has thus maintained its structural contribution this year. You cited Law 2/2019, on urgent measures for the 2019 financial year, and referred to the second additional provision. You'll allow me not to reproduce it. But I would like to stress the end: "always and when you do not finance programs or actions that by their nature should have ended in that exercise". As I have already said, the contributions take account of extraordinary and timely contributions, since the funding agreed with the Rectorate and within the framework of the Convention has to deal with structural expenditure, the remainder being additional contributions. In response to his question – and he acknowledged the important academic, cultural and social work carried out by UNED's associated centres in the territory of Euskadi – it is the aim of this Government to continue to implement responsibly the commitments entered into with UNED; that is, within the framework of the partnership agreement and its coordinating committee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u113	Madam Counselor. You have begun your intervention by explaining to us what are the fundamental objectives of the Basque system of university education: Basque, equality, excellence, employability, internationalization... I didn't ask you about that. In all this, we agree; above all, we agree on the point of view. Then we'll have to evaluate the results. But it seemed a little out of time to me in the context of the interpellation that I have made. Then, when it has started to reschedule, because it has devoted more than a minute – I think – to reschedule that UNED is not a Basque university, that UNED is not a Basque university, which is a Spanish university. Of course, for many a Spanish university is also a Basque university. But I understand that you don't share it. So it turns out that the treatment is different because it's Spanish. Well, no. Something that is Spanish is also Basque. Then let's see. The partnership agreement, of course it is. But if you tell me that it seems out of time, what I do not understand is why you have continued in the negotiations on the budgets by assuming our 100,000-euro amendment, when in fact it was not justified by any extraordinary activity. You say that it is an extraordinary amount for UNED, and, as we present it and in the coming departure, and as we put it, that it is an extraordinary amount, so you say it now here. But in the budgets it was under the same heading as those 97,000 euros. Then, in that item I put, in the unit of Alava, 197,000 euros. It did not come in two separates, 97,000 for infrastructure costs and 100,000 for activities. No, no, the match was 197,000 euros. Now, you tell us it's extraordinary. I don't think it's extraordinary. I believe that you consider it a toll that you had to pay – not you; the government – for budgets to come forward, and that now says "it's over; I don't." But it can't be, Counselor, because there is an extension of budgets, and the amount that appeared was that, and it didn't discriminate for what it was one thing or another. Then, if 197,000 euros appear in 2018, it must be moved, because now you tell me that it is an extraordinary expense for activities and for not knowing what. I don't know. Nor do we put it this way in the budget debate, nor in the budgets that we approved were 97,000 euros for extraordinary expenses and 100,000 euros for activities that must end this year. No, that didn't come like that. You now consider it that way, and now what you want is to shake a toll. But that's not fair because, besides, it's okay, it will be a Spanish university, but it serves Basque citizens, and it wasn't within the Basque system, which you seem to describe as the village of Asterix surrounded by a wall. But you know? Those who live within the village of Asterix are using, are Basque and are using UNED. So, really, I can't – I'm sorry – accept your explanations, because they're explanations that have come, come. Where is it written in the budgets that those 100.00 euros that appeared were for student activities? It's just that I haven't found it – maybe I haven't looked at it well, because I know myself, I know myself, and maybe I haven't looked at it well. But there he put 197,000 euros, and the proof is the surprise that the UNED of Alava has had when, suddenly, they punish him, because they shake a toll, because they are a Spanish university and because you have decided that, suddenly, those 100,000 euros were for student activities. I think that, really, the approach was not that, it was not that at all; it was an amendment made by this group. And I'm sorry, but I can't take your explanations. With this, we will put forward a motion, which may or may not come out, but I tell you, and that is why I am addressing the rest of the groups in this House. We will present that motion so that Basque citizens who choose UNED, even though they have the sin of choosing a Spanish university, are served. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u114	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u115	Bengoeche was walking. Euscadian UNED, as far as college budgets are concerned. I'll start with that. The amount of money that you have to put on is compatible with the budgets that the Board of Education sets every year. UNED, according to his autonomy, has a right to get other incomes than Eucommy. As I indicated to you, on 10 January 2019, the Department of Education informed UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz that the Government's policies for 2019 were set out in the budget proposal submitted to Parliament. Subsequently, at the meeting between the Basque Government and UNED on 21 February 2019, it was agreed to distribute the aid of EUR 400,000 for the 2019 financial year, which has been carried out as follows: 192,335 to UNED Bizkaia, 111,539 to UNED Bergara and 96,126 to UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz. These amounts correspond to the student number of each centre. In the context presented at the beginning of my first intervention, it is important to mention that Law 3/2004, of the Basque university system, contains provisions governing public funding from the Basque Government to universities of the Basque university system. The rest of the funding is additional, because it is not so included in the Act, simply. In this way, the Basque Government makes a greater effort than established when it funds additional resources to other university educational projects, including UNED in Euskadi. Thus, we understand that the Basque Government attends to UNED in Euskadi, and also to the centre of Vitoria-Gasteiz, in a singular way. This is an issue that the various UNED governing teams have transferred and thanked this Administration and, in particular, this department. We cannot say that this is a policy that other equivalent administrations do not implement and that the Basque Government does. I would also like to stress that UNED is a university funded by the General Administration of the State. In this sense, and by application of the Economic Concert, nor does it have to say that the contribution that UNED receives is also related to our contribution through the Cup. On the other hand, the economic resources paid by the student to the UNED centres only partially revert to the centre, since a significant percentage of the tuition they pay, 40%, goes to UNED Madrid. It would not be wrong, as more funding is being requested, Mrs Bengoechea, to also fight for that 100 % of what the Basque student pays will remain entirely in Euskadi. I must add that the UNED student, and therefore also UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz, opts for the scholarship to pursue university studies and other higher studies. During the current course, 144 UNED students have benefited from the grant. Taking these issues into account, we can conclude that Euskadi finances UNED by 4 different channels, not just through the direct contribution to which you have referred. I would not like to end my speech without providing additional information, which I think is relevant, as more funding is being talked about or requested. As regards the associated centre UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz, it did not implement the entire budget allocated for that year; in November 2018, over-financing was verified, because the forecast of the revenues contributed exceeded the expenditure of development of its activity during that year by 9,579. In addition, you should know that, as was reported in the patronage of the UNED associated centre in Vitoria-Gasteiz, held on 25 March, in which the budgets were approved unanimously, after the 2018 financial year, UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz has had a remaining treasury of 40,000 euros. Finally, I would like to say that the centre associated with UNED in Vitoria-Gasteiz has revenues amounting to 740,000 euros, catering to 1,158 students, and that, after that, we have 1,194,780 euros in Portugalete, catering to 3,143 students, and in Bergara, 550,228 euros, catering to 1,476 students. The Basque Government is committed to continuing to support UNED Euskadi, both through budget lines and through the translation of university policy led by the Department of Education. And it will continue to work to ensure that all Basque students of UNED Euskadi receive equal treatment in all the historic territories of Euskadi, ensuring that the allocated economic resources are reasonable and in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team members of the Board of Education, about the state of the colleges under the Social Association of Ekim." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u117	Good morning. I'll see you soon, ma'am. I'm no longer surprised that a union has asked for your resignation, the conduct you're being seen and the observations you're making: Let care be left to others, to evade the cares of you, to throw insults around workers and unions, to resist conflicts, etc., etc., etc., etc. Besides, seeing all this, the statements and observations of the Erkoe, and also that the unions did not appear to the meetings they called, we have the impression that you are using this conflict, that you are investigating it, that you are using it with other political ends. Ms. Your Honor, it's unacceptable that a chief of departments are trying to accuse unions that they're using this pact conflict to damage the bond network and promote public school. What do you mean by that? You, the boss of the public school, don't want to encourage public school? Is that what you mean? Do you really think that teachers who are part of the unions and who are compacts want to harm themselves? Do you really think these teachers want to harm their students? Really? Or what's really behind it is that you're the ones who're using this case, taking your students as prisoners, I don't know what kind of political purposes? Because what's happening is incomprehensible and unacceptable. And, as usual, students and families lose. The Confederate Schools have been raised by the pago delegate. The private companies have increased funding, and they have money to fix it. They've got everybody's money. They can fix it with what they've already received. You admitted it yourself. And if they don't intend to fix it, or if they don't want to solve the problem, maybe what you have to do is everybody's money, public money, take it away from that company. Don't you think? For yours, that is to say, are subject to the legal and finance of all, for good and evil. And you are now the guardians and managers of the public money. And right now, private company is blackmailing us, so what are you doing? What are you going to do to fix this case? Because you can't understand what's happening. You're going to get out of the company's skirt, and you're really not gonna let this trial rot any longer?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u119	Mrs. Groundpresidete. Madam Ubera, there is a struggle of workers in origin, but the consequences of this conflict have long since spread to society. A thousand families, thousands and thousands of students are worried too. Be sure you do. Be sure, too, that we're doing our best to approach each other, according to our ability and care; that the Board of Education has long been working with discretion, and that's the way to do it, though it means looking at the media, and not spending more than once in the gatherings that are really thought to solve so many conflicts. It is clear that the differences which cross one another are contrary to one another. That the patronials and the unions of the ethanciation will come to the solution from the nearing of the yaxian attitudes. It is their business to make a treaty. As long as this does not happen, we demand a thing from the Board of Education over and over again: schools can't go on suffering. Here's to you. Our young men, the right of education to children, are our principal treasure, and cannot suffer the consequences of a conflict of labour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u121	Then you can move, you can fix it. "And let no need be used by the interpreters, nor by you, that they may harm their families and their disciples. Any time you want, you move. In 2018, a host strike? You moved at once, and you were under far less jurisdiction than in this case. Under your legal frame, they're placed under our finance. Move. Fix it. Give an answer to the students and families. It's up to you, and it's your responsibility. It's your responsibility. You have an order from the law. Fill it up. Fill it up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u123	I don't know what to say anymore, because even though I tell you over and over again that we're working, it doesn't matter. In the end, my words are not heard or misunderstood, or they don't want to be understood. But we're accused of dismembering the department. Yeah. But those who criticized our supposed slowness were the same as those who participated in many meetings at the Lake. And in those meetings, they've been recognized by the first hand to solve the main concerns of the unions, the proposals made by the Board of Education, especially because the teachers were born to change their jobs and to renew generations. The Board of Education is nowhere else to look. With all the explanation, we have proposed solutions to real problems more than 30 meetings. I would like this intervention to make absolutely clear the position of the Basque Government, in a conflict in which it does not act or should act as the parties directly involved in it; that is, employers and trade unions. Let us not forget that we are faced with demands which have their origin and their reason for improving working conditions, within the framework of a collective agreement signed between employers and trade unions; that this agreement is negotiated in the strict domain of those entitled to sign them – that is, employers and trade unions; that in view of the impossibility of reaching agreements between these parties it is possible to mediate a third party, the Department of Labour, as the Ararteko has said, at the request of employers or trade unions; that the Department of Education, as guarantor of the whole system and as responsible for the education of the whole student of the Autonomous Community, is working on a line of action which, in turn, comes to help the main question, which is the maintenance of the jobs of teachers before the fall of birth. I sincerely hope that, beyond their differences, they will be able to appreciate the proposal, and that it will be taken positively by employers and trade unions. Patronal and the unions have our proposals on the table, yes. These are the principal points of the proclamation of the unions, and, yes, we can cultivate them from the Board of Education, based on our jurisdictions, as we have hitherto done. That's our criterion. And again, to finish. I ask the unions again to act carefully, and to the right of education of our scholars, let them extract mobilizations from the rooms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interadecialization, the members of the U.S. Blanco de Angulo EH Collect, made for the head physician of the Medical Department, concerning the decay of the Osade." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u125	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. You've been in charge for a month, but you're in health as a worker and as a manager. You know a lot of problems that haven't been solved. In fact, what's going on in Osar isn't the point. These conflicts are not an isolated problem; they are, in our opinion, only the effects of the collapse of public health. Overlying in several directions: The wait-lists are longer and longer; there is room and difficulty in new hospitals; and, if it were but a few, first care workers will be out again in the street in a few days. And if they go out on the street, it won't be because of whimsy, it'll be done for the contrast work we've been doing on the street before, and the lack of consent. And what credibility is there in this plan, if the workers, by the first hand, do not approve of those who work in their first care? We are aware that you have received several corrections and contributions made to the primary attention strategy. What we didn't know is whether they'd consider it. And, as a result of this lack of agreement, they will recognize that primary care is facing a difficult situation, although not impossible to resolve. Thus, on 12 April and 17 May, primary care professionals will go out to the streets because they consider that the primary school is going through a critical and serious situation; because the workforce is increasingly destabilized; falls or retirements are not covered; and therefore, according to their opinion, they cannot provide the care that their patients deserve. It's obvious that what's going on in the first circle of attention or in the ambulances is going on. As I said, when there are bajoks in jobs for vacations, retirement, or diseases, they don't fit in, so it's hard for us to make a trial of the situation we've often been having or go to the doctor's. We are suffering waiting lists that condemn citizens to have to wait more than three, four and five and six months, depending on what specialties, or to wait a week, at best, for their family doctor to attend to them. And the Basque Health System is a big puzzle. It is a great puzzle that has to be very well geared, because, if a link falls, then the next one falls. And it's a pity, as we have often said, that it's the main door to the primary attention system to get inside the health system. And if that first step doesn't work, the one that follows will deal with many privations and difficulties. Nevertheless, EH Collect is clear that if we do not recognize the dysfunctions within the system, it is thanks to professionals. If this is our most precious treasure, the workers are, in our opinion, diamonds that are contained in that treasure. And many professionals, in many cases, have great degrees of stress on their own account. And how does the health department thank the workers for their hard work? I still haven't paid for professional career incentives, even if I'm in the contract. In fact, time has shown us that it will not be paid since 2019. It is therefore very well, therefore, in public to protect, to praise, to raise, but at the time of managing their rights, they are turned back. On the other hand, if the professionals of Osakidetza are not at their best, we cannot say that the situation of the patients of the Basque health service is much better. As we have said before, when there are deficiencies in management, citizenship is the worst stop, unfortunately. It is the one that suffers from the increase of waiting lists or the saturation of services. Without going further, a few days ago we have known that at the University Hospital of Cruces there has been a waiting list of a month to receive chemotherapy treatments. It is true that the next day it was announced the authorization of a adjoining room to lighten the list, but, for us, this situation once again proves that what really happens is that there is a lack of service planning, a lack of human resources planning and even of material means. The chief physician of the department has often stated that he agrees with theological plan which you have described, but what is written, as I have said before, must be fulfilled and executed, otherwise it will be of no use. And what has happened with the list of waitings for chemotherapy is again no single case, no isolated case, has been left a few days ago, the relations of parents with cancer have remained in this chamber, to explain again the gaps and deficiencies that are significant. And among these requests that these parents' associations presented to us, questions were raised such as the lack of spaces; rooms, still today, quadruples, with what that implies; lack of personnel in pediatric oncology and the lack of psychological care for all people who pass through this trance, both for patients and family members, as well as for professionals who attend to them. By the way, he has a mandate from the House that urges him to offer that service in the two pediatric oncology units; now we would like him to do so. Because that's also part of the Oncological Plan, Mrs. Murga, that's also an oncological plan. So, you see, there are many points to solve: the workmen, the patients, we've spoken about the waiting lists, and we're short of buildings. As a matter of fact, if I stopped to examine what is happening under the circumstances at this moment, I wouldn't have time to list all things. We have mentioned that we have a list of waitings at the Cross Hospital for chemotherapy, and, within a few miles of this hospital, we have a hospital without a bed: That's the Gernikian Hospital. And the third floor of that center is empty. This doesn't make any sense to us. On the other hand, in another country, we have another wonderful hospital, recently impressed; Eibar Hospital. The third floor of that Centre is also empty, like in Guernica. Again, we have to show that there's been a lack of planning. In addition, another hospital called Udullis, a hospital that doesn't supply the rules of access. And it is also to be mentioned that the climate system of my country, my country, my new centre of health, is to be adapted, Augusted in 2017, and now, again, one must spend at least 1600,000 to fit it. So we could talk for a long time about subsidies, but the end of this interaction is beyond. Osakidetza is drifting, counselor, and it is up to you to postpone the situation, because we believe that if you do not take the appropriate measures in a short time, the only thing you will do is to go further. There are many, as we have well explained, fronts that are open right now: staff that are violated by rights; staff aged and feminized, feminized in many sections, but tremendously masculinized in areas of power; staff that suffers day by day from the wage gap; and, in the meantime, they still do not draw up the much requested and announced equality plan; diagnosis yes, but the plan we have not yet seen. Infrastructures with lack of planning; plans and strategies that do not agree and generate conflict. In short, injured and injured patients, which is what we should be most concerned about. So, chief physician, we're asking you to prove the leadership you need at this moment in the Medical Department, and if that's your goal, I'm asking you to use your shift to end that collapse. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs. Murga, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u127	Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. When I took up my post as Health Advisor last March 20, I valued the entire trajectory of the 36-year history of Osakidetza, because, Mrs. Blanco, I do believe in a Basque health system, Osakidetza. I don't think he's in decline; I don't think he's drifting. This belief is not mine. Most citizens of the Basque Country believe in Osakidetza and its professionals, and we believe because we have reason to do so. Osakidetza is the public system best valued by Basques and Basques, and has the best professionals, as the users of the Basque health system themselves point out. Although you may not share it, something must have been done well by the professionals of Osakidetza and the successive governments of Euskadi, as we are leaders in health care and enjoy the support of society. But, along with this recognition, I also know that I must not fall into self-congratulation, and we must all continue to work and adapt to the health needs of our citizens. That is why I am not hiding from the adverse situations, and I assume the responsibility that I have and the leadership that you ask of me. Because, as in any organization or company, there are problems and situations to improve. But, from there to trying to show a decline in the work of thousands of professions as a whole, I think it's a stretch. I do not conceal myself from the severest circumstances, and I accept my responsibility. But I don't think it's right to try to interfere with the work for so many years, I don't think. I will begin by referring to the strikes planned for 12 April and 17 May in primary care, to which you have referred. From the respect for the right to mobilization and strike of all workers, I will tell you that it does not seem to me to be an adequate answer, since I do not think that this is the way to solve the current problems that, I recognise, may be in primary care, and because I do not believe that we are without taking action and measures to do so. We have a strategic plan and a set of measures that I will set out below. To develop these, they have emerged from months of work with different people, professionals and sectors usually involved in the care of citizens in primary care. We are working closely with the health centres, with the UAPs, with the integration directorates, with the professional colleges, with the Advisory Council for Primary Care, to analyze and identify areas of improvement and strengthen the current model of primary care in which we believe. We've just started our first-class attention strategy with 35 specific actions in order to contribute a better service to society. Among these measures, we propose a new organization of doctors and nurses. As a result of months of work, we have presented the primary care strategy, which seeks to strengthen this level of care and to give better service to Basque society, in addition to facilitating a better organization for professionals who make up this area. For example, we have set ourselves the goal that quotas should not exceed 1,400 patients per doctor or doctor and that they should not concentrate more than 15% of patients over 75 years of age. To achieve this, we will expand the staff to 86 places of family medicine and nursing in primary care centers with the highest care burden. This is a matter of first order on the political agenda of the Basque Government. A reflection of this is the economic effort involved in this measure, which will entail an investment of more than EUR 4.6 million in staff over the next two years. Another of the measures that we have put on the table and that we are already doing is to debureaucratize the work of medical and nursing staff, to open and homogenize the portfolio of diagnostic tests that can be requested by family medical staff, pediatricians and nurses, so that they are all more resolutive. The agenda model of the doctors and nurses themselves is also being modified to rationalize the number of patients visited per day and reduce waiting times. From the Department of Health we also value the role of nursing. It deserves to be enhanced to strengthen teamwork. To this end, we propose measures such as nursing accreditation for the authorization and dispensation of medicines and health products in the coming months, when we already have the tools to do so; strengthen their role in home care and community actions; and teams are also being set up to guide their greater efficiency in supporting teams in guiding less severe self-limited processes. It is a fact, as you have mentioned, that we have to face the challenge of generational relief and that we are faced with a shortage of family doctors and also of pediatricians, something common to the rest of the state and many European countries. In this sense, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of the Basque Country has considerably increased the number of students. In turn, we have managed to have a higher number of places for MIR training in all specialties, but especially in those linked to aging and pediatrics. We offer 100% of the places accredited; we are the only community in the State that makes this effort of teaching capacity. The Department of Health is also working with the University of the Basque Country to promote the introduction of subjects related to family medicine and paediatrics in primary care as subjects and part of the curricula. We are also incorporating professionals as professors into the university. On the other hand, as I mentioned earlier, the primary care strategy in Euskadi is also aimed at improving the coverage of absences in the context of changing working conditions and care needs. And I am going to go on to set out some of these concrete measures. We have a flexible one-year contract so that those who finish their primary care home or have no job stability can access it. In 2018, 71 new professionals were hired with this formula, and this year it is planned to do the same, with more than 70. According to the unions, I can tell you that also professionals who voluntarily accept have an extension of the day so that they can cover the absences of companions. In addition, the voluntary retirement age has been extended to 68 for those who wish to continue to exercise after the age of 65. Lowering demand management is also another of our goals, and to do so, we are working to enhance equipment and screening in health centers. As I have also mentioned, it is planned and we already have measures in place for the extension of the 86 seats, to which I referred earlier. And, also, to enhance primary care teams, we are incorporating professionals as physiotherapists into the care circuits, and we are defining the roles of pharmacists in primary care. We accept the strike call, but I think the euscal society doesn't deserve two days of strike. I believe in talking and understanding each other in trying to find formulas for the professionals of the system and the welfare of society. We respect the call for a strike, but I believe that, with a proposal like the one I have explained to you, this can have a solution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u130	Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u131	Mrs. Murga, I thank you for your 10 minutes' explanations, but I've been a little surprised, because I've enumerated a lot of things, many things, many things, including Exodilla, strike, work conditions, lists, kimotaepiætologists, and you've answered what you've already said, and you've only talked about your first attention. I understand you may be at the beginning, perhaps you don't quite understand how simple controls go, but we usually come here to ask questions, and you answer about it. He was talking to me about primary care. It's just that we have a much more serious problem than the one you've admitted here. The other day I learned that some health center is covering primary care leave – from primary care family doctors – with specialists – with surgeons and surgeons specialists – from certain hospitals. This doesn't get in our head, Mrs. Murga. This does show a lack of planning, because that person, if he leaves the operating room to go to primary care and untie the waiting lists, we assume he will be increasing the waiting list in surgery in the hospital. Lack of planning. I told him about oncology. I know that then you have a question that you will also answer and it will be quite concrete, but I would like you to tell me something about what happened at the Cruces Hospital. Because, as we have known, there were families and patients who have been complaining, making formal complaints for a month, and it is curious that the solution seems to arrive the next day from going out in a media outlet. So, these are the things we can't afford. And again, lack of planning. Which responds to immunotherapy? Which responds to personalized treatments? Okay, but no one's thinking from day to day, from today to tomorrow, that we're suddenly going to do immunotherapy treatments to all the patients. That'll have to be planned. Osakidetza, Mrs Murga, is of all and all, of which we are here, of which we are outside, of which you are also ours. We're patients. In Osakidetza billions of euros are invested a year, and it is up to you to manage it. I'd say more: it's up to you to take care of it. We see more and more investments, but I don't know exactly where they materialise. Because hospitals are built, as I told you, and then not finished equipping them. Those interested in building are built, because then you also have a question about it. And in the meantime, there are abandoned regions, and there are regions, there are hospitals, like the hospital in Leza, which has been years without a euro of investment. Planning. They try to draw up plans and diagnoses, and invest in them so that they do not comply with them. Look, I'll tell you something else: we don't know what's going on in the field of drugs. Since Mrs Dorronsoro resigned, we have had no news, and this House has been very busy dealing with the new addictions: addictions without substance. They're missing in that area. They're missing, and they're shielding themselves that Osakidetza is highly valued. You believe in Osakidetza; we believe in Osakidetza. We're not gonna question that. But we also believe and are convinced that the decline, as I have told you, is becoming increasingly evident, and I assure you that it is something that really hurts us; it bothers us what is happening. You talk about measures, action plans, meeting, but I don't know very well who you're meeting with. They also need to change their interlocutors in order to solve primary care, because it is clear that these meetings are not bearing fruit. Strike on the 12th and strike on the 17th of May. Two strikes followed and announced. They are the first-hand ones who know the plan, and also have to work day by day in health centers. If they go out on the street, it'll be for something. Therefore, either change the strategy or change the interlocutors, if you are really trying to reach an agreement. What we are not doing, Mrs Murga, as you have said, is trying to hinder the professionals' work. Not that. That is not because, if it seems to you that questioning you for the problems we consider is hindering the work of the professionals in Osakidetza, it means that I have explained myself very badly. I've explained myself very badly. And, well, I'm gonna do another second try. I hope that in the second round, then, you will answer me to what we have really put on the table. I trust you have a very good memory. Surely that's the case, because I haven't seen her take notes, and I hope she doesn't just answer what you have written for the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u133	White anderea, I appreciate your explanations on the operation of the House. I'm sure my memory won't meet your expectations. I'm so sorry. I want to stress that oncology is an absolute priority for us. You know the Oncological Plan, which was presented in this House. A plan that has not been recognised – it seems – by you, but that has been recognized both in Euskadi and in the regions and countries of our environment, and that seeks comprehensive care and improve the survival of patients. In addition, there is an implementation plan with its budget and timetable, which was presented to it, in which I was present a few months ago. You know, Mrs. Blanco, the Osardi and the Medical Department is a priority. That's why last year we presented the Basque Onkology Plan. Nearly 3,500 new cases of cancer are currently diagnosed annually in Euskadi, and the survival rate is higher than in other countries. All health organizations in Osakidetza, with oncology services, have already deployed their tumor commissions and tumor committees, following the guidelines set out in this plan to ensure the approach I have referred to you before. We are also continuing to promote the continuous improvement of the activity of the health system, and we are already deploying the training plan of the professionals, following the timetable that I presented in their day. We continue to make progress in prevention and early diagnosis with the aim of reducing mortality and improving cancer survival, and we will spare no effort. But it is true that the incorporation of new therapies, together with the increased survival of patients diagnosed and treated, generates changes in the care needs, changes that we plan but require care processes and reorganization of spaces and organizational changes. This is demonstrated by the fact that, speaking of 13,500 cancer cases, many organizations involved in the care of these patients, the fact mentioned has been punctual. In the rest of the hospitals, with the actions carried out, a similar situation has not been generated. I'll be honest with you. It wasn't about human resources. Because there are few good psychologists, there's been a spotal situation, and we've taken the measures so that it won't happen again. In the face of a timely situation of increased demand and patients waiting for higher-than-expected cancer treatment, organizational structural measures have been taken that have allowed the usual care to be resumed and, most importantly, that will allow – or we are – that there will not be a similar situation again. It is true that the newspaper where they are reported, the next day it seemed that everything had been resolved in less than 12 hours. Measures of this type, to increase consultations, to order agendas and to quote patients are not performed in less than 24 hours. I will also tell you clearly that it has not been a human resource problem, that it has been – it is true – necessary to reorganize the physical consultation space in the day hospital to enable the agendas at a given time, and that this has occurred exclusively in a network center; and that oncological chemotherapy treatments are not given in centers such as those you point out for patient safety, such as Eibar, Urduliz and others. At this centre, a new consultation has been opened, and we already have what is considered structurally necessary to respond. It should have been less waiting time, and better information could have been given to patients. It's true and we recognize it. But I want to remind you that there have been 26 patients on time. Another aspect that we are going to improve is the communication with patients in this type of situation, which we believe has been one of the causes that has been able to increase their discomfort. Every day the necessary measures are taken, the services are planned and all these patients are treated. I conclude by saying that we work and plan to improve the quality of life and increase survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department, in order not to pay proper attention to the good biological patients of the Cross Hospital." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, welcome to this second plenary session. We also asked him about this issue because, when we saw the news, we were concerned that about 30 cancer patients at the hospital of Cruces would be in a waiting position to receive the corresponding treatment sessions in oncology. You have acknowledged that it has been a mistake, which I believe is an honor and a thank you, but I believe that from the mistakes we must learn, and let us hope that this error will not be repeated. You have acknowledged in this rostrum, in the previous speech, that there should have been less waiting time and that a better response should have been given. And I have to remember here that the complaints, above all, apart from the waiting time, have been motivated because no explanations have been received and no specific response has been given to the complaints raised. We are talking about cancer patients, who are diagnosed with cancer, and who are not overcome in a treatment phase, because they can have a good outlook on their life expectancy. We are not talking about a simple knee surgery – without taking away the importance of a knee operation – but no one escapes that the treatment of cancer and the cure of cancer patients with the corresponding treatment can clearly mark the cure and the chances of healing of a patient. Therefore, being on a pending list, and, above all, on a pending list and not getting an answer, clearly generates an obvious discomfort, not only among the sick, family members. There is also something that we want to highlight here, as has been the discomfort that has been generated in the hospital's own health professional staff. All this has created uncertainty, very logical in the face of this situation. I know that you pointed out, and we also had the opportunity to read it through the media, that a consultation was opened to ease the waiting list. We have received this news with satisfaction, but we do understand, Madam Councillor, that it is your assessment that we wanted to obtain through this question. We have understood that there has been a lack of diligence in providing an adequate response to the oncology patients at the Cruces hospital. I do not think it is a satisfactory response at all to point out that new therapies have been incorporated. I believe that, in an area where innovation is absolutely relevant, such as the area of cancer treatments, what has seemed here is that there has been a certain lack of planning and that, in the end, it has had an impact on the care given to these patients. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, let us hope that these situations will not be repeated again and that they will learn a bit from the bad experience and lack of attention to patients in this centre of Cruces, and that they will therefore learn from the mistake made. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u136	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u137	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Garrido andrea. At the beginning of my intervention, I would like to emphasize once again the understanding and how I feel about patients who have been affected by delays and lack of information. But I also want to point out that this delay time has been in a specific group of patients, which we usually attend to hundreds and hundreds of patients, who are given new therapies, and this, time and diligence has been in a time space of less than 20 days. So, I want to highlight the diligence of the response from the service and the Cruces hospital. The delay time has not exceeded the quality standards of 30 days. I don't want to apologize for this. We would have preferred and worked to ensure that the times for these therapies are always shorter, and the times and information are clearly known to patients and their families. That's right, it could have been minor. These patients were immediately provided with appointments, and structural changes have been made not in 24 hours press-realization, but it is a job that very diligently requires a time. We take note of everything that is happening on the network, what our patients are asking for, and I can assure you that we have put the measures in place and that we will try not to happen again. Time of delay, even though the standards have not been exceeded, might have been shorter and must have been. The saturation has been punctual, and be sure that the necessary measures have been taken so as not to occur again. As I have already pointed out to Mrs. Blanco, an additional daily medical consultation has been authorized in the hospital and a new weekly consultation, as well as the communication channel with nursing. We believe that these are the measures that will allow it to be resolved. That is why I am not trying to reduce a pinnacle of my responsibility, which I have just pointed out. I would also like to point out that these necessary measures have been taken. As you know, waiting times and needs are fluctuating, with peaks rising and others with lower care demands. At Cruces University Hospital and any other hospital on the Osakidetza network, the activity is subject to planning that takes into account these possible fluctuations and changes. But it is true that sometimes these changes may not have been foreseen in the amount they eventually are. But we immediately have all the material and human resources available to solve it, most rightly, if it can, in terms of oncology, where new therapies condition changes in current and future needs. For this reason we shall continue, as has been said, to lay down all the necessary human resources and resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u139	Thank you, Counselor. It is clear that harm has been caused to the patients, which you have recognized in this rostrum. It is to be thanked, but obviously this damage would not have been generated if there had been a proper planning, a proper forecast by Osakidetza and that room had been enabled earlier. So, I just hope that events of this kind will not happen again, that you have taken the life note, and that it is of no use to have an oncological plan with a series of objectives, strategic lines and concrete action measures if these things happen later. I mean, all these things have to be, as far as possible, planned, because, as I was saying, in this specific area of oncology, so there are many changes. So health organizations and professionals obviously have to be aware, and that is Osakidetza's responsibility, so that unfortunate things like this episode of delaying the waiting list for these patients do not happen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u140	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u141	Garrido anderea, I would ask you to be careful when making sentences such as that there has been harm to patients, or that the situation highlights the lack of adequate care for cancer patients at Cruces, as noted in your question. There are people at stake, sick people and many professionals to whom reference is made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "Ju Louis Uranus, the lawmate of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, the present state of the investments of the first undergovernments." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u143	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, Counsellor Nekane Murga, always welcome to this house. Colleagues and parliamentary colleagues, it is a very simple matter, the last question of the morning. Only two previews I wanted to do. We hope that the Health Commission will shortly present the primary care plan that Mrs Eba Blanco and you have been discussing here in full, and we also hope that, in the analysis of some of the problems that have arisen, such as that of medical oncology at Cruces, the responsibility for the management of the heads of service, who are never touched, will also be analysed. My question is very simple: what is the situation of infrastructure investments for primary care? And, in particular, what is the situation of the health centres in Irala, Bilbao, and Zalla, which have delays of more than ten years in their construction?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u145	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Mr Uria. We too are concerned about investments in primary care infrastructure. In Euskadi we have more than 330 outpatient health centres distributed throughout the three historical territories. And, at the moment, apart from the two you point out that you are concerned, I can tell you that we have planned investments in Murgia of EUR 1 million; Alde Zaharra, Donostia, EUR 5 million; Aiete, Donostia, EUR 4 million; Aretxabaleta, EUR 200,000; Ordizia, EUR 100,000; Retorto, EUR 100,000; and the two in particular: Irala Bilbao, EUR 2 million; and Zalla, EUR 2 million. We share with you the importance of infrastructure in primary care, although I am also committed here to presenting to the Health Committee the primary care plan that you have asked me for, in which you will see that we are not only thinking about these two health centres and brick investments, but it is a set of measures in which there are investments in many other aspects as well as organizational changes. These investments in primary care that you mention – it is true – are taking place, and we plan to develop during this year, both that of Irala and that of Zalla. In particular, I can tell you that we have already started projects and actions to develop both during this year and to reduce delays and what you have commented on. Anyway, share with me that brick is not the most important thing. The modification of the equipment is between the health department and the priorities, but we have taken many other measures to strengthen primary attention. In addition to investing in these, in all the centers that I have pointed out and in which you are specifically concerned, we will also invest in 86 new places and in many other endowments for health centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u147	Little Tejeria, thank you. Comrade Murga, it is gratifying to hear sometimes concrete answers to specific questions. However, I am not concerned about the brick; I am concerned that, when counting, for example, how many health centres come in 89, 99, how many health centres are budgeted in the previous year and how many in the previous year, we started to count and are the same. That's a mess, because we don't know where the money goes. These are the assignments you have said, but the works are not started. He missed us. Let's get to the point. The health center of Zalla accumulates 12 years without beginning the works. Assigned and approved budget items, up to four million – you have explained it very well. Year after year, matches that are not fulfilled. And the health center of Irala, eight years accumulated without beginning of the works, with assigned and approved departures. The health centers of Aiete in Donostia, Alde Zaharra in the market of the Bretxa in Donostia, Zuia Murgia, Bilbao La Vieja or the newly inaugurated health center of Retorto have taken an average of five years between the political and technical decision and the beginning of the works. In the case of the health center of Retorto, inauguration that was the other day. In the case of the health centre in Zalla, the decision was made at the end of the term of office of former Councillor Gabriel Inclán, at the end of 2009. New project award in September 2018; works have not yet begun. The health center of Irala in Bilbao was agreed by former Health Advisor Rafael Bengoa and the late Mayor Iñaki Azkuna in 2011. On January 28, 2019, Bilbao City Council finally assigned the building of the former Harino Panadera to the future health centre. The works have not yet begun. The new centres of Santutxu, Miribilla, Retuerto or Bilbao La Vieja have been inaugurated or are about to be inaugurated after five and six years of the decision of their construction and budget allocation. The health centers of Zuia Murgia, Aiete in Donostia and Alde Zaharra in Donostia have also started the works or are about to start, between five and six years after the budget allocation. It takes five years? How long should the beginning of the work of a health centre be delayed after the technical and political decision has been taken and has it been agreed with the relevant municipalities? Where does the money that is not used in investments go year after year? How do you count that money? Is it surplus? What happened in Irala's case? How much have the centers that we have mentioned for their delay in more than five years at the beginning of the work been costed? I'm talking about more than eight centers. 20%? 30%? Some 50...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u149	As you yourself have pointed out, Mr Uria, it is true: sometimes there are projects that go faster and there are others that go slower; there are works that take time, and sometimes there are aspects such as foundations, accesses, authorizations, trees and others that have been able to cause some of our projects and works to delay. It is true that we are working on this and that I am going to review in detail the reasons that have been able to cause these delays to occur so far, to see, as far as possible, because I do not believe that my predecessors had the capacity to work on it either, but I will try to do everything possible to ensure that these delays are not present. And it is true that we have recently inaugurated the Retorto, and it is true that we are working to improve these new centers, remodeling, and we are going to have an active policy to improve the conditions of the health centers. That's the priority of membership and the health department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-05.u150	Thank you, chief physician. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
