ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. The fourth point is left for another. So we begin with the subject on our way: "To judge for once the drawings of the conference in the 28th of March, following the 92.1 article of the ruler, as far as the other proposal made by the Parliamentary Podemos, is to guarantee a latic education in the eucalyptic system of education." It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. So we can vote. [[Pause]] Please be quiet. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u1	So it's not accepted. First point in theme list: "The solution of the Human Rights and the Committee of Equality, which has been made in the Esquire of the Esquimenia Esquire, between 1978 and 1999, upon the violation of the political motion of human rights, upon the sale of the law of the 12/2016th of July upon giving notice. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board, judgment? No? So, we're going to the team shift. Mr. Barrio, represent the Basque Popula team, and you're the one who's in charge of the word and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u2	Thank you, President. Good morning. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Egun on. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives and representatives of the trade unions, the police associations that are accompanying us here today in the Chamber and outside the Chamber, members of the Ertzaintza, the Civil Guard, the National Police, to whom this law affects in their honour, in their professionalism and in their image. This law, we can talk about these laws... This law will be in a while, but there is another law that hangs on. And I must say that, with regard to the proposed law of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party which is now subject to the final procedure..., I want to express my group's opposition to it, and the view that this Parliament is not going to support, is not going to approve, a good law. And we have already put forward a number of reasons, in the consideration of the proposal, a few months ago, for what was our position against it, fundamentally legal reasons, but also political ones. As you all know, we are voting against Law 12/2016, which this proposal seeks to partially reform and which created a paralegal system for investigating crimes and human rights violations. We support the unconstitutionality of the Government of Spain, which submitted the above-mentioned rule. We have not understood or shared the withdrawal of the above-mentioned remedy by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, an issue that has led to the present proposal for a law. It has been a profound mistake not to have allowed the Constitutional Court to have assessed the establishment of an administrative body with judicial characteristics called the evaluation commission and the investigation through an administrative file on matters falling exclusively within the competence of the courts of justice. Of course, we have never said – we have never said this – that victims of human rights violations should not be compensated. Quite the opposite. We have already shown this in the processing of Law 12/2016. What cannot be done is that an autonomous law establishes a para-judicial system, that such a law serves to discredit the State security forces and bodies and the autonomous police, without any judicial decisions to identify responsibilities. I quote: "It is not possible, in our rule of law, actions of the public authority, directly and specifically directed at criminal investigation, if they are not carried out under the immediate direction or control of the judiciary." This is one of the assertions with which the Constitutional Court itself annulled, last July, the Navarra law of victims for acts of political motivation caused by public officials. And the parallel between the Navarra law and these regulations that we have in our hands is intimate. My group has tabled five amendments to the proposal for a law, as it did in its day-to-day law 12/2016, in order to be amendments to the whole. A proposal for a law has no amendments to the whole. We wanted to express our opposition to this legislative initiative, and we have already done so in our consideration. Logically, we did not share any of the four articles of the proposal, or the explanatory statement, or the additional articles that then contained, since they start from a law, Law 12/2016, in our unconstitutional opinion, and do not substantially modify the content of it, but rather adapt it to more procedural than substantive needs. We will, of course, vote in favour of our amendments and against the whole bill. In addition, both in the process of drafting Law 12/2016 and in that of this proposal resulting from the withdrawal of the remedy of unconstitutionality, there has been a serious lack of sensitivity to what has been expressed by the professional representation of the Police. They have already expressed their disagreement, their disagreement, but it seems that political insensitivity has neutralized their essential value as the creators of democracy, that democracy we have been building with them too. And this law, consciously or not, tries to seek the contempt of the police. The police, with their virtues and also with their shortcomings, remain one of the pillars on which the rule of law is based, and there will be no procedure or strategy that prevents them from knowing what Basque and Spanish society owes them, which is a lot. The opposite would be a great indignity. And only a judge can say what things went wrong, and never an administrative valuation commission, established, composed... by psychologists or doctors or historians or some non-judge jurist, to know, believe, prove, investigate, prove, the facts or summarize the facts, etc. These issues are reserved for judges when human rights offences or violations are alleged. They're reserved for the judiciary. For the purposes pursued by this law, another type of legislative reform that affects the judiciary, that affects the laws of prosecution, the Criminal Procedure Act, including the Criminal Code; or the protection of the right to honour, the protection of the right to defence... But this law cannot have a pass from our point of view, from the point of view of constitutionality, by integrating it into a text that, through administrative means, seeks to resolve matters of judicial competence. And, as I said before, with this regulation, what is guaranteed is one more step in the contempt of the Ertzaintza, the Civil Guard and the National Police, as it puts them under suspicion in a process in which they will not be able to defend themselves either personally or collectively, or in which they only have testimonies that lead them to an identification, direct or indirect, as responsible for human rights violations. A strategy against his right to honour that the Basque Government had already initiated with the preparation of a report on torture between 1960 and 2014, accounting for 4,113 cases. Especially striking are the 336 attributed to Ertzaintza, without the existence of any court judgement. Therefore, we are talking, it seems, about an attempt to contextualize ETA terrorism, precisely against a group that played a key role in the fight against fanaticism and suffered it in a very direct way. We cannot forget the 368 officers of the Civil Guard, national police and ertzainas murdered by the terrorist gang. For the security forces and bodies of the state, our firm recognition, against those who want to discredit their professional trajectory by weakening the values of our democracy. In summary, despite the aforementioned amendments that are intended to be introduced into the law, this would continue, from our analysis, to incur unconstitutionality for two types of reasons: on the one hand, because Law 12/2016 assigns to the valuation commission a character parallel to the jurisdictional; on the other hand, Title VI of the Spanish Constitution of 78, and in particular Articles 117 and 122, and Article 149.1, enshrine the principle of unity of the judiciary and its configuration as a power of the State; which implies two consequences: The first, that the judicial function is exclusive to judges, and the second, that the State has exclusive competence to regulate judges. On the other hand, Law 12/2016 is also liable – by this means and the application of these articles and of the articles that will arise after the adoption of this proposal of law – to violate, through its application, the fundamental rights protected in article 18 of the Spanish Constitution, the right to honour, and in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, in relation to the right to presumption of innocence and effective judicial protection. Indeed, Madam President, as we have already explained, we have already done so where it corresponds, we do not share this proposal for a law; we do not share the law from which this proposal for a law is based. Of course, it was a mistake that the Spanish Government, the current Spanish Government, withdrew the unconstitutionality appeal, and we will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u3	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u4	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, guests. The Socialist Group wishes to continue, in today's plenary session, with an unfinished task, the task of repairing those who have been neglected by the public authorities when their rights have been violated, the task of strengthening the rule of law which, after succeeding in overcoming terrorism, without having to give up anything in return, is capable of repairing the failures which it has been able to make, and of doing so, moreover, from scrupulous respect for the separation of powers and from guaranteeing the rights of those who have been unjustly violated and the rights to the honour of the forces and security forces of the State. That of doing so from the point of view of competence, which we have that has been expressly endorsed by the Constitutional Court, and that of doing so, in addition, from the agreement between two governments, the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, which is what was done in the past with the decree. It is therefore a pleasure to return to the path of the agreement. And this is what contains the legal amendment that this plenary is going to endorse; nothing else, no other interpretation, no other reading. The Socialists have come to this by democratic conviction and, above all, by political commitment. We come here because we like to look at any issue that affects our fellow citizens, but we also come after we have clearly explained our intentions to the victims referred to in this law, to the victims of terrorism, who have had doubts about their scope or intentions, and to the police groups to whom some have given arguments to be concerned about their honour and the presumption of innocence. With the victims who are the subject of attention in this law, because as a counselor I have had to explain to them since the beginning of this process, that of the decree of the year 2011, which today allows for 187 persons recognized, that neither the Government nor the Parliament will satisfy their demand for justice, which is not our competence, but it is the reparation and recognition. With the victims of terrorism, who have never claimed revenge, what they claim is that their suffering is not diluted in a supposed theory of conflict and in confrontation with other sufferings. And that's something that today's law makes clear. With police representatives, who fear that the adoption of this law will erase the democratic commitment of the agents who have ensured the protection of all and who have succeeded in ending terrorism. And in all these collectives, we detect suspicions and doubts. We all get it. But our job as a party is that those doubts, those concerns, let us leave them settled through a clear law, such as this one today, which strengthens their legal certainty. Legal certainty, because the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 17 August 2018 on the judicial reservation to the criminal order for the investigation of criminal acts, states that, when these investigations are disconnected from the criminal process and that their role is another, not that of their punitive capacity, that is, what the investigation seeks is not to punish with a custodial sentence, which is the case that we are dealing with today expressly, fit perfectly in the Constitution. Security for the victims of terrorism, because this law expressly rejects the theory of conflict; legal security for the victims covered by this law, because it confirms the compensatory and restorative purpose of the modern social and democratic State of law that we have; legal security for the police professionals, because this law expressly excludes that no one can seek to replace the courts and because it guarantees that the compensatory purpose of the victims must be exercised outside the criminal process and disconnected from any claim of punishment to the eventual person responsible for the facts. But in addition to all that we do, we do so with three political references: the unanimous agreement of this Parliament in 2011, which called on the public authorities to establish the precise regulatory measures for the recognition and reparation of these victims. By the way, Mr Barrio, where is the People's Party that voted in favour of that political initiative in this House? The decree of the year 2012, which recognized those who saw their rights violated before the adoption of the Constitution, without any group objecting and without any court having questioned that action. Where is the People's Party I agreed to that decree with? The agreement between the governments of Euskadi and Spain in relation to that decree and in relation to how to direct this law. Where was the People's Party when the agreements between its Government and the Government of Euskadi were so lacking to move forward in coexistence after reaching the end of ETA? And, moreover, the socialists do it from an ethical conviction, because there was never any reason to murder, extort or reap a life, nor to attack the integrity of anyone, neither by ETA nor with ETA's excuse. And with the same firmness we say that the fact that some continue to deny, that is, without recognizing the injustice of ETA, is no excuse for those who suffer from the terrorist gang to recognize the injustice of any violation of rights by abuse or by inhibition of public authorities. On all these issues it is proposed that the law that we are going to adopt, taking into account the doctrine of the Constitution, the doubts that this court had about six specific issues of our law and the criteria that it had already established about some other rule, such as the Navarra – and, Mr. Barrio, they do not look like anything – which sought a similar end, but had followed a wrong path and which has led the Constitutional to clarify certain issues that are settled in this rule. Because the law annulled in Navarre does not serve us as an example, no matter how hard some engage. It is no use for us to set as an example what is no longer in force. If you want to enter into discussion with others why you have made a rule that you have now assumed that it does not satisfy the victims, that it has not been useful and why in the end you have taken the path that we have taken here in Euskadi. But it cannot be an argument to oppose this law, simply because they are not the same and also because of another fundamental thing that I have pointed out to you, because, unlike what happened in Navarre, in the case of our law, of everything that was resorted to at the time, there were only six specific questions on which they remained in doubt and are the six that today we make clear with the modifications. What we are discussing today is not the motivation or the object of the law, as the PP now seems to claim, but some concrete things that clear up the doubts raised. That is what we are doing: offering a safe path and upholding the rule of law, the Constitution that prevents degrading treatment of people, the Statute that offers us instruments to compensate those who have been unprotected. The rule of law, the Constitution and the Statute, which others committed themselves to denigrating and killing, and which are once again opening up. Which of these issues do the People's Party not like? You don't like the evaluation board or its functions? Because in this the Constitution has already spoken to us clearly, it has already told us that the criminal investigation of criminal acts is subject to a judicial reservation, but that it is possible to set up a commission of inquiry with the sole purpose of redressing the victim's condition, for the purposes of redress. There are many cases where this has already happened in many areas, such as civilians, and it is clear that the work of this commission is not to punish those responsible for the possible crimes, but to compensate those who have suffered the consequences of those acts. Or has the commission not done so that has allowed the recognition of 187 victims and that was supported by the People's Party? What has changed, Mr. Barrio? Don't you like to recognize our ability to compete? It is something that the Constitution has not called into question, but the People's Party, in fact, has an interesting streak in questioning all our competences and today it seems that it also questions what we have in the area of community development, in the area of health or social assistance, because it is on those that this law is based and not on others. Why do you sow suspicions about the possibility of an appeal? Those who feel affected by any resolution will be able to appeal it, like any other administrative decision. So let us leave the suspicions and hidden interests, which are not; let us stop using those who have suffered as an instrument of political action. If we are human rights defenders, let there be no half inks. If our commitment to the democratic system and the constitutional order is firm, let us not stand up to those who question its strength. And with the same force that we reject that there have been systematic violations of human rights by the public authorities, the Socialists reject that there are marked distances from the violations that could have been committed. And with that conviction we call for the House's support for the legal amendments we have proposed, which seek to strengthen our rule of law, which seek to accommodate constitutional doctrine and our competences. That is what we are voting for today, and we should stick to that in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, counselors, fellow congressmen, to all of you who have come. I will try to explain our sense of vote in this imperfect amendment of law, in which the constant threat of the Constitutional Court at every step has conditioned the exploration of surely fairer and more humane legal paths. Harmony Nire, Honekikoa law, Aspalditik debtor. Orain de la hiru urte etorri nintzen Legebiltzar honetara, Giza Eskubideen Batzordera, nire iritzia biktima gisa ematera, giza eskubide larrien biktima gisa nire iritzia ematera. They've been in our kisses, gaur was exactly dut. They are new: "These kinds of laws will allow us to heal the physical and psychological wounds of all the people we have suffered and, above all, they will be able to prevent future human rights violations." Hiru urte would've missed it. Orina, legebiltzarkidea naiz; hala eta guztiz ére, berreten ditto nire hitzak. And I keep thinking about what I said: we need a therapeutic law that expands the paths of social healing. We must continue to work to make the principle of equal rights for all victims a reality. That means that everyone must enjoy the right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And, as we know, for the time being, with this rule that we are going to vote on, those rights are not fulfilled, even if there is a judicial truth. For decades, certain persons vested with authority, far from being the guarantors of the law, have become violators of the law and the set of values that make up the rule of law, also having effective possibilities to hinder any investigation. And with the amendment of this law, it is not simply that this right to know the truth is impeded, but it is directly prohibited. There is no denying the facts, the facts that occurred, no matter how different the interpretations are made of those facts. But such interpretations should not tarnish a truth that helps to prevent the past from repeating itself. And I wonder: how can we strengthen the judicial and administrative mechanisms that allow victims to obtain these rights of truth, justice and reparation, through fair and accessible official procedures, taking advantage of either the international framework, the European supranational, the state or this, the nearest, our autonomous parliament? Of course, in my view, the best mirror we can look at is international human rights law. We know that the right of victims and society to know the truth about events is essential in a process of restorative justice and reconciliation. The truth does not have to remain in the most intimate circle of the victims, but has to be recognized, officially and publicly, thus increasing their validity. The right to justice implies, first, investigation and, secondly, the right to justice, requiring States to take measures to prevent impunity in the face of serious and systematic violations of human rights. And it is that impunity has devastating effects on the victims of human rights violations. We are aware that the right to reparation is not going to solve all the problems. Certain consequences of serious human rights violations are irreparable in both their individual and collective dimensions. In some cases, injuries are of such a nature that, to the greatest extent possible, victims can learn to live with that pain. Generally, governments are betting on a short and limited period of time in which to resolve the issue of reparation. On the other hand, the victims place the emphasis on knowing the truth and doing justice. Reparation programmes must be conceived as continuous processes, not as a concrete moment in which certain symbolic acts are carried out and some kind of aid is given to the victims. Although these three rights (truth, justice and reparation) are independent and admit separate compliance, they are increasingly seen today as interrelated elements and must necessarily be present in the processes in which it is a matter of overcoming a past plagued by human rights violations. A combination of these three rights may be best suited to the ever-difficult path of reconciliation, after years of lack of respect for basic human rights. It is true that every victim is a world, and every particular type of human rights violation; but if we learn anything in Glencree and in Eraikiz, it is that everyone has the same right to be recognized, to their dignity and to reparation. And, today, there is an asymmetrical situation in that recognition. Victims of human rights violations in contexts of illegal repression continue to be in a precarious situation. We have acted responsibly, and although we did not agree at all with the restrictive interpretation of the Constitutional Court, our amendments have adhered to that doctrine; they have not come out of it, so we do not understand very well that none of our six amendments tabled by the parties supporting the Government have been accepted. You always tell us that the legal framework is what it is, and that we have no competence to legislate in any other way, since it is the competence of the State. But, I wonder: what happens when a State that cannot claim its domestic law to deny what it has signed in an international treaty ignores and does not respect its own laws? And it is that the Constitutional Court, in an insidious and sybilian way, is what it does, by preventing the equal rights of victims of serious human rights violations. If we take stock of human rights violations in our recent history, we note that, when the offender commits the crime on behalf of or protected by the State, the legal consequences do not respect the principle of proportionality, equality and non-arbitrariness; that is, they do not respect their own laws by acting unjustly and inhumanly. We must reverse that situation. That is why we are in politics, seeking alternative formulas, such as those we have tried to establish with the amendments that are now being rejected. Why did I explain all this? For a very simple reason: the amendment of the law that is to be passed today is that of a law that was already incomplete in its origin, in 2016. It is a law that was made, not with a vocation of integral reparation, but of partial support and with what was well believed to be possible; a law that does not allow access to justice and that, far from seeking that healing of society as a whole, offered only a truth with tiny, an administrative truth, a truth as in little. And, today, that limited law is changed, and it's done this way. But still, it's a law. It is the only law that we have many of us, and that little reparation and truth that it offers us represents so much for those who have had so little for so long that no parliamentary game should put it at risk. That's why Elkarrekin We can abstain to make it easier for this law to avoid the danger of being cut even further, or even laid down by the Constitutional Court. I would therefore like to remind the Basque Government that this law is not the solution that victims of human rights violations in a context of political motivation need. And besides, you already know that. I therefore consider it necessary to continue working, seeking genuine recognition and full reparation for all victims, regardless of who the perpetrator was. All I have to remind you is that we have left you some duties to do in this and subsequent legislatures. Of course, count on this group to work, to recover democratic justice and reduce suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. My most blatant, most absolute disregard for the corporate organizations of state bodies and security forces, which are lobbying
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u9	A ver... Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u10	Organizations that are looking for...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u11	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u12	... total impunity, total cover-up, for terrorism and the most serious human rights violations they have perpetrated themselves. For me, you are the (...) who protest because there was a trial in Nuremberg. For me, you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u13	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u14	... are the (...) who protest because there is an international court of justice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u15	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u16	For me, you are the franchisors who fight to ensure that there is no recognition of your human rights violations. This is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u17	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u18	Esto es inaceptable, this is embarrassing, it's disgusting, it's disgusting! Unbearable!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u19	Silence, silence, please! Please be quiet. It is in the use of the word; it is in the use of the word! Silence, silence, silence! You'll shut up, Mr. Azuga, quiet, we'll all calm down, we'll all chill out. Please! Please, the one in the audience who please feels; if you want to stay in the plenary, you feel. You don't have the word, you don't have the word, Urruino, you don't have the word! No, you don't have the word. Urzuno, please shut up, please stop, you don't have the word! One, you don't have the word. Quiet, please! Two, you don't have a word, but the third time you go out, you don't have a word. The guests are invited, and they have a right to be there. Silence... the higher ones too, the same... Shut up, please, shut up, please, shut up! Mr. Estarrona to the street, Monsieur Estarrona to the street, to the street, to the street, to the street, to the street. No, out, out! Others don't, do they? We'll continue, we'll continue, or we'll cancel the plone. We'll keep going, right? And whoever will not hear, let him go out who will not, but let him go out. He can't come in, not the top ones that can't go with the lower ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u20	Can't I say what I feel? That's the point. Can't I say what I think here? Because some of them are here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u21	Exactate, that's why I left you. That's why I left you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u22	I don't know which ones are here. That's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u23	That's why I left you. That's why I left you. Yeah, I'll give it to you!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u24	I don't know if you'll let me. Can I continue? That's disgusting!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u25	The upper classes cannot enter with the lower ones; the lower ones respect the upper ones, it is evident, but the members of the legislature who have the word will know what it means. And we will begin and continue in the holy peace. Mr. Arzuga, respect, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u26	Respect? ! Respect for my word and what I think and what this parliamentary has to say. Thank you, also, and the most sensitive welcome to the victims of the terrorism, violence, and human rights; welcome this home. I am willing to offer you all our protection and all our solidarity, and that we will do our word as best we can, that you may have all the truth, justice, and observation you deserve. Konstatazio bat egin nahi dut, gaur ending hours askotan ebiliko dellako: ez zarete gehiegikerien edo abusiveen biktimak, gaur ebiliko bada ere goitizen mingarri hori. You're not victims of abuse, it was more than just an abuse that you suffered. And I also appeal to the media, to political commentators, to opinion makers, to Tertullians, to political parties not to label this law as police abuse, but to call it by its name, the Human Rights Victims Act. The laws are usually nicknamed to ridicule them, and it is logical that those who oppose them do so, but I find it strange that it is the proponents themselves; those who push this law, who impose a pseudonym, who, in addition, try to reduce the seriousness of what you have suffered, of such vile treatment, of such terrorism, of these very serious violations of human rights, which, in addition, have to be recognized as such in themselves, because of the importance they had in themselves, and in comparison with what other victims have suffered. In themselves, because I refuse to consider that the tortures, as an example, of Joxe Arregi, without taking into account the suffering that you have undoubtedly felt, those tortures of Joxe Arregi were mere abuses. I cannot understand that the odious circumstances that occur in the death and disappearance of Joxi and Joxean, Lasa eta Zabala, or the case of Mikel Zabalza, were mere abuse. But I do not understand it in comparison to the treatment given to other victims, in which cases terrorism was practised without palliative measures. The same fact suffered by other victims, the same murder committed by an author, in this state case, by a police officer, is going to be a kind of arbitrariness, it is going to be a kind of overreaction, a mere abuse. And what I want to say is that we must recognize you in the whole entity and in the depth of what you have suffered. For the question we have with this law is this, and there is the question: There's a promotion to the victims. In the law of the victims of terrorism, in this law of 29/2011, there is a great and extensive investigation and indemnity given to both of them. for though they are also involved in it, the victims of the Gyllen or Batallón Vasalco, are still obliged to fight, because they are still bound to fight for their rights. And the point is that with this law 12/2016, which we now examine, there will be much less reconnaisssance and observation that will be given to you. The gradation between the victims is established, and we see it to-day. Moreover, this law has not been introduced in force, and we have already begun to make restrictions. We've already committed this law. And thus this category will be given to certain victims the fear of terrorism; others will be victims of human rights; others will be victims of abuse, and others will be given zero, as some may desire, because they will have no apprehension at all. It is true: the victim is seldom treated, but we see that in this law the perfecter is treated with all reverence. By this law, the Peripulators, who committed crimes in the name of the Common-wealth, are protected with full protection. It is mentioned three times in this form of Law, that the honour of these Descriptors is three times mentioned in this form of Law, and is said to give them all security. And this, I think, is really painful. Do you imagine that if the law against terrorism were to be mentioned, the honor and security of the members of the community will be treated with all the rights and rights of the community? Well, I suppose some of the victims would have gone out of the way to tell you an insult, a humiliating... or, after all, But in this case, as I say, the honour of the perfecter is three times cited in this law. And that is why we say that, in this reform, it seems to have weighed more on the demand to reinforce the victim's honour than on the dignity of the victim. And, once the victims have seen that they were offered this recognition in this law, they have already wanted to ask absolutely everything: their repeal, that it be disregarded, and that, therefore, there is no form of reparation and recognition to the victims. And here we have them: groups that do not want the victims of the most serious human rights violations to be recognized, that they have perpetrated and that are now claiming their total impunity. They have also met with all the groups in this House, less with EH Bildu, with which I am also proud, and with some, in addition, they have managed to take some photographs from them, which I find absolutely regrettable. On the victims' side, on the side of the victim, this is, as it were, the incomposibary which is intended to be sought in this law. There are victims, but there won't be a victim. There's torture, but there's no torturer. There is a run, but there is no executer. Therefore we cannot agree in this law; therefore it is impossible for us to vote for it. We can't even vote against it, because maybe that would have tied us up, lined us up... especially with the Popular Party. So in general our position is known. Let's play on the Absten. But yes, I'd like to mention what happened to Article 1. In committee, with the majority vote, it was approved to repeal article 1 of this law, because it explains to us that the accreditation of human rights violations will not be able to ignore the already settled criminal jurisdiction. This gives us three problems, which I want to keep on top of this table, because this debate frankly we have not had. We've been in the papers, we've been in committee, but we haven't talked about this: The first problem that creates us is that we are mixing precisely what we want to separate: we are mixing criminal jurisdiction with the administrative order; we are mixing the judicial truth, which must be imposed in criminal court to impose a punishment, with administrative recognition to seek reparation, which must be done from an institution. So, a bad technique. Secondly, because this will make it difficult for the evaluation committee to do its work. My question is: can you come to a conclusion that is contrary to what a criminal sentence says? Because two scenarios are open: the first, that there are many victims who are going to stay out of recognition, all those victims who have a sentence that denies the facts or considers them accidental or perhaps lawful or legitimate, and, on the other hand, if the commission dares to contradict what a criminal decision says, we have secured the conflict. These associations are going to resort to the courts; they are going to go to the administrative litigation, to appeal the decisions of the valuation commission, precisely so that they do what they want, that there is no recognition and reparation for these victims. That's why we'll keep this opposite voice, so we ask Podemos to maintain his position on the committee, because I don't really think that Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u27	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u28	And, as I say, when the rest of the world is, we're going to have abscessation. Just a little comment. It is true that we arrived at a middle-way agreement to re-open a single additional formation, in order that the victims of 60-78 should re-requestion and observation, which I approve, at least, will be favourable to our vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. I must say, before I give the word, that the legislature has a word in the court, and has an opportunity of defending what it seems to be. But even those who visit them are respected, and all the words which have been insulting in this respect will be withdrawn, as is my choice. [[Berber]] That's my choice. Mr. Arzuga, I've let you talk, because I think that's your right. I let you talk, did you say I have a right? Yeah, and I let you talk. But some words that have been said there will be retired from the camp. Yes, it's my competition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u30	What words have been insulting?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u31	Those who have been insulting will be retired. (... ) You can't call anyone. No one can call. [[Berber]] Quiet, please. Let's move on. [[Berber]] One of them has insulted the other. Please, silence! Silence! Please, silence! Please! Mr. Iturate, your word is yours. Quiet, please. Silence... Quiet, please. Silence, please! No, half a minute. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u32	You're gonna take Jule's Arzuaga's words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u33	Words that have been insulted...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u34	What insult is, and what is not, may be a subjective thing. And what I ask of you is that he who has said in the parliamentary Azuagas said in Jule, that he should be fully and fully received, as he has said, and if he consider the offence, what he has said is an insult to what we have seen from here. One must receive all who say in his action, and I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u35	Bear wave. I have said that those words which are insulting will be withdrawn from the record, so the dispute is over. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all who came from outside. True, justice and attention. How easy these rights are to be spoken of to all the victims, but how hard it is to guarantee all these rights, and to show how difficult it is to see what is really difficult at present. It's been almost three years since we agreed to the law, and we're still here trying to make an effort to do that, not easy attempts at all. Instead of agreeing to the process of perception, it's an incomprehensible attitude of some people, and this time it's over again. Some seek to prevent the law in any case by voting against the law and introducing appeals to the Constitutional Court. Others, on the other hand, wish to bring the trial to an extreme, by shouldering the real dangers that are, and ignoring the real engagement with the victims. I repeat to the popular party: the law does not annul the criminal process; the law does not deny the sense of innocence; the law wishes to give the law an answer to victims, by using our indefinite jurisdictions. The question is simple: Does the popular party acknowledge these victims, or does he not confess them? Yes or no? And if he confesses, what has he hitherto done to develop their rights? The popular party has hitherto merely made an obstacle. The amendments put forward by the People's Party seek only to empty the content of the law. Let us speak clearly: nullifying the powers of the valuation commission means leaving the law without content. And when Mr Barrio says that we are looking for the creation of a judicial system, he lacks the truth and does so consciously, because he knows that the commission is not an independent forum whose mission is to investigate facts. He knows that we are proposing an expert body to evaluate the files and accreditations that the applicant citizens for recognition and assistance submit to him for consideration. To value is not to investigate, and less to judge. Don't twist reality, Mr. Barrio. Finding and fixing criminal acts is the responsibility of the judiciary, and this law expressly leaves it said, that this is not its objective. You, however, twist the facts to try to avoid in practice the social care action that public administrations can and should develop. Public administrations can and should deploy their social protection mission. That's what this is about, and the law makes it clear, and you know it. And you know that assuming the PP amendments would mean nullifying any capacity to the law. We have already talked about all this; there have been many debates on this subject, but I will tell you again. Forecasts such as those established by this law are literally accepted, word-for-word, in virtually all rules for the reparation and recognition of victims, state or international. For starters, it is literally recognized by the Congressional Victims of Terrorism Act. In its article 3 bis, Law 29/2011 establishes the requirements for being declared victims of terrorism. And it says: firstly, that this right should be recognized by a final judgement; or, secondly, that, in the absence of a final judicial decision, the status of victim before the Administration can be established "by any means of evidence admissible in law". I repeat: any means of proof admissible in law. And that is precisely the expression that you intend to delete with one of your amendments. You want to eliminate something that literally captures the Victims of Terrorism Act. This is to try to obstruct the application of the law; this is to try to avoid, in practice, the recognition of victims. But not just this law. Article 2 of the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Violent Crime states that "persons who have suffered serious injury, damage to their health, as a direct result of an intentional crime of violence shall be compensated". He adds that "this compensation shall be granted even if the author cannot be prosecuted or punished". The same applies to the regulations for victims of violent crimes and against sexual freedom. Accepting your argument, Mr Barrio, the victims, for example, of macho violence could not receive public assistance from public administrations in the absence of a firm sentence. And that barbarity wouldn't think of defending anyone. But it is also recognized by international humanitarian law, more specifically UN Resolution 60/147, on the rights of victims, article 9 of which literally states: "A person shall be considered a victim, regardless of whether the perpetrator of the violation has been identified, apprehended, tried or convicted". Therefore, the question to the People's Party remains: do these victims exist or do they not exist? And if they exist, what has the People's Party done so far to repair them? So far, all they have done is try to prevent – by all means, yes – the recognition and reparation of these victims. All they have actually done, Mr Barrio, is deny the existence of these victims. This, in one corner and at the other end, is exactly the same. The amendments introduced do not help in the way of revision and observation, and knowing what dangers are in the way, you are apt to abuse them. If we know that we shall act with all care and commitment, others prefer the most pure Virgin Mary, or at the present day of St. Cruz, organising this particular game. Knowing we're going to put on our boots and make them dirty, you're still pretending. A lot of round phrases and fat proposals, but knowing we'll make sure of confession and observation. We're doing the job, and you're just pretending. We've done it clean, and we've said it clearly: This is not the law that the Galpistan Party would have liked. We know that there is still a long way to guarantee all rights to all victims. We know that these victims have been rejected for a long time, silent, hidden. We know all that. But in front of this there are two possibilities: pretending, and continuing behind the banner proclaiming all rights, or working, putting on boots, and making the way. You pretend and we step by step, slower than we would like, but always forward, always strong, without endangering the rights of the victims. Mr. Arzuaga, passing a law is not to press a abstention button. A law must pass a system of controls and contrasts; a law is subject to the principle of contradiction. This law is introduced into a complex and difficult territory; it affects wounds of the past; I know. And the management of the past is the most complicated, most complex part... of the normalization of cohabitation, and we are living it these years in the Presentation of Memory and Cohabitation. What am I going to tell you, that it's still so hard for you to recognize that what happened was unfair? But, talking about brushing and doing it in a derogatory way, as you do, involves getting confused about reality. You criticize and abstain; you get great, raising the edge of demand to where you know it's inviable. That's right, they're great at knowing that others take the lead in the law. They play safe, because they know that others are going to realize the rights of the victims. But you guys are great here. Here, yes... But, in the Parliament of Navarre, not so great. There you, EH Bildu and Podemos – or the Podemos of Navarre too – vote in favour of a law that looks like this as two drops of water, and that has the same caution regarding the right to honor as our law. They have voted yes there, and even some of the Socialist Party's amendments that are presented to the contents of this law, defending the same arguments that I am using here today. This incoherent, inconsistent behavior – and I would say diletting – is the definitive proof of the lack of sincerity of today's words. I'm done. I have recognized that we are on a difficult path. This law is on a difficult path. We are trying to ensure their full legal security, because the victims deserve it and deserve it now. What matters is the purpose of the law. The important thing is the recognition and care reparation of the victims to whom protection and coverage are offered. This is a good law, it was before and it is now, and while you abstain, this law has obtained the support of important jurists and international organizations, the support of Amnesty International, the explicit support of Fabian Salvioli, UN rapporteur for the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. These people and entities support the law; they support this step forward, while you dilettantes abstain. Our object is clear: to confess the victims of the privileges of human rights, and continue in the way of payment. This law is only a step; it is not the end of the road, but at all costs we shall do it, and we shall do the work of this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Look, never in the history of this Parliament has the public been insulted, the people who come to this House to attend, to follow, their debates, as today. We have never seen such a capacity of insult, of contempt, as today and, of course, we do have to say that the one who has been insulted is one of the pillars of the rule of law, the representation of one of the pillars of democracy, of our National Police, Civil Guard, Ertzaintza; that is what has happened today in this House. Never in the history of this Parliament has it been insulted in this way and, of course, what we have to do, fundamentally at this time, is condemn the insults and the serious and insulting words spoken by the representative of Bildu, and which, as I said in my first speech, constitute that strategy that will be achieved: a step in despicableness, in seeking, in trying to try, to discredit the bodies and security forces of the State, the Autonomous Police, that is the end that, unfortunately, an ill-made law can achieve. Look, Mrs Mendia, you haven't convinced me, you haven't convinced me; I think you've made a big mistake, from the beginning, with this regulation. And they have done so in an increased way now by agreeing to withdraw a remedy of unconstitutionality, for political purposes, from an issue that needed a clear judicial ruling, and the Constitutional Court was the best formula for knowing where we were, how we were and what were the keys to that law, Law 12/2016, to which, of course, this proposed law that you present has not helped. We already know that this law does not present, does not seek, directly, to identify suspected culprits, but yes, and you know it, will manage to place a nebula of guilt on a group of people perfectly identifiable by the investigation of the valuation commission and by its report/sentence: you know it perfectly, that there will be... It is going to point to the guilt of people and you know it perfectly well, after the process, the procedure and the report/sentence of that assessment commission. It is quite clear that this judgment, that report/sentence, will not, in principle, be directly guilty against any person, but indirectly, by recognizing, after the resolution of the case, another person, a number of economic rights because they have been – according to the administrative evaluation commission – mistreated in judicial units on a day D, at an hour H, and with persons P. That's the key: it's going to be declared that one day D, one hour H, in a place L, someone was mistreated and, consequently, someone was responsible. Okay, and all in a simple administrative analysis, no judges, no prosecutors, no defense lawyers, no defendants at all, no defendants. I mean, who's gonna be the culprit? So, no more or less than those which the valuation commission gives in the final decision of the case to be decided. That's clear, Mrs. Mendia. An analysis should be made of how the procedure will work in that assessment committee, through the collection of testimony, such evidence and the final report. And that's going to be declaratory of guilt and identification of responsibilities. You know that perfectly well. Mrs. Zabala, a therapeutic law, for I do not know: that will be a new law; I understand it. But a therapeutic law does not create a para-judicial system, and this creates a para-judicial system. We want a law with all guarantees, and an autonomous law does not make fundamental rights, that certain issues, can be regulated with all guarantees, and that is so. That is why we ask the Constitutional Court to examine it. We would have preferred not to have adopted such initiatives and that it would have been another body, the Congress of Deputies, another series of sentences, another series of laws, organic laws, the Criminal Prosecution Act; that is, even the Constitution itself, determines a number of issues. But not an autonomous law in that sense. Those are the risks we see. And, Mr. Iturrate. Constitutional Court and Navarra, you say the parallelism there is. That is, the Constitutional Court said that they are not possible in our rule of law, because of the parallelism between the Navarra law and this law, Law 12/2016 and this amendment... "in our rule of law, actions of the public authority, directly and specifically directed at criminal investigation, are not possible if they are not carried out under the immediate direction or control of the judiciary." And the review board's investigations are going to be criminal investigations. You know it; you all know it. And that can't be done by a valuation commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u40	First of all, I would like to thank the collectives, who, with their work, their dedication, have made it easier for these gentlemen to insult them today and to be able to insult them freely from this rostrum and to be seated in this House. So thank you very much for the work you have done in favour of Spanish democracy. And my political contempt for those who today... Of whom you have forgotten, it is of the victims, to whom you have done the worst favor today, with the speech you have made from this rostrum, to the victims whom this law seeks to make amends and reparations. It is a real shame what has been done from this rostrum today. And I also believe that in this rostrum, in the years I have been in this House, the truth is that I have always understood that we can speak freely to parliamentarians; but, of course, we cannot establish a debate with those who attend as guests to this rostrum, to the rostrums of this House, and who are also defenceless, because they cannot take the floor. Today we have witnessed a regrettable act of political use. And an "antzerki" by several groups in this House. I'm actually... First of all, this law and this debate, of course, is not a trial for Spanish democracy, because Spanish democracy, the only democratic anomaly that has suffered in all these years, unfortunately, is the existence of a terrorist gang. A terrorist gang with social support, supported by a political party, and which, today, we are still in this House, with a group that is unable to recognize the injustice of killing, kidnapping and extortion in the past. Therefore, this is what we are still witnessing today, and we see that much work remains to be done. And besides, I think we've forgotten... and those of us who have been in this House's memoir in this legislature have listened to the victims, and the victims what they mainly demand and demand is recognition and reparation, and that is what this law has to claim. Mr Carmelo Barrio, look, few legal arguments have you put on the table, in this rostrum, today: you have established "the one who else"; you have cast more ink and more doubts on the work of the state security forces and bodies... I believe that as we further strengthen the rule of law and Spanish democracy... And what differentiates us, because you and I agree, I believe that essentially: you and I agree that we must recognize the victims of terrorism and the victims of human rights violations. It seems to me that what distance us today in this debate is that, when we have to pass this law to start the path of recognition in the second period, that is where you begin to have the problems. But I think we basically agree, and that is why I think you should reconsider your political position. And I keep insisting: you are the one who is putting the most nebulae of guilt on top of the bodies and security forces of the State, because the law and the commission of appraisal, the decree and the one that initiates the adoption of this law, is a commission that has the right to investigate and the members of the Constitutional Court say, because investigations are made under Spanish civil law and international law, and there are a multitude of cases, outside criminal proceedings, of investigations that will seek economic reparation and the recognition of the victim's right in cases such as railway accidents, civil aviation accidents, and we have had recent cases in Spain about it. And they are technical committees of technical experts, whose sole purpose is to establish the clarification of the facts in order to be able to compensate and establish who have been victims of these accidents, to clarify the facts, and for this to be done an investigation, logically, and there is the procedure established by the law of the valuation commission, because a public administration has a duty to do so with legal guarantees. One cannot reach a window, say he is a victim and be economically repaired and compensated, and have access to health benefits, etc. So that is what this is about, and that is what we are talking about, and that is also what the Constitutional Court is talking about very clearly. So let's not manipulate. Another thing is that you do not want to pass this law, or you do not want to move along the path that you started doing in 2011 and that I agreed with the People's Party and I agreed with the People's Party government. And you now seem to like the decree; then you didn't like it so much. I therefore believe that we have forgotten here today the centrality of what we are, that it is the recognition of unfair suffering, the recognition of victims, the delegitimization of terrorism, the enhancement of democratic institutions and the rule of law, and what always differentiates us from the Democrats, who are capable of purifying ourselves. And, Mrs Zabala, representative of the Elkarrekin Group We can, here we do not come to speak as victims, because as victims there are many in this House, present and in the past, who could do so in their personal capacity as victims. Because there have been many victims in this country. But here we come to seek reparation and recognition with this law, not to make personal statements, to do a job on behalf of the citizens who bring us to these seats. That's what we come to, and that's why we do it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Together, Podemos, madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u42	Thank you. First, the first word that comes out of my senses and my heart for you: It's a pity what happened here today. There are still so many wounds. And it is true: here we do not come to talk about us, about what we have suffered and have tried not to talk about me. What happens is that one can't get rid of 35 years of his life. And I would like to recall a paragraph of Judge Joaquín Jiménez's judgment, which said: "During 1983, the Ministry of the Interior was opening the way for the idea of accepting violent actions against refugees in southern France as a means of ending them, of obtaining detention in France and the transfer to Spain, in order to obtain information, even if it was then necessary to make them disappear, in order to prevent the facts from being discovered, using some of the members of the security forces, who showed themselves in agreement with all this." Eta orin, Carmelo Barrio jauna, nik Bakarrik esango said there is no memory without victims or victims without memory. It is a way of saying that there can be no memory policies that do not start from the centrality of the testimony of the victims, of them and of other victims; nor can it be that we have victims without memory, as I said. And what is being debated today is this second: whether the victims of serious human rights violations, such as torture, enforced disappearance, ill-treatment... They have memory or they don't have memory. You'll see if you want to keep denying it. Neither I nor my group will ever deny or justify the suffering that other people in this House have suffered, because their suffering was so unjust as their suffering. No more or less. Mendia andrea, iruditzen zait pixka bat lekuz kanpo egon say zure hitzak. And it is that memory is uncomfortable, as I have just said; it is politically incorrect, as I have pointed out again, and it can even be seen as dangerous, as it confronts us with those demons and those shames of the past, a past which on many occasions It has been given overly complacent interpretations. Mr. Arzuga, really, my emotions are still shaking. We haven't lived like this in a long time, and we've come back to the years of the past. How many wounds, how many paths... it still remains for us to do it. Unfortunately, neither politicians, nor police, are the most important people here, you are the ones who have to confess to you in the law, and who need attention and recognition. That's what we're going to do, at least in our hearts, what we're trying to do. Iturrate jauna, askotan hitz egin dugu marko konpetentzialaz, of the unstoppable or unsustainable wall. I think sometimes you have to try to find ways to avoid it. Sometimes, this mantra has spread that the peace process no longer gives hope, that it no longer interests citizens, that it is no longer as urgent as a few years ago. Sentitzen dut, bath argi dago begi-bistakoa of the hemenindik samina ikaragarri handia dagoela, jarraitu behar dugula, hau ez da egun battik beast gainitzen in history bat; zauriak hor daude, sentabideak hor daude. I said therapeutic law, Carmelo Barri, because the laws produce emotions, they produce emotions, and it is evident that this law produces an extraordinary emotion. An enormous, salty emotion, and unfortunately we're not going anywhere that way. What we have to achieve is what we have to do in a democratic state of justice, and what we have to do is to clear the political and the people. That's why we're here. Horretan zurekin teen nago, Mendia andrea. We need a democratic regeneration from top down, from bottom up, but above all from top down. That is the most important, that is the one that we need, and that is the one that I still believe we are not fully prepared to grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Mendia, may I speak freely? Because that's what I've been trying to do. Do they grant me freedom so that I can speak in this Parliament? Does the freedom to speak granted by the State's security forces and bodies? Do I have to thank you for that? Do they decide whether I can talk or not? Because, indeed, if that is your point of view, if that is your interpretation of what Spanish democracy is, indeed, I do not want it. It is a shame that this debate is given in equal space, at least in equal ways, between the victims and between the victims, and that is what I meant by thick words, because the fact that has occurred here today obliged me to do so. It has been said that I have poured insults, I want to know them, I want to know what have been the insults I have poured; I am curious to know them. But they have been outraged words, because it seemed to me that what happened to me here today was really outrageous. I want to respond calmly to Mr Carmelo Barrio, because it is not a problem of form, it is not a problem of legal technique, as he seems to have brought; it is not a problem of wanting to supplant justice, it is not of wanting to make a paralegal law. The problem is that Justice has been absolutely absent from these victims, and this has also been demonstrated by nine judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which have said that Spain has never had any intention, any interest, to investigate very serious human rights violations. Your problem is not that of the legal technique, your problem is not of form, your problem is of substance, and your problem is the story, and it is that the only violence in this country has managed it, it has generated it, ETA, and it seems that for you if there are other violences that are flourishing, because that story loses belle, it loses water; it seems that the violence of ETA is uncontextualized, and it seems that you prefer to make a story without truth, without victims, without all the victims, without those victims that are annoying to you. And if the victims are taken away from him and the context is taken away from him, for indeed, the remaining account is the PP's account, but it is not the one that is going to come out of this House. A la señora le que que que que que, I speak with emotion, but not only with emotion, but I wanted to know if you would keep your position at the Human Rights Committee the other day, and with that position some victims would have been taken care of, and if you change that voice, some victims would be excluded. And, at least, I didn't talk to you from emotions, but from a very practical point of view, and I am sorry you didn't answer and now I'll see what the meaning of your voice is. But I'm sorry, after all, that we haven't quarreled about it, and we don't take advantage of it here at least to discuss it. And it's the same for me with Mr. Iturate, he's accusing me of pretending, but you haven't even told me, but you haven't argued, if we're going to try him here today, whether more or less victims will be ignored, and I challenge you, and there'll be fewer victims with this reform you've brought here today. And that's what I call "mighty," and that's what I call reducing. I'm sorry, but it'll be like that. And it's not that we get great; it's that we get tough, that we get ambitious and that we don't like that some victims, for this reform, are going to stay out. And it will be up to us, perhaps, to bring another reform to this law so that those victims who are staying on the road will be recovered again and brought back to this debate. I tell you seriously: I would have preferred to reach an agreement with you; I would have preferred not to have the position that you now reserve for me, which is that of the "I said it", but to have reached with you, after a debate, an agreement, in which you could say "I didn't say it", but "we solved it", with responsibility. What happens is that you came from another game, you came from Madrid, from making a pact there with some votes besides that you did not have in this House, and then try to pass the reform that they sign there because let's see with what votes. And, of course, as we told you very soon that we were not going to oppose this law, because you have already avoided reaching any kind of agreement or reaching any kind of debate, even with us, something that seems inconsistent to me. Mrs. Idoia Mendia says that the law of Nafarroa is completely different, and you say that they are similar laws. And, well, then, at this time that you have left, at this turn, I hope you will explain it to me. Vuelvo a decir: the road is not finished, but one must push them to the rescue and attention of all the victims, and the EH Collect will push them to the future to be so. This time it won't be like that. We'll be working on the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u46	The CEO. Well, it seems that today all the demons of our most recent past have sunk into this Chamber, and this has on several occasions been more like a catharsis or some sort of performance. Mr Barrio, the Navarra law – these contradictions that you pointed out – which I am referring to is the one that was passed on 21 March 2019, that is, 20 days ago, on which the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled... You spoke, but I say that one law to the other looks like two drops of water, our law and the law of the Navarro Parliament passed just 20 days ago, which you, you, the People's Party, the Navarra right, also voted against, because you continue to refuse to recognize the existence of these victims. You insist on twisting the truth, because there is no paralegal system, and the law says it expressly: it does not seek to investigate the facts, it does not seek to purify responsibilities, it does not seek to point out victims... And it is one of the tasks that remains for the powers of the State: to face impunity that has been on... Yes, but the powers of the state that you have held and held, held and held, with both meanings, you for years and years. And it's an outstanding task. We don't mean that, look. In fact, the Basque public administration, today, has already recognized and repaired 187 victims through the decree, recognized by a commission of evaluation almost equal to that established in this law. Has any rights been harmed? Has anyone been found guilty? Has anyone's rights been violated? Has there been criminal investigation or supplantation of judges and courts? No, no, There hasn't been, and you know it. And knowing that, they insist on something that's a lie. And all because they prefer to twist the truth, distort reality, with the sole aim of concealing their lack of recognition and their lack of commitment to these victims, with the truth, with the investigation and their lack of commitment to ending the impunity that exists around these crimes. Mr. Arzuaga, the changes introduced do not alter the universe of the victims at all. The article states that "the content of judicial decisions already handed down cannot be ignored". Of course, of common sense. The commission must take into account all available data, including court judgements. I don't know what I've been saying or not, but what's clear is that you haven't answered is because you're so hard to answer why Nafarro and here abstration, why is it useful to the victims of Navarre? That's the most obvious question you've left without an answer, and that's the most obvious example of pretending to be you. And since he has been missing time in the two speeches – the clock has been red-handed – I will give him part of my turn, reproducing the words of Euskal's spokesman Herria Bildu in the Parliament of Navarre, around the law that was passed 20 days ago: "Complicated, with many pitfalls, with many limitations, but we did have the task of trying to overcome the obstacles that the Constitutional Court had raised from a shared perspective, in which the object of this law, or even the former, is not in any case to impute specific crimes to anyone in particular, but to establish a causal link between facts that have resulted in a violation of human rights, which at the same time have caused that person to have the status of victim and the right to recognition and reparation." It's hard to breathe! "It is what the previous law sought and it is what this law seeks, and also from the perspective that at all times we are talking about an administrative process, which has nothing to do with criminal jurisdiction or with what the Justice establishes or not. We are talking about an administrative procedure, and in case it is not clear in the previous law, in this one, and with all the reservations and with all the cautions that we have adopted, I think that nobody escapes that it looks good in evidence of what we are talking about. "EH Bildu will also vote in favour of this law with his reservations, as we do, because, of course, this law does not satisfy us, nor does it satisfy the victims, in theory, who could benefit from this law." "It said in previous interventions that it is sour, because it has the object and the task that we undertake in the elaboration of this law, that it is necessary and it is necessary not to close doors." Does that ring a bell? "It is necessary that at the slightest chance we can see to move forward, even without opening the doors in pairs, the door is surrounded and everything that implies moving forward is positive." Does that ring a bell? It looks quite like my speech today and when the vote was taken into consideration. Today, what we have seen here is a cheap, quite cheap strategy, quite set to monopolize the image and star in a session in which you had profiled, you had profiled, because it was much more comfortable for you to do it ourselves. And they'll have to explain why they're profiled here, and they haven't profiled in Nafarroa. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Before...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u48	... In accordance with Rule 81 and 85 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, I request the President's permission to make a request and to make a demonstration. Rule 85 states that, at any time during the debate, a Member who wishes to speak may do so, pursuant to Rule 81. And I would like to make an explicit, very specific request, which concerns Articles 83, 84 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure. Basically, I want to say that we have not found in the entire Rules of Procedure any article that would allow us to censor the words of a Member and that we have found in the Rules of Procedure articles that point out that when the guests interrupt the order of the sitting, they alter it, insult it... Parliamentarians, that has to be taken into account in the minutes with a view to taking legal action. Those people...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u49	Thank you, madam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u50	We expressly request...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u51	Thank you, madam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u52	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u53	Thank you, madam. We'll go to the vote. First, we'll vote for the Euzian patriots and the Sociialists of the Basque Socialists as the special vote of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u54	So it's okay with a single vote. The corrections reserved by the popular Basque Groups are agreed upon by the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u55	So the articles didn't take corrections. They vote together with the subsidies reserved by the Podemos, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u56	So they didn't accept it. They go together to vote together the reserved corrections of the EH teams, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 46; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u57	So they weren't approved. The articles of criticism that have been corrected together are put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the east, 37; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u58	So they've been accepted. The extra regulations are placed on the vote, on the one hand. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 9; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u59	The additional regulation has therefore been accepted. And next we vote for the final regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] Yes, the last regulation. We voted distributed. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the east, 37; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u60	So the last regulation has been accepted. The reconnaissances of the EH teams are placed together on the vote, he said. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 46; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u61	So it's not accepted. The explanation goes to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the east, 37; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u62	So the explanation was accepted. And finally, we vote for the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the east, 37; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u63	So the name of the law is accepted. And, simply, it has been approved that in the Erinic Euskal Autonomy, during the political motivation between 1978 and 1999, the victims of victims and the law of changing the 12/16th of the 15th of July on the investigation. Second point on the subject list: "EH Collect the legal proposition made by the parliamentary team to regulate the social clauses in public contracts. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and we'll just start arguing. On the side shift, who else is going to participate? Side shift? No? Nobody? Then 30 minutes for you. Your word is yours, Mrs. Ugarte, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u64	Yes, good morning, all of you, to say something. Norbaitek esan due to the fact that demons have been thrown into this Parliament. I believe that uncontrolled elements have been collided, that they have acted with total impunity, and that if they do so here today in this Parliament, what they will not do or what they will not have done in the dungeons and other dark and sad places. That is also the history of this country, éta nik eskatuko nuke, nire herrian esaten den bezala, pare hemendik...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u65	Ugarte, please, the atmosphere is pretty hot. Please focus on your subject, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u66	...a pair of them over here. At the same time, as Jone the High Court has asked for, we believe, according to the rules, that the President does not have the censures of this kind...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u67	Please, Mrs. Ugarte... Lady Ugarte, please, I've already told you to enter your subject. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u68	Teenagers. I've said...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u69	Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u70	Yeah. I've said the things I had to say and I'll go in with my subject. This subject may not be so dangerous; but, unfortunately, as we know, the legal proposition we bring here will not be overlooked. We introduced the legal proposal in January, that legal proposal is to introduce the social clause into public contract, and we received in February the satisfaction of fun, the sad impression signed by Mr. Erquare, because it "dissolizes" on both pages, under the pretext of the lack of legal security, to prevent the transmissitation of this law. Well, it surprises us; for the question to-day is merely a consideracion of thetoma, i.e. this law may be improved, this law may be made deeper, changes may be proposed, and must be made its way in a normal tram parlamentary, but it is plain that some people do not want to discuss it. The hypothesis may be different; some, that you would prefer to make a mandate or management of misery, rather than to have worthy conditions of labour; which may be one of the hypotheses. And one of the other hypotheses may be that the enterprises which the Basque Country presents are not likely to be given to us by the proposal of dislocation, which has happened to us as well as to the office of corruption. And, well, we're looking at some kind of dynamic, either to encourage the Basque People or not to traject them, or to prevent them from calling them aldudias directly, there's a kind of sabotage to the legislature's initiative at the Basque Country. What is the purpose of this law? Because we don't want a two-rate administration, we don't want to be two administrations. We don't want to be composed of official officials whose conditions are respected and where, apart from local conflicts, people are working under decent conditions, and in parallel, to have a privatized administration, and to have the conditions of a privatized administration, such as to be superfluous, to be precris, and to be neglected by the Government, the Basque, the Eusk. Public administration or public sector is our main employee at EAE, and we'd be talking about 20 percent of the PIB. This law causes five thousand persons to be said easily, but the life and quality of a man of 55,000 is uncertain whether he accepts or does not accept the treatment of this law. The Urkullu talks a lot about the quality of work, that we need a job of quality, but afterwards, when the initiative is planned, it's a pleasure to turn them off. When we talk about high employment, we must consider that when we're talking about the public sector, it's what we're talking about. the management of all the money. We're not talking about what kind of conditions private companies will impose on their employees, but we're talking about what kind of conditions the public sector will make all private companies, because those private companies that deal for the administration pay their wages with money, not with their money. It is true that the law of the public contract in Spain has always been a very economist; that is, the cheapest price was always the choice of the cheapest price, and was, as it were, a pretext for giving all the contraction system an objectiveity. What this has produced has been all the cases we are historically acquainted with; Through ETS all the dead who are around a high speed train, the state of slavery, the people sleeping in conveniencies, bringing foreign workers to work at huge hours without any documentation, raising uncontrollable amounts of money. It seems to us that we must end with this, and, besides, there is a coincidence that comes from Europe, which speaks of it. That is to say, in public contract, even the quality of employment ought to be given importance, and we cannot only rely on the price. This is said by the just men of Europe, who were proposed in 2014, and the law of public Spain, or the law of the public sector, in consequence of the changes made in 2017. That's the tentitude, that's the future. I mean, we need supportive contracts, we need an efficient public administration, but we need a high-quality public administration, because we all know that the quality of jobs acts directly in the quality of services. A phone operator who wins 600 euros on a public service cannot have the right conditions because his services have not been properly given. And he is bound directly, and what we ask for, we cannot despise others. It is perhaps the most probable measure we have here proposed in this sense that at least 1,200 euros will be paid by all the people who work for the public sector. We believe today, at the EAE level of the Basque Country, wages 1,200 euros are paid to maintain minimum dignity. This isn't just us, the Social Card says it's a matter of unions and a lot of associations. We are all conscious to-day, to live here, and to-day, what resources are necessary, how much money is needed, and where is the employment of dignity. We put the field of dignity at 1,200 euros, and it seems to us that this is inevitable. This law embraces the entire public sector of the EAE, just as this law, which now stands in force, embraces it. It doesn't only affect the autonomical sector, the public firms and the public sector, but it also affects people who believe that this law should be integrated even in what we thought the councils would call "Mámito subjetivo de alicción." Today, 56% of the EAE staff are still working without a work warrant, of which 75 percent of them are women. We think we should end this situation. We must end by wide agreements, end with a political occupation, speaking deeply with private sector, and making precise proposals. But we believe, today, that it is applicable to the contracts made by the Administration itself, that at least this last treaty should be established and maintained in this contract with the Administration, and that at least this minimum wage should be of 1,200 euros, as I have mentioned. We have also listened to sub-contradictions, because the companies which are linked directly to the administration are often more inclined to perform the conditions of work, but in this chain of sub-contradiction there is often a complete chaos and total disdominance. Many or more often, we can say. The administration is not aware of the conditions of work under these sub-contradictions, and as it has no direct contract, it does not consume any responsibility. Not with just contrancies, and still less with subcontradictions. We have therefore limited the chain of opposition to the third level, and what we demand is, that this law is applicable to the companies which govern the Administration. This law, moreover, does what the law at present does not do, and it is regulated by the transgression of the laws, and established by those offences, and established for them sanctifications. What's that supposed to mean? That the administration must be the diligence, the administration, and the administration must be brave at the time of punishment. But he can do it, and we think it's perfectly legal. The clauses we have proposed have been the clauses of the environment, the clauses of equality, the clauses of language. The Klausules are applied in several other laws, in other places, in different districts, in states, in individuals of the autonomy community. In that sense, we haven't invented anything new. We believe that we are bringing in a doctrine connected with each other, and we believe it to be perfectly applicable. I would like to make two important points: One, that we are not acting in some kind of violation of the law of contracting the public sector; it is perfectly consistent with the law proposition of law which we plan now in Spain. So that's no excuse to be applied. And it's completely supplemental, too, with the state of workers and all the laconic legislations. We are very conscious that we have neither of them any legal right, and therefore we are very conscious that we cannot apply it. The law is quite simple. It has four titles, 20 articles, a transient regulation, two additional regulations, and two end regulations. The first chapter belongs to the scope of the app. As we have mentioned, the subjective area is the most important-that is to say, it affects the whole EAE, and so we are talking about a volume of 55,000 people. In the second chapter, clauses appear, in detail, which are these clauses. You must have read them, so I won't enter them. And this is what is indispensable to us; that is to say, that all the workers need the last covenant, the last covenant that was made, and that in 2013, by the reforms made by Rahay, they require that all those Covenants should be applied again, and that, together with them, a minimum, of the wages of 1,200. Third, we place the control mechanisms, and it seems to us that this is very important. A balance of checking and evaluation is established; this measure of check and evaluation will not only observe how the plagus should be made at the time of the contract, but also look to see if the contract is still performing it. Yeah? What we're planning is the contractive clauses, that is to say, the terms of what conditions should be established in those compacts which the Administration makes with corporations. And the last chapter, as I have said, of the most jurist conclusion. And legal conclusions may be different sanctifications, but it would be the gravest Sanculation or punishment for the price of the contract to 10 percent. This supposes that punishments in the contracts of the great volume of contracts will be extremely great, especially in the contract of the work; There are many works of over 40 million euros, which would be possible, for instance, to arrive at four million. And that's what really hurts people. This compels the workers to take seriously, and not those simple Sanculations which at the present day the inspection of the works, because we all know that these little sanctifications are very easy to pay, and that it is much better to be sparing in the labors of the workers and to pay for them. I want to talk about the legal evolution, perhaps because of the past I have, that is the view I always have, and I would like to mention what legal reality we now have in this area. First, there are the directives I have spoken of, the directives of 2014, the 23 and 24 directives. And these are the words "de crecimito sotenical ecordo de la responsabilidad." And they speak of it thus: They say that the administration, when it's time to hire, must be careful, and that growth must be supportable and integrated, that garbage contracts can't be made and that the quality must be sought for. In the same way there is a law, a law of the Contracts of the Public Sector, of the State, of the 9/2017 Law, which finally imposes upon it a certain floor, and seems to be a change compared with the Legislations of the present time. And he says that social clauses must be grafted into an abstract style, he does not enter details, but a property is established, and what he does is enabled by the Administration in a much more diligent manner, much more supportable, by making these contracts. There is a law here established, 3/2016, and in its time the signature of 110,000 persons was introduced here, which was fully and totally defaxed, namely, "un brindis alSo," because we now have this law, that law of seven simple articles, and has not been forced by practice, because there has never been any sanctification, because the laws have not had them, and has been, in some measure, something to remain political in their time, but has no practical consequence. And those laws which have no practical consequences, are not laws which are not executables, are sterile laws. We may, therefore, say that we have a law which is sterile, but which is in force. And he calls me an atheist, because he speaks of legal security, which, when this LHE was brought here, Mr. Erreka re-signs the opposition in the name of a judgmentless security, and the conclusion is, that three years later there has been no appeal or resource against this law. The law is therefore established, and consequently the laws of the grafting social clauses are legitimate and legally certain. There is another law, which has lately been admitted, which was adopted in Navarre the year before, and we know in Navarre that they have a exclusive competition, that they have a exclusive right, in the sphere of public contract, but are not confined only to the general contractation. They speak properly of clauses; these clauses have been introduced, that law has been established, and no one has redeemed it. And besides, there's a 100-page report from COJU, the COJUE of Navarre, which, in spite of some questions, says that this law is generally perfectly legal. Okay. And finally, I would like to mention, in a more simple way, that such contributions have been made even in the aldunities, and that of the 4/2013 Aldundia of the Gipuian Fordunia, was accepted in the 4/2013 Foru, and that was a rule for public works; the first and the pioner was to put social clauses into the contract of public administration, where we have a sentence in favour of the Supreme Court, which deprives everything and totally of its reason. And that's just the law that says... Yes, that's right, and then I'll read it to you, because the sentence is very clear, 1301/2016, June 2nd. Eta esaten du sententzia Honek: "Let this type of legislation not create law, but apply it. And that we are talking about predisposed clauses." Clauses laid down in the contract, of nothing else, and that, therefore, it is totally legal and totally lawful for the public administration to draw up laws in this regard. We have, therefore, also a generous and important jurisprudence to give this law a legal method. And since the argument which has been given is not a jurist, and I imagine that in the explanation of the vote the legal excuses will be used, I should like to remove them. If there is no legal excuse, can the government's political will be at stake? What could be behind this? Yeah, well, it's been a long time. 2018ko otsailean, Azpiazu jaunak, IVAPeko ikastaro batean, konferentzia inauguralean, esaten duena da hau: "That contracting is not to be valued as an end, but as an instrument to develop other public policies in areas such as environment, social, R & D, SMEs, etc." Eta, speaks of "including in a cross-cutting way social and environmental criteria". Eta, in conclusion, says "that the current government's programme sets out initiatives for the incorporation into public procurement processes of specific clauses, in accordance with the provisions of Basque legislation for the inclusion of social clauses and environmental criteria". "Eso es lo que dæ el señor Subsua." Por tant, se supone que hay una voluntad importantísima. Pero es que a más a más, a mayor abundamiento, the gift says in memory of the budgets of 2019, and that he's working, and that he's in all contracts and scholarships, and that they're preparing a script and have to work on a script. So also the will of the offering is to introduce the clauses of equality. And finally, Mr. Urkullu always speaks to us that he has a purpose to promote employment of quality, etc. And then it seems strange to us that, if Mr. Urkullu is saying so, the production of high employment, when he is the principal emlegator, he does not encourage the office of quality, and the manner in which he does the ostrich. If there is no political reason and there is no legal problem, let us suppose that the public administration is in a very strong crisis, and cannot raise the prices of contracts, because it has enormous problems, and although it has political will, it is not economically compatible with the social clauses. Baina, jakina, Jaurlaritzak emandako datuen arabra "the tax collection in 2018 was almost 15 billion euros, with an increase of 15 % in the last two years". Eta "highlights increases in corporate tax ‘Adierazgarria da', in the IRPF and in VAT'. On the Labour Relations Council, in 2018 there was an end to wage stagnation and an increase of 2%. On the Basque economy, Esaten has grown by 2.8% in 2018, although there is a decrease compared to the forecast. But there's been an increase, and sets the discount rate at 10,2%, 2018. Is that the diagnosis that RedMork makes of EAE's condition? Is that the X-ray that does it? He tells us that EAE is in a state of prosperity, that we are in an oasis, that it is very well, and that money is getting out of the way. And then, if there is no economic reason, how is it possible that there are workers in Ubike? How is it possible that women should strike in the Gipuean provinces, at the age centres? How is it possible that the affair of emergency should be brought here, in order to give a solution to it? And how is it possible to keep so many garbage fires open in that sense by RedMork and the other institutions of the EAJ? Moreover, on the 8th of March 2019, in 2019... If you want me to answer you later, on, on the 8th of March 2019, the question is that a va haber un v % de voto las pollicas de genero, exigindo un 50 de mujeres en puestos de responsabilidad. And that's what it's all about when you're back in March 8, that's what it's working on. So I think he's falling into a constant contradiction. There's also for PSE because we just found out. They're back again in general elections, but we're just now aware that there will be no plan Reincorpórate, and that they're entre las 60 medicas, las contratas públicas res reservarán un 10 % de squares parados de lagación. How can this be done if it's not legal? That the Socialist Diago Party would consider whether this is legal, and if this is legal in Spain, EAE is legal too. It seems very strange to me that the Social Party kept this attitude in Spain, and that PSE decided to have a "actor secundarian" of PNV without a proper voice. I was very glad when we accepted the forum in 2013, because PSE had given a vote in favour of him, to insert social clauses into the public works of Gipuz, which PSE had given the voice of the Gipuzian, and now he has got hold of what EAJ had said, a legal excuse, that he will not protect a legal pretext which we have rejected. So it's a shame that PSE doesn't have his own voices because I think we'd all win a lot in that sense. Well, not to mention the popular Party, is it? After all he said yesterday, it was very difficult to protect our enterprise today, and we doubt that it seems to us quite contradictory to the pretty ones they apply. To see it a little and to end it, I mean, we all think, we, but all the world, deserves a worthy quality of life in this country. That everyone deserves it, that he has a right and that he deserves it. And that's not always in the hands of public administration; it's not always in the hands of politicians, it's not always in the hands of mad or local governments, but sometimes it does. And I believe that we ought to do all that is in our power to ensure certain worthy conditions of life, and this is in our power, which is in our power, that we may do, and if it is not, I do not yet know what reasons are. I don't understand what the reasons are, because they're not legal, they're not economics, they're not even political theories. Or do we use only empty words, and then turn back when we have to make real politics, do we turn back? You don't think it's worth everyone at least a salary of 1,200 euros for eight hours' work, to express his commitment. For rising from his house every day and going to work, then returning to his house and having a decent house for giving food to his family? You think we can't guarantee that in these cases? Is it possible to have a center like Tabala, first class, with third-class sodats? The future project is to build it with 20 years' sodats and 20 years ago under the conditions of work? Do you think that we can look on the other side when people are dying when they do public works when they are working under conditions of slavery? Isn't that our problem? Aren't we supposed to punish those companies for what they're doing with our money when they're doing it with everybody's money? Don't we deserve that? Isn't that worth people? Well, give me one reason why you vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. We'll go in reverse shift. Nork hartuko on the part of aurkako txandan? Inork ez? Explanation of vote? All right, let's ring the bell. Now that the discussion is over, we'll focus on the vote or ignore the legal proposition. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u72	So he doesn't consider it. Next, we'll go to the vote. First of all, Mrs. Llanos, the Basque Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u73	Thank you, Madam President; good morning, everyone. Well, I will try not to debate precisely, because we are in explanation of vote, and what it is about is to explain why we voted negatively on this consideration. To vote against this consideration does not mean that we do not agree with the objectives of trying to guarantee a dignified life, of recognizing the role that the Administration, through contracts, can play, but we believe that, through this proposal of law, we did not consider it to be to be achieved for the reasons I am going to explain; which does not mean that we are not in favour precisely of social clauses being included in public contracts. Why have we voted against this proposal, which is a transposition of Gipuzkoa's foral rule, and which is precisely because it is that transposition, in some cases, because it is difficult to carry or apply it? First of all, we have voted that not because we believe that it is technically obsolete, outdated and overtaken by the new and recent legislation on public procurement, which has been applied throughout the state since March 9, 2018. The adoption of Directive 2014/24 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement has already forced social, environmental, innovation and development considerations to be introduced into public procurement in order to calculate the best value for money ratio in each procurement file. It also added new valuation criteria, including social clauses and the calculation of the cost of living cycle, which corrected the previous preferred criterion of the lowest price or economically more advantageous offer. This directive has been incorporated – as we said – into the Spanish legal system, through the Law 9/2017 of 8 November on Public Sector Contracts. This rule replaces that of 2011, and incorporates social and environmental clauses in a mandatory and cross-cutting manner in all public procurement processes, in particular in Article 1.3. This law has come to order, clarify and, in some way, overcome – which is why it said it was overtaken – the variety of types of social, labour, environmental, ethical, gender and linguistic clauses that have been included in its various regulations and contracting instruments. Pending the regulatory development of this law, the obligation to introduce such clauses in the contract documents, which imposes this obligation on the Administration, leaves complete freedom to decide on their inclusion in each particular contract, as a criterion of award, as a criterion of preference in cases of tie or as a special condition of execution. This means that clauses can be introduced at the various stages of the procurement process, provided that the principles of transparency, freedom of treatment and non-discrimination of tenderers are respected, as they could not otherwise be. Therefore, the possibilities for inclusion in public procurement of such clauses are endless. It will be the responsibility of each respective administration, local entity or entity integrated in the Basque public sector, through the corresponding government programme, political declaration and recruitment instructions, to determine what objectives are to be achieved in each procurement process, and by virtue of this, what clauses are included. In this way, socially responsible contracting clauses may be provided for or introduced in the following sections of a package: preliminary consultations on the market, in the determination of the subject-matter of the contract, in the selection of the contracting companies by means of a social reserve of the contract, expressly recognising access to procurement for small and medium-sized enterprises, social economy enterprises, special employment centres or employment centres or protected employment programmes. Social clauses may also be included as award criteria or in compliance in the event of a tie, or under special conditions of performance of the contract. We believe, as the Government also notes in the statement of its view, that, through this proposal, matters which do not fall within its competence and which fall within the scope of the law or labour law, pay or which are specific to the respective collective agreements, are intended to be regulated, through contractual rules, and that we therefore do not consider it appropriate to include them. On the other hand, the regulation of the law itself establishes... The so-called technical commission for the verification and evaluation of compliance with the social clauses contains a regulation with a position and functioning that is only intended for the general administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, on the initiative, or the foral parliament or municipalities of certain sizes, but in small municipalities as in Álava that there are many, because they do not have those two officials that are required between the members of the recruitment board, in addition to the lawyer, with which would not be applicable the proposal that has been brought here today. It is inspired, as we have said before, by the foral rule of Gipuzkoa, and therefore sometimes refers only to the works contracts of the foral deputy. Therefore, we do not consider it to be applicable here. And lastly,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u74	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u75	I'm finishing up, yeah. ... By empowering the Government to adopt an operating regulation of the recruitment board, it confuses what is a recruitment board, which is set up for the processing of various procedures, with which it would be a kind of advisory board. I'm done. We are faced with an outdated, obsolete, technically highly improveable bill that does not bring anything, except legal uncertainty and confusion, and that its application would be sterile in order to achieve the desired goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u76	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u77	Good morning, Madam President. I intervene with the troubled spirit and the hurt soul in this turn, because I also don't know where the limit of dignity is. And, as I do not want to be drawn to my attention by the President, I will explain exclusively why we have voted against this bill tabled by the parliamentary group of EH Bildu. Because, although, in your justification of the initiative, you advocate the opportunity that means the introduction of social clauses in the development of public procurement, for better compliance with social interests and the protection of the well-being of people or the environment, when you develop them, you repeat in questions knowing that these are not legal. The Socialist Group has already expressed, from this rostrum, on a number of occasions, the opportunity offered by the incorporation of social clauses into public procurement, while the aim of these clauses is to guarantee the quality of employment, through the obligatory respect for workers' labour rights, which, as we all know, or should already, result in the requirement of compliance with the collective agreement which applies to them, not the one we want, to avoid precariousness by demanding compliance with these conditions throughout the subcontracting chain, because we believe that this is also the only way to guarantee the quality of the services to be provided. This Parliament, with the votes of the Socialists, adopted Law 3/2016 for the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, so that as early as 2016, in the recruitment documents, detailed social requirements can be included – and are included – in the execution of contracts, such as the recruitment of long-term unemployed persons, the training of young and unemployed persons, measures to promote gender equality, the integration of immigrants or the recruitment of persons with disabilities, among others. It should be added that, as the Government has indicated in the issuance of an unfavourable criterion, the entry into force, less than a year ago, of Law 9/2017 on Public Sector Contracts, has meant the incorporation, as a basic part of public contracts, of its provisions. Thus, in this new law, this criterion, which is already exceeded, of the most advantageous economic offer, is replaced by that of the best value for money, and the evaluation of the offers must be carried out not only on the basis of economic but also qualitative criteria. Among these qualitative criteria, contracting authorities may choose to include social, labour or environmental aspects linked to the subject-matter of the contract, and must introduce any of them. For this reason, State law has already strengthened the importance of social and environmental clauses in public procurement by making it possible to use them not only as special conditions of implementation, which has been achieved so far, but also as award criteria. That is so, always with the limit that they are not discriminatory and compatible with Union law. It is therefore, and it is true, that nothing innovative is being done with this proposal for a law which is proposed to us today, since we can already act in this way. And that is precisely what EH Bildu does not respect in his proposal for a law, and what warns us of the negative criterion issued by the government. It is a clear warning of illegality, and it is not an excuse; it is a clear warning of illegality. The proposal for a law is incompatible with the European guidelines, which the law I have just mentioned transposes into Spanish law, as well as with the case law already handed down by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and does not respect – and you know it – the substantive and sectoral order in labour matters. Since EH Bildu, they have been able to replace the social partners in whom the collective bargaining capacity resides and, therefore, to approve the sectoral collective agreement applying to the sector in which public procurement takes place, claiming, as always, from the political dictates, to replace them on the basis of laws, decrees or proposals of law. And it does so with recidivism, but also with affluence, because it intends here again to fix a specific collective agreement, knowing that precisely this specific fixing of a specific agreement was declared illegal by the above-mentioned Supreme Court judgment, when it was intended in Gipuzkoa. The attempt at ignorance at that time could be understood, but the repetition in a subsequent proposal in this Parliament is not understood. But it's curious, because we said it last week and we're going to repeat this: in Nafarroa a law of public contracts with social clauses has just been passed. Geroa Bai, EH Bildu, Podemos, Partido Socialista y Izquierda-Ezkerra, applauded at the time by Commissions, ELA and LAB, stressed that, through the law that had just been passed, a paradigm shift had been introduced that, to the detriment of the most advantageous economic offer, introduced a new procurement model based on the best value for money ratio, including or incorporating social and environmental clauses with a cross-cutting and preceptive character. I have reviewed this law, which has not a year of life, and it does not resemble what EH Bildu proposes here: no reference agreement, no minimum wages, no verification commissions. Are shipworkers not entitled, as the Basque workers are supposed to have? On the contrary, in its introduction, it was emphasized that this was a law, which, as a novelty in the field of work, was aimed at ensuring that the sectoral implementing agreement was respected, establishing that the minimum wages set out in this sectoral agreement in the nearest field in force or in ultra-activity would be the minimums to be addressed. They were very free to write other things. And this, ladies and gentlemen, EH Bildu, it's not a forget, and you know it. And it's just more than what we're used to doing in this Parliament, preaching and not giving wheat, playing with the courts, playing with headlines, playing with people's expectations, generating false hopes and frustrate those who get to fall for it. That is why there has been a negative and unanimous vote by the Socialist Party on its proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mr. Hernandez, together Podemos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u79	Good. In the case of the parliamentarians of the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, we voted in favour. Let us explain the reasons for our vote: firstly, and although the existing legislation on social clauses in relation to public procurement is relatively recent, we have argued, since our arrival in this Parliament, in this legislature, that we believe that there is room for manoeuvre to improve it in one direction, that of obtaining the greatest possible guarantee that the working conditions of women workers working in private companies for the public administration will do so in decent conditions, in the best possible conditions, and also to ensure respect for the environment by those companies and to ensure real equality between women and men. The reality, in our view, is that this, today, is not guaranteed, as we have seen in a multitude of labour disputes and union complaints about it, by companies that work for the public administration in our community, companies whose workers not only do not do so in the best possible conditions, but, on many occasions, do so in bad and even precarious conditions. This is something we have seen on many occasions in the Labour Committee itself. That is why, from our group, we were not prepared to close the door to a bill, in which later we could work to improve the legal tools with which to improve the working conditions of hundreds of thousands of workers, companies that contract with the Administration, companies that many and many workers go through. Secondly, we have not been able to find sufficient arguments in the Government's approach to change this previous position. We do not share the Government's view of incompatibility with European directives, state law and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which does not even explain what specific legal or case-law requirements are not met. And we do not share the Government's view that it is impossible to incorporate labour and wage clauses into contractual regulations. The Government has issued a political, non-technical, criterion against improving the working and wage conditions of women workers under the areas of their responsibility, conditions which, as I said today, are, on many occasions, unacceptable. We would add, however, that the Government's approach would not have been decisive, in any case, when our group determined the position, as long as we believe that the discussion of the legal fit of the legislative proposals can be resolved during the process of processing the law, with the necessary appearances, reports and debates. We believe that, if the groups have the political will to adopt social improvements through a public procurement law, the consideration of the proposal would have enabled us to work towards this, with legal reports that would allow us to adjust the contents as much as possible of the objective and political will as legally possible. And, thirdly and lastly, we have voted in favour of the consideration, because the content of this proposal for a law is similar to the approaches we make from Elkarrekin. We can also in another proposal for a law that we registered some time ago in this Parliament and, therefore, we intend to be consistent in defending our political positions, come from where the initiatives come from. Finally, we would like to state that, also in our reflection on the meaning of the vote, we have taken into account that some of the most controversial issues in the proposal that has been explained today are issues on which we have worked and which we believe have possible formulas to be put into practice. Some of them, for example, are contained in the Navarra Public Procurement Act, which is in force. Reference has been made to this earlier. These are the reasons why, from our group, we voted in favour of the start of the procedure and which, unfortunately, has been rejected by a conservative majority in Parliament. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good noon to all. First of all, I mean that we've decided to use the time to explain our vote, with the boundaries of my engagement, because what's proposed today is not new in this parliament, and that we don't come to make a nice speech, but to explain our attitude with realism and care. The same has been discussed at least four times directly recently and so many more indirectly. The last one, last Thursday, 28 March, in relation to the 1,200 euros; initiative that fell. Also five months ago, on 25 October, and in the processing of Law 3/2016 of 7 April, on the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, which was the result of a popular legislative initiative, a law that was passed by this Parliament with legal certainty and in the limited margin that the current legal order leaves to Euskadi in matters of public procurement and labour law. Por lo tant, me remito iogramente a la polición supportide por mí misma y por mi grapo en dichos debates. En cualquier caso, which I mean is that our legislative party voted against the consideration of this legal proposition; for he who proposes, on the one hand, has a serious regard for illegal violence, and on the other hand, in part, where legal affairs are not concerned, have been overcome by the treaty received by the Eucommy himself or received by other rules. So nothing new can be possible or legal. The Basque Government has expressed its unfavorable view, as we believe it cannot be otherwise, based on reasons that this parliamentary group shares, and mainly focused on two groups: on the one hand, relating to legal certainty – which does not excuse, but rather legality, realism – and, on the other hand, understanding that it is content that is already overcome by other agreements of the Government itself, in matters such as wage gap, equality, linguistic rights, the environment, a lot of subjects, which are already covered, on the other hand, by other rules already in force. Therefore, in these two blocs, we understand that this rule, in the part that has no doubt of legality, is already overtaken by other agreements. As far as legal certainty is concerned, we see, appreciate... serious aspects of illegality; on the one hand, as we have said so many times, a minimum wage cannot be established through public procurement; nor can it be established or imposed what the collective agreement should be through it, because it is labour legislation that must establish it, labour legislation that, today, continues to belong to the State. On the other hand, as far as subcontracting is concerned, we also see serious doubts about legality in some aspects of the initiative that has been presented today and, finally, as far as there is no such doubt, we believe that it is also overtaken by the existing and not precisely new rules. On the other hand, it continues to collect provisions that have already been declared, even null and void, by ordinary jurisdiction, and in particular, judgements of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the Supreme Court. We believe that wages should be in line with the socio-economic reality of each territory, but it is not the responsibility of this Parliament to set a minimum wage, because, on the one hand, it cannot interfere with collective bargaining – it is the trade unions and employers who are responsible for fixing the wage increases that are appropriate to them – and, on the other hand, it is not competent, because it is a matter of labour legislation that this Parliament does not have, and Euskadi does not have that competence. Another issue would be to move forward on issues that alter the current division of jurisdiction between the State and Euskadi, such as, for example, setting a minimum wage; but, of course, this issue totally exceeds this proposed law and the competence of this Parliament. It has also been overtaken – as has been said and I will not repeat it – and is also perfectly reflected in the Government's approach under Law 9/2017 on State Public Sector Contracts, which is of a basic nature, and, on the other hand, by important agreements adopted by this Government in the Governing Council. And I must also say that, when I read the initiative, the truth is that it reminded me of something, until I identified that it was the same as the Gipuzkoa foral rule of 2013, of including social clauses in works contracts for the public sector of that territory. So identical that it continues to collect the provisions that have already been annulled by the High Court of Justice in judgement 617/2014, and that it was ratified by the Supreme Court in judgment 1301/2016. Besides, sentences... And in the part that doesn't cancel it says 'what good!', that it can continue to collect that, but, of course, that will be what will be determined by labour legislation. Therefore, in the part that is not annulled, it would be interpretative, and should continue to be derived from what labour law says. This initiative continues to contain references to the repealed legislation and, on the other hand, they are completely out of date. That is why we voted against it. It is not about political will, but about an exercise of realism and responsibility, and that is what this Government is about; it is proactive and exemplary within the existing legal framework, with legal certainty, and it continues to make progress on the social agenda and to continue to improve the quality of employment, in particular, and the quality of Basque citizenship in general. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Barmio Barroja Group, who live or care in Venezuela, and suffer the punishment of the social and political crisis of this country on the eucalyptus eucalists of Euskalans. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, is your word...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u83	Yes, thank you very much, President, again. Good morning to all and to all, lehendakari, counselors. Well, this is a motion that we tabled as a result of questioning and in which we wanted to look for meeting points; we have achieved them, and I want to say that I do not have to be very extensive in my explanation. And soon, the debate we have had recently, the debate on the political situation, the humanitarian situation in Venezuela, with the adoption of that compromise amendment to the non-law proposal on that political and humanitarian situation in this country. And we have also recently been able to speak about the question to the lehendakari, in which there was a tune-up on continuing to work for the Basque population in Venezuela, for the Basque-Venezuelan population or for Venezuelans of Basque origin, for so many bonds that we have in common. And in that sense, from that point on, we have seen and continue to see how the news gets worse every day. In the news we see the situation getting worse in that country, progressively, the deterioration, the political deterioration, and around it, the deterioration of the living conditions of the population in Venezuela is something that, of course, is there. Every day this situation deteriorates, and every day the population of Venezuela lives worse, lives in worse conditions, and also every day calls for help from that country to the world, for their liberation and to get out, above all, of the precariousness and poverty and the poor living conditions that are being achieved in that country. We understand one issue as important. Some aid has already been arbitrated, but we must continue, of course, by deepening this articulation. And it is good that we do it here, that we do it in the Basque Parliament, because it is good that the Basque-Venezuelans, people of Basque origin in Venezuela, look at us, that we are concerned about their situation, and see that we are pending and that we can do things and that we want to do them. That is the fundamental element that led to one of the considerations of the compromise amendment and then to the inquiry, and now to this motion, with the agreement that we have signed. These days, too, in addition to the observation of the worsening situation in Venezuela, we are seeing that other institutions continue to worry. Recently, seven days ago, the European Parliament re-adopted another resolution; it is striking because in the same year the European Parliament has already adopted two resolutions, and, in those resolutions, important and clear issues were raised in its recitals regarding the situation, the consequence of a political crisis, and the country is going through an unprecedented multidimensional crisis affecting an increasing number of people. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees says that "since 2014, more than 3 million Venezuelans have fled the country, and that, although the exodus of the population of Venezuela has been caused mainly by a humanitarian crisis, the flight of many Venezuelans is also due to government repression, which has led to thousands of arbitrary arrests, prosecution of civilians, torture, abuse of persons deprived of their liberty...". And it also considers that "Venezuelans face a lack of supplies of medicines, health products, food, which greatly undermines their rights to health, to food, and is causing the increasing rates of maternal and infant mortality, a spectacular increase in contagious diseases, and levels of citizen insecurity and child malnutrition." He continues to consider that "the regime's refusal to recognize the humanitarian emergency situation has led to an escalation of tension in recent months, and that there are worrying reports of riots, acts of violence...". In this sense, to certify the deterioration of the situation, that is, even speaks that resolution of the blackout itself (the blackout, the blackouts), considering that the blackout that occurred throughout the country at the beginning of March (have followed...) has led to a further deterioration of the health services, the supply of drinking water... I mean, that leads to a number of consequences, too, that we have to make them our own, because the European Parliament has also made a number of demonstrations. It has expressed its deep concern about the worsening situation in Venezuela, and solidarity, logically. But, in a row, to put duties, and to have the European Union commits already, in this case, EUR 60 million for humanitarian and development aid over the past year, but that has to continue. That is why it calls on the European Union and its Member States, there we must feel called, to continue their efforts for some time. And in the context of these statements, of our own and of such important bodies as the European Parliament, we tabled a motion following the question we had at the previous plenary session and in which we spoke to the Lehendakari about this situation and we certainly certified the need to continue to make efforts from here. We tabled a motion calling for the implementation of the policies of cooperation, human rights, external action and Basque communities, and, following the pronouncements of this House, that, in relation to the people, the situation of Venezuela and Venezuelan Basque people, a comprehensive plan of action be drawn up, which collects the necessary measures to promote and promote economic aid and the possibility of returns. We were talking about that, we were talking about a document or an instrument, or a possibility, but we have reached an agreement, which I think is very satisfactory for further progress. I say again: it is a reflection and it is necessary for us to see from there that we are still in this House, in this Basque Parliament, talking about them and working for them and worrying about them, and it is important that we have reached an agreement such as we have reached, which I am going to say: We have signed a compromise amendment, and I therefore thank Mr Prieto and Mr Aguirre for their willingness and willingness, of course, to facilitate the agreement. "The Basque Parliament, after its last pronouncement in favour of humanitarian action with the people of Venezuela and, in particular, with the Basque-Venezuelan people, urges the Basque Government, in implementing its policies of cooperation, human rights, external action, communities, to continue to develop – indeed, that is logical – and to strengthen the necessary measures to promote and promote such humanitarian aid, from a global perspective, including return measures." It is clear that there are things that can be done. We framed... Someone will see that we care, even about the possibility of return, if necessary. And at the same time – and that is a good contribution – it is requested that, "as long as the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela continues, it forwards annually to this Parliament the balance sheet of requests for humanitarian aid received, as well as the response measures put in place by the Basque Government". Well, it's good information that we have to have that, which will also answer the possibility of how such aid is to be awarded to the Basque-Venezuelan population and to those who ask us, well, and to the Venezuelan population, in their case. And, in that sense, we have signed that compromise amendment. We are satisfied with the work in relation to... To put that grain of sand, because it is this House, or at least I reflect that we are concerned and that we are there and that we can do something from our Government and, in this case, from our Parliament, and logically, I thank again, the spokespersons of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, for their sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. On the side of the teams who have not issued any correction, the Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr Price, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u85	President, ladies and gentlemen. Today it is time to talk about humanitarian aid; it is time to talk about cooperation, solidarity, something we did a few weeks ago, that we did it in a more extensive way, that we did it with some political evaluations. But I believe that today, in order not to repeat the argument, it is better to focus on what reflects the will of this initiative, which is, as I say, about humanitarian aid, cooperation and solidarity. Venezuela continues to be news for all the calamities that are going on, for hunger, for the lack of medicines, for the lack of attention to citizens in the most basic needs, for blackouts, for insecurity, for crime... It is still news from exile, from the departure of many citizens from the country, who find no chance even of malliving there. And I dare say that we are faced with a State that can be regarded as a failed State, a State that has failed politically, economically, socially, with high doses of corruption and that is living in an impossible situation to protect and meet citizens in these basic needs. As has already been mentioned, between three and four million people have come out of there in recent years. In addition, about 87% of the population currently lives in poverty, and 61% of the population is in extreme poverty. People are dying every day, because there are not enough conditions to give chemotherapy to those suffering from cancer, or to attend to delicate, chronic illnesses and pathologies, due to lack of light supply or lack of medication supply. More than 22,000 doctors have left that country because they cannot do their job. We are therefore faced with figures that are absolutely alarming in all the fields that we can talk about. The crime rate in Venezuela is the highest in Latin America. Of the 335 municipalities in Venezuela, approximately 85% are on epidemic alert; infectious or viral diseases have multiplied. Well, the situation is of absolute urgency and, in addition, with an occupation of a Government that is preventing the humanitarian aid of the international community. In this sense, I believe that Euskadi can demonstrate, to the extent of his possibilities, that he is a country of solidarity, of solidarity with all the people who suffer from these kinds of situations, of devoting his own resources to making care policies in this way, in this humanitarian way, so that he can carry medicines, so that he can carry food, so that he can carry the assistance that is required; there are programmes in which he is working, not only with Venezuela, but with more countries, but, in particular, with Venezuela. Moreover, as has been reflected in the initiative and also in the compromise amendment that has finally been made, there is a citizenship of Basque origin, which has also been caring for and helping for many years, and to which very well comes any sign, any trait, solidarity and attention, of concern, for their situation. It is also proposed that this should be an integral care, not only taking care of origin, but also allowing for returns, and that we should be able to do everything in our power to ensure that these people find a better future, as long as the political situation in the country is being resolved and as long as this necessary political transition is generated, by which this Parliament has already taken a position, so that democracy in the country is recomposed, so that the representation of citizens is legitimated by the ballot box and is a representation that meets these basic needs of the citizens. We are talking about a country which, very recently, was a rich country, and which today is a country which is plunged into extreme poverty and, moreover, with a total inability to manage itself, with a total inability to meet the requirements, at the moment, of political and international influence, which has been isolated from the international community, which has done everything in its power, including the use of the army, to prevent such humanitarian aid from crossing borders. Well, and in this chaotic situation, obviously, we cannot stand idly by, we cannot look elsewhere, and that is precisely what Parliament is doing at the moment – it has done so recently too –; it is precisely what the Basque Government is doing, with its programmes, and this is an initiative, with a compromise amendment, which wants to raise the tone and reinforce that attention, that solidarity, that cooperation so necessary, that we, as citizens of the world, have on other occasions also received it, and that now they also need to receive it, as citizens of the world. Therefore, the initiative dealt with in these terms, I believe, should be respected, in one way or another, by this House as a whole, because humanitarian aid must not have borders, must not have vetoes and must not have any behaviour that ideologically tries to prevent it, as has been done on more than one occasion. This is the meaning of the initiative. It is also the meaning of our political position as a parliamentary group, and I hope that it is also the meaning of the whole of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u86	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u87	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. As has been shown by Barrio and Prinett, we have obtained a medium between three groups. I shall not here repeat what is said in this text, and in this essay I shall certainly bring few new notes, for two weeks ago Mr. Barrius made an interpelation to the President, and most of the answers were there. But I will try to answer at least a number of questions to find out what help the Euskalians of Venezuela, and especially those who came from Venezuela, and the refugees, and the eucalyptuses, and what they do in a general manner, in order to repair the serious state of Venezuela, as far as we can. These are the questions and the worries we have here. So, as I said, there will be very few surprises in my speech, but I will try to deep down and insist on some ideas, because of their importance. I believe, in fact, that you cannot add much more to what the Lehendakari answered two weeks ago in this very House, and I believe that it does demonstrate widely, at least, the Basque Government's effort, commitment, to help the Venezuelan population in general, especially our Basque community, especially in Valencia Carabobo, the state of Carabobo, and also in Caracas, but also to help those people who have decided to leave Venezuela and return to their homeland of origin, or simply that they are Venezuelans and need all kinds of help to live here in Basque. Therefore, I would distinguish between these two legs of Basque aid, of the Basque Government, towards the Basque community, that of Venezuela, but also the one that has come here, and towards the Venezuelan population in general. And what kind of a lawyer do we have? Well, look, 25 years ago, the Chamber itself was unanimously admitted to the 8/94 Act, the 27th of May, to the relations of the eucalycals and the households outside of the Basque Autonom meeting. And above all, the law insisted: "Objects. In the Euskal society and its institutions to promote their relations with groups and houses outside the Basque Autonomical Society, is the end of this law to help them and increase them." And on another point, too, you say: "In account of the chances given by the agency and the budget, to support and protect the Basques who live outside the Basque Autonomy Society." And I believe that this avant-garde 1994 law of relations with the Basque communities and centres of the outside world gives us the legal umbrella to grant aid, to the extent of our possibilities, both financial and legal, to the Basque communities of the outside world and to the people who have returned. But it also gives us a framework to be able to help Venezuelans who have come all the way here. In addition to what I had already mentioned, article 11 of the Act also provides for a number of benefits for members of Basque communities who have the Basque political status, that is to say, which corresponds to article 7.2 of the Gernika Statute, and gives them health-care and social assistance benefits, without having to certify a period of previous residence in Euskadi. It also provides for calls for the award of social housing in which no prior residence period will be required as a requirement for the application, provided that, logically, they comply with the rest of the conditions of the call. And, when it comes to caring for particularly unprotected persons, the call for the award of social housing may establish the status of return, as an additional merit for the purposes of barring. Finally, they will also be able to access support measures that could be taken to facilitate the return journey to Euskadi, in order to establish their residence here. Therefore, this legal umbrella of 25 years ago allows us to get to answer, to respond... to the needs of both the Basque community living there and that of here. And it is true, as the Lehendakari said, that much of the Basque community in Venezuela is the result of the exile of the Civil War and that the vast majority also possesses only Venezuelan nationality and, therefore, cannot accept what is provided for in Article 7.2 of the Statute of Gernika. Therefore, it was also not possible to weigh exactly what other autonomous communities, such as Galician or Asturian, have done, since the conditions are not the same. On the other hand, the Basque Government's aid to the Basque community in Venezuela has been as follows: first, aid of extreme necessity; this is already provided for by the law in one of its articles, but the first time it was launched was to respond to the delicate situation of the Basque-Argentine community in 2003, after the corralito. Well, in the case of last year's aid decree, it had a budget of 202,000 euros in 2018, and 109 families from five different countries were served; but in the case of Venezuela, 100% of the demands were met. And in the 2019 call, which is open until 25 April, special emphasis is placed on the situation in Venezuela, so that the community can benefit from this call and see the situation of need alleviated, to a certain extent, that they suffer. Las dos euscal houses On the other hand, there has been a systematic communication between the General Secretariat of Foreign Action, but also the Secretariat of Jonan Fernández, of Human Rights, with the collective of Tierra de Gracia, which regroups not only Venezuelan Basques, but also Venezuelans who live here in Euskadi and who have punctually informed about the situation and the needs of the Venezuelan or Basque-Venezuelan collectivity here in Euskadi. On the other hand, contacts have also been maintained with different international institutions. – for example, with the International Red Cross – but also with the Pan American Health Organization, also with religious communities, as well as with the Jesuits (Father Luis Ugalde, who has been a man who has dedicated his entire life to Venezuela). Well, those people have been able to inform us of what the needs of the people of Venezuela really were. And recently, because you also remembered, Venezuela did not allow the arrival, or did not allow the entry of international aid... recently, 15 days ago or less than 15 days ago, last week, the International Red Cross assured that it would enter Venezuela and, without accepting political interference, would provide humanitarian aid in an operation that intended to support 650,000 people, especially in the medical field. On the other hand, aid to Venezuelans of Basque or non-Vasco origin arriving in Euskadi. Well, since the Government, a total of 965 persons of Venezuelan nationality who have applied for international protection have been assisted, of whom 437 have been beneficiaries of assistance, including accommodation, basic maintenance, legal advice, psychological support, along with access to social health services, education, etc., offered by Basque institutions. On the other hand, the GIR has been granted to 267 living units. With regard to social emergency aid, it is estimated that 640 people of Venezuelan origin have benefited from such aid. And it is an estimate, because the data of nationality is not required when providing the service. On the other hand, there have been many meetings with Biltzen, the Basque Service for Integration and Intercultural Co-existence, and this has also helped the Venezuelan community here in Euskadi. And then, to finish this, these were the actions and efforts of you to ease the state of Venezuela and its teams, and we will continue to protect that work, and what we expect is to get through Venezuela's situation as quickly as possible, but unfortunately we think that this way will still be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u88	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Having passed over the teams that have no corrections, together Podemos, Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u89	Good morning. Thank you. I must confess, in fact, that Mr. Barri's work, the constancy for his ideas; but a few weeks ago, you brought the suggestion to this Chamber of State, which has been attempted in Venezuela by Guaidó and others, and now you bring this question of possible humanitarian help. And we cannot separate the two things, and therefore we shall refuse the half-way proposition, and we are not at all opposed to giving them humane aid; but as they are connected with these two independentities, we shall give our refusal for consistency. In this subject, the opinions of the parliamentary groups of this legislature are established, and I think it is said that I shall have all the arguments François. And I don't know very well what your object is in this enterprise, and I don't know anything but to present you at the present moment, to Venezuela for nearly four weeks. Furthermore, I am glad to be able to express the views that I am going to express at the moment, without receiving the pressure from the public; because, in defending the non-law proposal that you presented, we recognized – and we continue to acknowledge – that Venezuela is going through a serious political situation and a serious economic situation, and in that we agree. That the economy has not gone well is an obvious issue and we agree; but, well, the initiative you are bringing at the moment comes from the previous initiative; let us not set traps in a very good way that we all use at this point in the debate. Because this initiative comes from an initiative that sought to support a gentleman who picked up a microphone on a street, was self-proclaimed president and whom, 28 minutes later, Mr Trump recognized. Mr. who, by the way, was also supported by Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who gave Maduro an 8-day ultimatum to call elections, and I think that he did a little wrong with the calculation, because they have almost 100 and Maduro has not even called elections, although he has proposed legislative elections, and Guaidó also, because he has no legitimacy to call them. That is Spain's international policy at the moment. A time when, from 2013 to 2017, the economic sanctions that Venezuela has suffered, according to CELAG, amount to $245 billion. And I say the same again: these sanctions do not affect the Government of Venezuela, they affect the people of Venezuela. In other words, perhaps we must stop punishing countries, stop blocking countries, so that the people can live in freedom. And millions of dollars of Venezuelan funds blocked in international banks; you know it better than I do, Mr. Barrio. And why, if we want to help Venezuela, there is a European bank that has blocked a purchase of 1,650 million dollars of Venezuelan medicines, and why, if we want to help Venezuela, an Iberia plane refuses to send a shipment of medicines to Qatar. Why? The Government of Spain has not responded to that request for information for that order which it gave to Iberia. Why? Because we're playing something else. Because what is happening there is that, in the midst of the suffering of the people of Venezuela, there is a permanent coup d'état to overthrow a government. A Government, by the way, which has already proposed legislative elections, under the agreements it had previously had with the opposition and controlled at the international level. It is a country that suffers a permanent siege situation, and it will not be free what Guaidó says, that, if Maduro leaves, the next day the water works, the light works, everything works... I think it is irresponsible to support a gentleman who is allowed to play with the suffering of the people of Venezuela. I find it tremendously irresponsible, tremendously irresponsible! I'd say, from the numbers I've said, they'll affect the people. Blocks and such measures do not affect elites; the people suffer the most violent influences, but you play "al cuento de cuanto mejoor," but the lives of the people are in the middle of the town, they won't make any fun of it. Venezuelak laguntza behar du, bai, benetako laguntza behar du, laguntza materiala bai, baina breinta una erespectatzen duen laguntza, elkarrizketarako, akordiorako eta bakerako marko bat bullzatzen duena. And of course we need help, and perhaps this one that you are going to approve at this time will come – you will have to see it – but the really necessary and the really important one is an aid to peace, to dialogue, to the agreement between Venezuelans, so that the continued coup will cease, there will be legislative elections in 2019, in which all the opposition participates and wins whoever the Venezuelan people say. But there must be dialogue, there must be a framework for agreement, dialogue and peace. There's humanitarian aid. Mr Aguirre, you have forgotten to supplement the information you have given, because there are many countries... And they'll tell me Russia, China, Cuba. No, no... There is India, there is Malaysia; many Latin American countries are helping. But it is that apart from all that – I say for the answer – the International Red Cross has a plan and the International Red Cross operates in Venezuela with freedom, of all life. The UN, the Pan American Health Organization, Unicef, all these agencies are working there right now, for many years, long before the arrival of chavismo and now they also continue there. And the UN's own data and the Pan American Health Organization say that their programs have already helped – not that they're going to help, but that they've already helped – 700,000 people. And it will take a lot more, sure, and it will have to be in that context of respect for legality and work for peace and dialogue, because Cúcuta was a media show. I don't know who, one of you three, said a truck was burned by the Government of Venezuela, a humanitarian aid truck that was burned at the border. No Elkarrekin Podemos and no Iñigo Martínez Zatón, but CNN has dismantled that, that it was guarimberos who were playing with Molotov cocktails who burned that humanitarian aid truck. From this country, these people have been responsible for burning humanitarian aid. Let's not play games when humanitarian aid is entering Venezuela every day. That of friendly countries of that Government and that of the Red Cross, that of the UN, that of the Pan American Health Organization and that of Unicef; it is entering every day. The concert, by the way, that of Cúcuta, which collected almost 30 times less than the cost of its organization. That's the humanitarian aid they were trying to get in. I am not going to waste much more time in this debate, which I believe is false, Mr Barrio, because you are very demanding with the Government of Venezuela, but not so much so, for example, with the governments of Argentina and Chile. We have been, I don't know, almost a year with an institutional declaration condemning the repression of the Mapuche people. I do not know, months, and he tells us that he is not sure of the responsibility of the Government, when there are images and testimonies, even judicialized things, where it is shown that the police of those two States have repressed and killed the Mapuche population. Either you or your party – I don't know if the Socialist Party or the Basque Nationalist Party – say anything about a deputy elected in Brazil, after Bolsonaro's election, having had to run away, because he had no guarantees of protection, a leftist deputy, a homosexual deputy, who was receiving death threats every day. But, well, as Bolsonaro for you is a lifelong democrat – well, well – nothing is said, or nothing is said about the poverty and violence that goes more and more in Macri's Argentina; but, as Macri is your friend, they do not say anything either. Or Orbán, who at least today is a member of the European People's Party, no matter how much they have started a procedure in the European People's Party, is still a member. Either they say nothing about Saudi Arabia's murder on foreign territory of a journalist, or they say nothing, none of the three political parties, that there are Basque and Spanish weapons that are killing people in Yemen every day. They don't say anything about that. And we signed trade agreements, and we take pictures of companies in Saudi Arabia, which are satraps that are involved in a private company, but they are all members of the genocidal family of the State of Saudi Arabia. Or they say nothing of the genocide of the State of Israel towards the Palestinian people. I think we also have some news this week about this in Euskadi, about an agreement with Israel. Mr Barrio, we signed institutional declarations in favour of refugees in this Basque Parliament; but for the time being, while you were ruling in the Government of Spain, those illegal prisons for the poor, which are the CIEs, were kept open. Or they did not comply with resettlement commitments. So, less double standards. We cater to all people alike, to people who ask for help from Venezuela as well. But to all and all alike. Also. I say that because of the possible answers you can make. If the Basque Cooperation Agency has to support any project in Venezuela, do so, if it meets the requirements. But, for consistency, we will vote against this initiative, that we will not oppose Agency projects that are necessary and that meet the Agency's requirements. We're talking about the initiative. But I find it curious that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party sign this initiative, when they are supporting a €5 million cut in the management of cooperation funds towards Basque oeneges, projects and programmes. A cut that, moreover, increases that non-compliance with a law of this House itself; because, with that non-expenditure of 453 million euros – that up to the amount of money is left – we are not able to reach that 0,7 %. And I am also surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party is signing a statement of support for the Basque community abroad, which will, I imagine, require the support of the Basque foreign delegations in order to be able to do so, as is done by the Directorate of Communities and also by the delegations we have in these countries, with the party that wants to eliminate those delegations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u90	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u91	It seems to me a curious formula of doing foreign country action, as you call it. In short, our engagement and solidarity with Venezuela, with the people of Venezuela, with conversation, with peace, and the right of self-determination of nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u92	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Lady EH Gatherer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u93	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. Today, in this parliament, I have come down with the desire to analyze this discussion of Venezuela. It was clear that, when we discussed the subject at the party that had passed through, PSE and PNV had no intention of making a constructive discussion, not even to dispute, because we must be inclined to listen to one another. And here it became clear that we saw a series of monologists, and I say "kisi," not "hear." And since today the facts which have been discussed have already been repeated, and the reasons given to them have been repeated again, since in the end they were only seeking to re-establish the agreement which they had obtained between three parties, the object is to speak again of Venezuela? A friend who makes an analysis of the language presented to me admirably the work of George Lachoff, and though I am far from his rank, I wish to bring these keys to Lakoffi, and to-day what I have read to-day. Let us therefore speak in language, discourse, and politics; for let us be honest, the goal is not Venezuela, and, using the keys marked by Lakoff, I will endeavour to express this. Trumpek in the United States, Bolsonaro in Brazil, Salvinik in Italy, is the same strategy of speech that Le Pen in France and ultra-right in Spain. Lakoff said that he'd developed four different kinds of work or strategy on social networks, and I think that these four might be exportable to these discussions about Venezuela. He called the first a preventive frame-that is to say, the first person to frame an idea. And in this last part of the legislature, this strategy of the Popular Party with Venezuela is the first point of view. On January 23, 2019, Juan Guaedó claimed himself to be President of Venezuela, and PP, at a terrible rate, brought the law in two days' reign of justice to this parliament, and he also set the frame for the government to confess to Juan Guaidó, the legitimate President of Venezuela. Here is the first full point: and PNV bought the frame and made your own. And if it be not with an example, we may appeal to the 23rd of February 2019, where the intervention disguised by humanitarian aid was intended, and we discussed the law five days later in January. PP wanted to place the frame of the humanitarian help in it, and then PNV and PSE, without any doubt, bought the frame you had bought, although those who give the same humanitarian help, the Red Cross and the United Nations' organization, said that they couldn't call it the humanitarian help of the United Nations, nor we, the Union organizations and the Red Crosses. And then came the premium and the motion for today. And what did we talk about today? We have not the Red Cross to say that the Red Cross has accepted the Edonian Red Cross, and that the Government has accepted it, nor have any of you mentioned it; for you have not laid down the blockade of the Pharmacies which you bought, and proposed solutions. You didn't even mark that one. Or you haven't even talked about the elections you mentioned in 2019. So you put the frame in place, and that's where you're moving. It's true that I want to congratulate Mr. Barrio, because experts think of the use of these strategies... and one of them said that those who make use of these strategies do not desire to gain the dispute, but only to mark it. But in this case Mr. Barrio has marked and won, because he has acquired the complicity of PNV and PSE. "Una parta del éxito no es solo mérito suyo, sino consecencia de los bugas de sus adversaries," due este experto. The second method is to dissect. At the time when there are matters that are important in our context, the discussion or the attention of the periguent, the reversal of the media, the reversal of the area: the trial against Catalan, the crisis of the Spanish State of Spain, the first steps of the ultra-violence government of Andalucia, the first steps of the anti-Artical government, in so many countries, in the country, of evangelical and Royal Governments with della Rebbia, of Cæuta and Melilla, of evaguines, of Venetians, Asiatics, Africans, and eautudes, and in many other matters which are intended to leave behind a second plane. And when we discussed this in the parliament, what did we propose, like other groups? We wanted to discuss the necessity of creating a prosecution against corruption from the Basque Country. Well... To the third, Lakoff, the messenger, tells the man who stands opposite... a strategy that aims to attack. For example, any eloquence that Trump is opposed to him or, after all, revealed by his own policy is news. And in this discussion, what has the Popular Party done? Well, his speech in conversation, not in politics, the independence and conversation of the people, has been said to us that we are Maduro's spokes spokesman. To answer the arguments, to what purpose should we answer the propositions, when we may be called madourists or dictators? It's so simple, isn't it? And, lastly, to throw away the globules of probes, to throw absurd ideas into it, whether there be any recipients on the other side. And for you, the probe globe has been Venezuela and abortion, feminism, woman's rights, historical memory. And today Prietus has thrown us another globade, because you told us that the people of Venezuela are a people of Venezuela in a world with the highest rate of violence. Well, no. There are two people of Mexico who have the highest rate of crime: There's the first Tijuana, then there's Acapulco, and then there's Caracas. But after that there is Victoria, who is in Mexico; there is Ciudad Juá, who is in Mexico; another village of Mexico, which I understand also my letter, "Guayan, Venezuela, seventh point, Nataly, Brazil, Fortalza, Brazil, Ciudad Bolívar, Venezuela, several villages of Mexico." But what about Mexico? And I mentioned in this report that the ultra-right one uses these methods, and some who thought the attention we were offering too much was too much, because they took too much of their poor presence in the institutions. And they said that we ought to think about it, but they said we ought to talk about it, not so much of what they said, but because it is a great influence on the other side. And Casado's Popular Party said it's using the same strategy. So you're giving PNV and PSE members to PPcos, and PPkoek in Spain to the ultra-right. The experts say that new frames must be created so that we can either confess or resist them, that we must use the language of values in front of this situation. And we, at their own time, are still sitting on the table, where we once more engaged the interviews and negotiations. You didn't want to go in there. To-day, again, you have placed on the table a frame of the three, and we, once more, give the people the power of managing their own affairs by consistency, to establish ways for this purpose, and to interview them on the table. And let the foreign institutions of government, which give human assistance, be at peace, but those who do it, not those who are disguised. And while I was talking about Lakoff, I forgot to tell you the name of his book in Nopiens en un elephant.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. By answering, Mr. Barrio, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u95	Gracias, president. Well, I'll try to be brief. I think you overestimate me a lot, Mrs Etxebarrieta. It overvalues me in relation to... The truth that political theory or theory, come on, social that has put on the table, of the frames, was very interesting, and I suppose it will serve on some issues. But I think here, I don't know, killing cannon flies to establish such a simple strategy; that is, I made an effort... Moreover, after the discussion of the compromise amendment of the non-law proposal, after the interpellation with the lehendakari, I made an effort to make an initiative absolutely devoid of political criticism, focused on the Basque-Venezuelan population, and seeking that, seeking that support. Moreover, that is why I am very satisfied and that is why I think I have done well, because we have reached that agreement and that agreement is going to be approved. And precisely, the Basque-Venezuelan people will see that the Basque Parliament continues to develop and strengthen agreements in their favour, if necessary. And as it is clear that they need it, we have done something positively. I think balloons probe, talk about balloons probe in relation to these issues... You've tried to puncture the balloon, but you haven't done it. Indeed, we have maintained, if you want, to call this type of agreements or this type of balloons probe attitudes; you have wanted to pinch it and not: it is impossible for you to pinch it. Because, more effort than Mr Martínez Zatón in trying to puncture this globe, that is, it is impossible. I mean, I don't want to discuss with him or you, right now, the political issues – we've already done it – but you're the one who shoots everything that moves. I mean, you come to the rostrum, and you're worth all the arguments of all kinds. I mean, Trump, the first of all, but then everyone else. Then, our initiatives on other topics, our debates on others... We're talking about what we're talking about right now; I don't know, we need to focus a little bit. I'm not telling you politically, I'm saying in the speech, Mr. Martinez, I... I repeat that you are incoherent in what you say. No, no... We must support, we must help, but I will vote against this initiative. But this initiative is of help and support. Please look at it, read it: strengthen measures and the possibility of return, apart from those I have already explained excellently by Mr Aguirre, and ask the government for information from Parliament. I mean, and we're not talking about Guaidó or Maduro or Trump; that is, we're talking about what we're talking about. And, besides, what they want us to really talk about is those who are having a bad time and those who are looking at us right now. I mean, the goal is... He said that he does not know what the aim of this initiative is and that they will vote against it. The aim of this initiative is to give support to Venezuelan Basques in Venezuela, to those who are having a bad time, to those who look at us and ask us for help. And we're willing to give it to him. That. And I suppose many of those people will be very disconcerted when they hear their speeches, their speeches going away from that obligation of ours. Because it's no longer... That is, that I have brought this matter to the House, for I have brought it; that is, the government does not usually bring initiatives. Well, wait till the opposition brings them in and I've put it on the table. You and Mrs Etxebarrieta weren't going to bring her; I brought her. I have brought them to the debate: the interpellation and this motion. And it is an inconsistency for you: it would not be an inconsistency to vote on a political compromise amendment, but it is an inconsistency not to vote on a humanitarian and aid motion, aid, which you have recognized, which you need the people, which you have recognized. So, in that sense, don't tell me... And you tell me about other issues, other countries, other realities, other points or issues that we have on the table. He told me about Argentina, he told me about Chile, he told me about Brazil; hence people don't come out millions every day, don't come out millions fleeing poverty and extreme poverty. There are no such conditions; as soon as there are, we will criticize them. And there are other issues on which we may have doubts, as we raise them. I am not going to condemn a country, a State like Argentina, a State like Chile, simply. I need elements of judgment. I'm not... Again, we're turning into I don't know what kind of courts. In that sense, there must be many more elements of judgment. I will express concern about some issues such as those raised by you and, of course, we will demand investigation and clarification of facts. But to condemn for free those States which, of course, are states of law, perfectly democratic, with existing and democratic constitutions and with elections, I think it is useless. So you don't distract attention. This subject I think causes him pain; it causes him pain, but not for Venezuela, but it causes him pain because he loses it and why he doesn't know how to defend Maduro. I think that's the fundamental issue. You're getting out of hand, Mr. Martinez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u97	President, ladies and gentlemen. Expressing and practicing humanitarian aid, the truth is that it needs very little explanation. Its same name indicates what it means: it helps people. Denying it does need much more explanation. Denying it needs, it needs a lot of wrap, it needs a lot of twists, it needs to mix many things, it needs to retreat to debates, it needs to compare with other countries, it needs to catch any incident to put it before that help, and that is what Mrs Etxebarrieta has done and what Mr Martínez has done in his explanations. That is to say, to want to escape from that humanitarian aid, trying to use, through words, a variant of a no to humanitarian aid. This is what you are going to vote on today, in this House. There are going to be three political groups that are going to vote for humanitarian aid for the people of Venezuela, and you are going to vote no for that humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is food, it is medicine; humanitarian aid is mobility; it is having opportunities elsewhere, it is returns; humanitarian aid is that; humanitarian aid is cooperation and solidarity; humanitarian aid is not taking a position or defining itself by an ideological aspect or by a programmatic aspect or by a model of country or by a model of government. Humanitarian aid is to meet the basic needs that a State is unable to provide to its citizens, through such cooperation and international solidarity. And this is what we intend to do here. Obviously, that which you deny, since you are against that humanitarian aid, as it seems to you a little delicate, a little indecorous... To pose no to humanitarian aid, they need to go to books, writers, countries, characters, situations that try to divert the foundation, the substance... of what is raised here. If we had wanted to make a political approach to confrontation and have linked or linked humanitarian aid to that political approach, obviously we would not have come with an initiative and a compromise amendment that speaks only of humanitarian aid, we would have done so in other political terms, as happened a few weeks ago. Indeed, there were different political and ideological assessments of the background, which were contrasted here. But today, the initiative and the compromise amendment is white, it is clear, it is clean, it is humanitarian aid, humanitarian aid that three political groups in this House want to practice with Venezuelan citizens and with those more specifically who have a Basque origin, and that is what two political groups in this House want to deny for other reasons, which have nothing to do with food, have nothing to do with health, have nothing to do with employment, have nothing to do with housing, or have nothing to do with those basic needs that people suffer, that a certain model of governance has led them to the most absolute of misery. You seem to want to give the impression here that there is nothing wrong in Venezuela, that there are no humanitarian problems in Venezuela, and that is why luxury, unpleasant luxury, retrograde luxury, are allowed to say no to humanitarian aid. Parliament's minutes will show its refusal to provide humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u98	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. It was a different discussion today, and I don't understand how it's so hard to admit it to you, and how it's so hard for you not to see anything that's so difficult about Venezuela. that is clear and clear. And here, this morning, there are various things that are preached, and then what is worth outside is no good. And Mr. Martínez often talks of democracy, democracy, democracy, and a non-democratic regime is difficult for you to accuse and condemn. Well, I don't understand, and I told you three weeks ago in another discussion: I really don't get it. I don't get it in my head. And you say that Venezuela is in a critical state and that he is missing 240 billion dollars or so, I don't care. But, by the way, Venezuela has had enough resources for the last 20 years to fix things, and they haven't solved it. Venezuela has sufficient resources, more than enough, to fix specific issues such as those it has had for a few years, such as structural ones, and nothing has been done. But I am not going into that debate, which is another, that is the debate we had three weeks ago. I think it would be a rather difficult exercise to mention a morpholrugistic analysis of Ceutut, Melilla, abortion... For not interfering in Argentina and Chile. Mr Price and Barrio said to you: this is a help not only for Venezuela, but also for our group, and you will have to explain it to us, because in Venezuela we know what band of men we have. "And you shall explain why you have voted against it, and those who have come from there: "There are many who are evil in this place, and you will have to explain this also to your people. And I really don't understand this negative vote. Ye are afraid: that is the subject, that you are afraid. And I'll finish this, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u100	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Together Podemos, Martínezion, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u101	In the debate we had on Venezuela's previous initiative, I think it was Mrs Etxebarrieta who explained how we reached consensus that we had and that we have in the Commission on Human Rights, eta baita ere Kanpo Harremanetarako Batzordean. Every year, I don't know how long, this Parliament tests a game of thirty thousand dollars, I think for the Estanza Sahar, to lead the fight and the humanist for the sake of the Sahara. Yes, the work behind the theory is done with the consensus, it is done with the consent of all parties or of all groups, and I am prepared for it, even with Venezuela. To talk about Goe, very quietly, where it's supposed to go, how we have to do it, who we have to talk to. I'm ready whenever you like. What we are not going to do is support this initiative, which is an initiative of propagating politics. Because this aid can perfectly be received by the Basque Cooperation Agency, it can receive a request, as, if I am not mistaken, the Alboan Foundation has had a project approved this year; such aid goes to the Basque Cooperation Agency, to programmes, to projects or to humanitarian aid, depending on what they are, and there, if they meet the requirements, they are approved. And I said, of course, it is not my role either because there is a regulation and a series of plans and a series of approaches, and I will not question them, because I am sure and trust in the work of the Basque Cooperation Agency, even if it is critical of some things. We have said nothing against that; we are talking about this initiative. And, Mr Prieto, I am going to sleep very calmly for that very reason, because what we are defending is that the public policy of cooperation and humanitarian aid is based, one, on the law of cooperation and on all the development plans of the Basque Agency for Cooperation and, if not, for example, with that extraordinary aid that exists with the Saharan people, on unanimous agreements of this Parliament. And what the Red Cross, the Pan American Health Organization, Unicef and other agencies have certainly done, which is to talk to the government that governs in Venezuela, I like it better, you like it less or more... you have talked to them and you have agreed a number of procedures, but not now, many years ago. And that's what we want to do. Surely, the Basque Government, I do not know if it has had talks with the Venezuelan Consulate in Bilbao, with the Embassy of Venezuela in Spain, which will certainly not have any problems, that if things are done as Unicef is doing, is doing it by the UN, is doing it by the Pan American Health Organization or the International Red Cross, things are doing well. But no media noise, because its initiative, no initiative of any political group in this House, is neither objective nor partial. And that is the case, and this initiative, in that sense, complements his previous initiative, I do not know whether they are dry of ideas to present to this Parliament or have found a niche of votes in this matter of Venezuela. And, Mr Prieto, I say again, I do not know, you have been in this institution for many years, and I say again that the Basque Parliament does not approve the items; in fact, we had to pass those accompanying laws because there were no budgets this year. What does this mean, what's the game going to be? Would it not be better for the Basque Cooperation Agency to do its work on the basis of the law, on the basis of its approaches and its work plans, so that, if there are oenegi who want to work in Venezuela, they present their projects, present them there and the Basque Parliament does not partially intercede in this work? Because there are very different ideological projects within the projects approved at the Basque Cooperation Agency, and everyone has room; everyone has room, if they meet technical and administrative requirements. That is what we are doing, so I have a very clear conscience that we are not here against any real humanitarian aid; we are not against that. We are talking about a partial political initiative, which seeks what it seeks, which is media noise, political noise and not helping the Venezuelan population, which is what, in fact, we all had to focus on, because, if not, what comes to bring an initiative to the plenary, when, surely, from behind, working very calmly, very cautiously, we could even reach an agreement in the humanitarian terms, provided that they are not used politically either in Venezuela or anywhere else, always without political interests behind; always without political interests behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u102	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u103	We said with perfect composure, and even at his own time, when we had a quarrel: We're ready to talk to anybody, and we've done it, and we're still doing it. To-day, too, it seemed as if we were not able to join the public interviews, because we might have recalled the discussion of Venezuela, which people in the public had very well interposed us, both Mr Martín and myself, with different exclamations and gestures. But that doesn't mean there's no problem doing that to someone who's invited by EH Collect. Ezetz is a diagogue and leaves a bear, zeren and aletukus had pixka beat zuek hona ekarri two proposed. Hain da dirudienez iraultzailea posetzen arizaretena, eta da: "After his last pronouncement in favor of a humanitarian action..." Already starting from there, if we did not agree with the last pronouncement, how we were going to support this proposal. But, well, let's continue: "...continue to develop and strengthen the necessary measures". "Continue developing" k badakigu zer esan nahi duen, jarrai ten la orina arte bezala. Eta's been fighting... "and strengthening", very well, but continue to develop and reinforce. But it's the usual, Mr. Barrio. And we have voted many times against proposals that have this formula, because we already know that it is the usual thing, that it is that it continues to do the usual thing. That we are not against it continuing to do the usual thing, as Mr Martínez has explained to us, which seems very good, that the Basque Cooperation Agency has a set of bars for people to bring projects, that for humanitarian aid there are also processes that must be carried out. Let all those who comply receive it, of course. But it's just, come on, so that we can say again that it continues to develop, no. We in that, the truth... Well, I'm still on the subject. "Humanitarian crisis", it seems to me that it is a term that, although Mr Prieto has tried to put it as if it were a neutral thing, you know very well, as I do, that it is not a neutral term, that it is something that is being used, and that I think very well that we are debating about it. But, well, I mean: here of neutrality everyone sees what they want to see, and to me it seems that, when we are putting some concrete terms, we have all the right of the world to come down and analyze what we think, which is what we have done in our turn. Still, you said we were denying the biggest one. The one who does not listen is you, because here both Mr Martínez and I have not said at any time that in Venezuela you live well. At no time. In fact, we have said the opposite: that the situation is very serious and that it needs different international organizations exempt from being used, which is what they were trying to do in Cúcuta, but that, for example, the International Red Cross can carry out its work, because there is difficulty of supplies, which we mentioned four weeks ago in the debate we had. We don't deny anything. The one who comes out here saying that we don't say anything is to keep it on record that both EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can be... And what I was saying in the first speech: you create the framework and it gives you no matter, but completely and equally, what we have to say here. Finally, what is also new is that Parliament should be asked to take stock of requests for humanitarian aid received each year, as well as the response measures put in place by the Basque Government. Well, well, we're going to vote for this that no, to the whole that no, because we say again – and that's what we were trying to explain – that we don't know why we have to receive something with Venezuela that we think – and I say it again – every year can be interesting, but there are a lot of countries in the world that we should also be dealing with and that you, again, focus on one again. Why doesn't the name of other countries appear here, if they were trying to do something so neutral?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. We're going to discuss and vote the Basque Popular Groups, the half-correction signed by Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u105	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, Edurne Garcia, introduced together as members of the Podemos, as a model of culture and a preparation for space. Discipline and final resolution. The call for the proposed team, Mrs. García Troublembie, is your word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u106	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to you all again, thank you, Madame. Today we are bringing to this House a motion on the working conditions of people working in the infrastructure and cultural spaces of Euskadi, who are in a precarious situation. To this end, it must be explained that subcontracting and outsourcing policies are a plague that has spread throughout the economic and productive structure, as well as in public administrations, such as those of the Basque public sector. The aim, often, is not to perform services more efficiently, but to try to compress costs in an apparent way, reducing actual expenditure on labour costs, as well as to place and maintain workers working in these services in a position of contractual weakness. With the publication of Law 3/2016 of 7 April, for the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, one of the key aspects in relation to labour rights, such as the subrogation of subcontracted personnel, is not guaranteed, nor is any contribution made to assess or question the policy of subcontracting and outsourcing in public administrations. The question of subrogation, which is well known to those who fight for not including it, means maintaining minimum conditions of employment and wages, which put pressure on the profit margins of subcontracted companies. And in this scenario, what companies would not want to access public contracts? However, for those public contracts that are based on the provision of personnel and perhaps some material means that could be covered by the Administration itself, what does it make sense – we ask ourselves – to subcontract these activities? In this policy of privatization, open or covert, involving subcontracting and outsourcing, aspects such as the lack of efficiency and the deterioration of working conditions and services provided are interlinked. In the Public Procurement Analysis report But we will focus on what is happening in the field of culture in Euskadi, more specifically on subcontracting and outsourcing of own activity or which could be carried out with own resources and which entails increasing the costs of supervision of contracts and their proper execution. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we have been denouncing that the Basque Government is promoting a cultural model that only generates thematic parks of precariousness; a cultural model of the 21st century, which, in the face of budget cuts, together with the extension of the business model within the public cultural management, has caused the rise of another type of business, the result of the outsourcing of certain services. It began with cafés, bookstores, then with cleanliness and security, followed the lockers, the wardrobes, the audio guides, the surveillance of rooms, and with even greater impact on the relationship of museums and art centers with society, mediation and education. The companies that provide these services take the first place in the award of contracts in the major public cultural spaces in Euskadi, because more and more museums and cultural centres cover these needs through competition, eliminating the own staff they had at the time or excluding from the beginning the possibility of hiring them. And, while certain companies do their August, the workers they subcontract suffer the worst working conditions that can be imagined. The directors and directors responsible for museums, art centers or foundations and administrations that manage these cultural halls and centers are perfectly aware that they are encouraging and giving shelter to underemployment, but they cover their noses, while watching the awards or giving them the approval. And it is then, by applying these labour policies in the infrastructure and cultural spaces of our community, when labor conflicts arise. Let's put specific cases: One of the most paradigmatic examples is the disastrous work management of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, where the Basque Government has direct responsibility. The 18 people in the education and guidance departments of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, on the staff of an ETT, declared themselves on strike to demand an improvement in wages, compensation for the holidays worked and the subrogation of their contracts. Working conditions were not worthy in a museum that receives public money, around 6 million euros per year. And what did the Museum Authority do with public money in response to the fair demands of the workers? The answer of the Guggenheim Museum foundation was the cessation of the relationship with the ETT that had carried out for two years the outsourcing of their work and the internalization of the work that their workers were doing, which meant the immediate dismissal of most of these people. The staff who entered the foundation's payroll was reduced to three, and the others lost their jobs. The three recruitments were from female workers who had not followed the strike. The sentences, which have been ratified in recent months, dictate that there was revenge and retaliation from the museum towards the workers for the strike. I remind you that strike is a constitutionally protected right. This sentence condemned them for violating the fundamental right to strike, nothing more or less. For this reason, the centre must readmit the plaintiffs, and forced the museum to pay compensation of more than 6,000 euros for each re-admitted striker, in addition to declaring the dismissals void, which shows that their claims were just from the beginning and that the museum acted in an absolutely irresponsible and illegal manner. Let us continue with another example of precariousness, the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao. The staff of sub-contracted room assistants of the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao had unfortunate working conditions, wages of misery, insecurity in employment... In addition, the request of the staff was recognized to reach the figure of 1,200 euros net monthly for 14 paid per year. Finally, they were able to charge from 10,400 euros to 20,500 euros per year. This agreement also guaranteed the right of subrogation, and it was the triumph of the struggle maintained by the workers, in no case by the institutions. Let's go with another case. The 25 people who work under contract in Azkuna Zentroa have not been guaranteed their jobs for eight years, since they are not guaranteed subrogation to contract changes; the salaries they receive are around 800 euros; the centre opens 365 days a year; most contracts are part-time, and in the last eight years they have been frozen. It should also be noted that the collective agreement that has been applied to them for eight years has nothing to do with the work or service they perform and that its implementation has been absolutely irregular. And we could cite more cases, but, as we explained in the inquiry a few weeks ago, there is a labor dispute, that of the workers of the Ubik library of Tabakalera in Donostia, who have been on strike for more than 100 days demanding decent working conditions, which could be solved if you put on your side. Subcontracted workers who serve the public in the Ubik library demand solutions: solutions and dialogue. In view of the fact that the Board of Directors of Tabakalera is made up of representatives of Gipuzkoa, Donostia City Council and the Basque Government, we do not understand from our parliamentary group how no action is taken and why a situation of unacceptable job insecurity in a public cultural infrastructure has not been resolved so far under their responsibility. On strike workers only want to reach an agreement that will put an end to the precariousness to which they are subjected, working conditions that make them unable to enjoy the holidays whenever they want, but that are distributed in their weeks of rest, favored by the work on shifts they perform or receive an average net remuneration of 990 euros, to mention two of the working conditions in which they find themselves. In short, we have long denounced that the privatization and subcontracting promoted by the political parties that govern our institutions, this outsourcing, this model of generating thematic parks of precariousness in cultural infrastructures of the twenty-first century, results in eventuality, lower wages and fewer rights and guarantees for women workers. All these conflicts have in common that the public administration is responsible for managing them. And the aim of the Administration is not to offer a good public service in good conditions, but to lower the bidding of the service, regardless of the working conditions and always favoring, oh surprise!, the interests of the contracting companies. And these conflicts also have something else in common: often the party that is currently in power in these administrations is the Basque Nationalist Party. These workers can only resort to mobilization and strike to defend or claim better working conditions. And, in many cases, these strikes are overextended, because of the negligent negotiating will of the Basque administration and government, when, in this case, in Tabakalera, he is co-responsible, because he is also a member, as I have said, of the Governing Council. That is why today we have brought an initiative, and we regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement – and it has not been because we have not tried – with the rest of the political forces. An initiative that responds fundamentally to two issues: the first is that this Parliament should show its support and manifest itself in favour of women workers and that is in favour of quality employment in the infrastructure and cultural spaces in Euskadi, and that, in some way, resolves the conflict of women workers in the Ubik library, so that they can have decent working conditions. We ask: in the face of concrete problems, concrete solutions, and we find a lack of will and a lack of willingness to agree. The other issue we raise in our initiative is to develop a detailed study on outsourcing in the infrastructure and cultural services of Euskadi, because I have listed some of the examples here today, but there are many more, and to have strict compliance with Law 3/2016, on the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, because we understand that institutions have to guarantee, preserve and defend decent working conditions, above and above economic interests. For us, it is a proposal that puts concrete solutions to the list of labor conflicts, and to the expansion and normalization of precariousness in cultural spaces in Euskadi. But we have met – and you are in time to vote in favour – with opposition from most of the other groups, and we regret that, in the face of a specific problem and a concrete solution that we present today, you decide to do absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Madame Kortha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u108	Yes, good afternoon, ladies and congressmen. It is now 104 days since the Ubik workers are on strike, and we meet with a long-distance confessional between this round of public services and those public services which are subcontradicted, a long strike. First of all, another memory, and there's also the workers of the Gipuian deposits on strike, and there's a warm farewell to them from here, because they're found in a similar situation. In any case, it's a confessional that's going on for a long time with Ubike workers and those intermediary, it's a sort of confessional that's being complicated instead of searching for solutions, and I can also say that the citizens are leaving the room where they are leaving us to feel a great deal. I live very near Tabal, and my children are the children of Ubik, as many and as many of them do, and I dare say that there have been a great many of them from the hand of Ubike and Tabaler to creation, well, or into the sphere of this creative culture, which they have had access. Often, for the first time, we have found ourselves plunged in a cultured movement by Tabaler and Ubeck, but especially Ubike has given us a space for a privilege interaction. For the first time, we felt a part of this cult movement of citizens, a comfortable space, not a cult. The Central Cultural Centers, a private building apart from the neighbourhood and the city opening, to every person, to every Christian... to enter, explore, experiment, set up bridges for discipline, to test new practice in some way, and to collaborate, he even gave us the opportunity to join, and even gave us the experience of being a member of the creating communities. On tabaler's Web page, it is said that different projects and institutions that make Tabalala have a mission to help us develop the creative and critical capabilities of the Basque society, encourage the creative and organising leisure. And that's a tremendous mission. To create reflections, and to ask questions, Tabakaler intends to search for answers to contemporary societies, to challenge great challenges, and to be connected with the current inclinations. And in all this, Ubik is a specially important piece of meeting, for it is a place for dialogue and together to discover and develop their creative capacity for many. Ubik is a specialized creation library – I would like to emphasize that it specializes in contemporary culture and is open to citizens. Ubik, beyond the essential and basic services of a library, stimulates learning and creative capacity; fosters interactions, connections and experiences of shared knowledge, collaboration and co-creation; fosters inclusive and transformative culture, and is therefore vital. Ubik is not just a library, it is not a leisure space for use, nor is Tabakalera, and of course it is not a tourist space either; it is not a space for the incomparable frame to be more beautiful, but for producing experiences that are incomparable. Baina esperentizia, komunikazio, interakzio eta sorkuntza eta elkarsorkuntzarako prozesu horiek ez dira eraikin eder batan baitan bakarrik izazin; ez dira was spontaneous batan izazin: probokatu, eragin, sustatu, prestatu, sortu eta bilatu egin behar dira. And so the Tabalers, in general, all those projects which are performed in Tabaler, have their accomplices, and become a very important piece in the attempt in which Tabalers and, in general, the pretty ones of our culture are directed. I used to tell you that Tabakler's mission, and I used to say they're fundamental pieces, and these pieces of substantial material, these intermediary, are involved in complete predominance. And I have been trying to determine in what context or context or in what context this prercancy is, what speciality and what speciality it is that we're talking about, but, as Edurne Garcí has well described, Arba, Gipulia, and Biska, are the foundation of culture. It is the state of morality which is repeating in space, and it may be said that, from the hand of subcontradiction and such practics, cultivation is becoming a work-based in culture. It is a model of precariousness that hides an invisible reality, that hides, after a rather perverse pose, an unvalued, unrecognized, poorly paid and very precarious reality. A reality that, from our point of view, has to emerge, because the accompaniment in exploration, in experimentation, in the generation of interactions, in communication, in all those experiences that offer these spaces, must be recognized, but requires preparation, requires prepared people, specialized and with many skills. All these experiences associated with these cultural spaces require preparation, they require creating materials, supports, tools, and they also require that these people are constantly taking care of the conditions for creation. It requires design and time that we must recognize, without forgetting, moreover, that many of those people who do such mediation work, often, have to repair the damage that our cultural policies generate, have to repair truncated expectations, have to repair misadjustments. And that too must be recognized and valued. However, we find that all this, which is a model, let us say, of avant-garde, is managed with a model that is governed by commercial criteria, under criteria that are totally capitalist; an inclusive, transformative culture, with a model of precarious and totally capitalist management, which, if something precarious, is the life of people. I honestly do not believe this story, this romantic image, of the creators who believe most in precariousness. I don't believe her. I think it can be created in very good living conditions, and that is what we aspire to. So, we understand that there is no alignment in what is this attempt to bet on a transformative and inclusive culture, with respect to what is that management model that is being promoted. He used to tell us Larraitz Ugarte that you can't have first-class infrastructure with third-party wages, and I think you can. You can't be a vanguard by managing people's misery. And Ubik's companions and companions who came here explained very well what their situation was: engineers, engineers, people with a very important preparation, specialized, with wages of less than 1,000 euros; although, as this government has begun to value as very positive the 1,000 euros, it is perhaps considered appropriate. And this is the result of that proactive and exemplary attitude that Mrs Larrauri told us earlier about the recruitment models that this Government, among others, has. This is also the principle of reality. What Ubik workers came to explain to us is also the principle of reality. This too must be answered with responsibility. What we are asking is that the entities on these boards align themselves with this project of culture that they are promoting, and that, in addition, they do this work of mediators and generate decent living conditions, which allow to create with dignity and which allow to create with pleasure and encouragement. That is why we proposed, apart from recognizing the situation being experienced by Ubik mediators and mediators, apart from recognizing that situation, apart from saying that cultural policies cannot be separated from policies that promote adequate and dignified living conditions and working relations – these policies cannot be separated – we proposed that this law of social clauses be adopted here, allowing other forms of recruitment to be established in the development of these and other cultural policies. In conclusion, I would say that I believe that, if it is committed to inclusive and transformative culture, that is totally at odds with a culture that is mercantilized, that takes advantage of – let's say – of formation, specialization and not recognize it, that does not recognize the times for creation and for development. It is a situation that is repeated in other areas of public responsibility from other areas we maintain the same discourse, and we understand that the application of social clauses, of going to criteria, to a new culture... for public procurement, it is essential for us to be able to truly address those challenges posed by that mission, such as that posed by Tabakalera. Esto es pollítica real, say, poítica a real que referencia la señora Ugarte; these are real policies that offer the conditions of which they produce a better life, politics which render them worthy of life, and I am sure that interesting processes of creation are the policies which have enabled them to choose incrusives, incrusives, and radicals. The other politics are the politics of equity which do not place themselves in the middle of life, and are politics which, in contrast to such crude situations, look on the other side.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u109	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u110	Eta horiek, act juridikoki... surely, these policies of subcontracting, precarious working conditions and precarious living, offer legal certainty; at best, they offer legal certainty, but they do not offer, in any way, vital security.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know if today good day, or good noon; we are going to leave it in greetings to everyone, given how the march of the day is going and also the point that we are dealing with today and, in particular, Mrs Kortajarena has said: they are workers who have been on strike for 104 days. It is a difficult situation; it is a situation that is eternalizing in time, and that to all and all of us who live in Donostia, very close to Tabakalera or a little further away, but I believe that to all those who are committed to the object that in principle I believed was the motion presented, we are concerned and must occupy ourselves. That is why I want to start by expressing solidarity and concern about the situation of these workers and their families, about the long labour conflict that they keep open with the company providing the service. We share, as I believe he put it in one of the amendments tabled – and, moreover, it has been said in the rostrum by more than one of the speakers – that the persecution of guaranteeing decent working relations and conditions and of quality employment must be one of the fundamental principles of public procurement policies, promoted or promoted by the Basque Government or any public institution in those policies of its competence and responsibility. That is why we believe – and we bet on that stated principle; I believe that it was in the amendment of the whole of EH Bildu, by Mrs Kortajarena – that the Basque Government, as we also support the Gipuzkoa General Councils and call on the Foral Chamber, should continue to maintain, within the areas of its competence, dialogue, timely negotiation... promote dialogue and timely negotiation between the company and trade union representation, in order to ensure and guarantee decent working conditions for all workers of the Ubik library in Tabakalera. I share that Tabakalera, which yes, has also been used, perhaps not by me but also by my daughter, is not a theme park; Tabakalera is not something for tourists, Tabakalera is an effort by many institutions and many political ideologies present in this Parliament to make and build a contemporary centre of first order here in our country, and I believe that it has been tried and has been achieved on many occasions. I also share the view that there can be no such quality centre without adequate working conditions for workers; another thing is that it shares the view that nothing has been done. I believe that on the part of some members of the Board of Directors... For example, Mr Itxaso raised and even addressed the director of Tabakalera herself, so that this matter could be reconsidered and that much more dignified and adapted working conditions could be adopted for other services than in the centre of Tabakalera itself, the same company that has awarded the Ubik service; for example, the film school, which has much better conditions. Another thing is that we hit or share how to make that transit. We understand that dialogue can be fostered and that it can be made or sought out which go within that dignity of the working conditions, adjusted to the service of the first which, I am sure, they are providing. Another thing is that this can only be solved by applying a specific convention. I do believe that they are doing special work, of particular relevance in the interrelationship with certain people who attend that library, but I also know, or it is the opinion at least of the Socialist Group, that what we are missing is a specific agreement, not on the application of social integration, because, among other things, the integrators do not know whether they would understand it correctly if it were to be applied, but a special agreement for this staff of cultural spaces and infrastructures. Beyond the libraries, all these centers that are being created, I insist, to conform to these new cultural offerings, which, as Mrs Kortajarena said, are of first order and require a staff who work, at least, in decent conditions, because I share with you that creating is not better created in precariousness. Artists have the same rights and guarantees, or should they have, to carry out their work, whether or not the work between the artist and the consumer of culture, to do so under the same decent working conditions as all others. I'm not going to question that. So, can something be done? Yes, because, in fact, it is being done in one of the services provided by Tabakalera; in that sense, I understood, as a discrepancy in the application of the integration agreement; since, from the Socialist Group, we are betting on the work between those to whom they belong – and those who are the trade union representation and the company – for the opening of a process of dialogue for a specific territorial agreement, in relation to the cultural agents working in this sector. In the meantime, as long as this dialogue and negotiation do not bear fruit, action will have to be taken, of course, and action can be taken in strict compliance with the 96 law, which has been discussed and quoted earlier by Mrs Kortajarena. Another thing is the political position that she has maintained and reiterated in the rostrum; but, as long as that does not have a broader political consensus, the situation of Ubik workers can be resolved or considerably improved. That is why it could not be an agreement, because we understood, I have clearly said, that we do not believe that this convention should be applied, nor that the problem is only an application of the convention. We believe that the Directorate of Tabakalera, together with the members of the Board of Directors, can act through the preparation of the specifications for improving the service, as has been done with other services provided. Furthermore, we believe that we do not need to open, in relation to cultural infrastructures alone, or only on the occasion of the existing labour conflict in Ubik in Tabakalera, the process of analysis of externalisation, which seems to me – and I have told Mrs García personally – to be an interesting debate, which can be raised in a more global way, but which, within the particularity that we are now dealing with, seems to us to be out of place. This does not mean that the debate does not fit, nor that from the conclusions of a report we draw some aspects that help us to improve, through the incorporation of social clauses or through the improvement of the specifications, the services of these cultural infrastructures. Because, and I will end this – and if there is any question, I will answer it – I think something can be done now; there is no reason to expect the implementation of a convention, which is not peaceful the implementation of the social integration convention. Nor do we have to wait for employers and trade unions to agree on an agreement for the sector, which, in our opinion, would be the most timely, but we do believe that from the Management Board, as proposed in the amendment or proposed in the amendment of the whole presented with the Basque Nationalist group, together with the Directorate of Tabakalera, it can be resolved through the improvement of the leaflets, as has been done by giving up the economic aspects in favour of working conditions in the film school which, I insist, the same company that has the conflict with the workers of Ubik, in particular, in Tabakalera. This is what I can say. I believe that the initiative was put forward because it responded to a concern which is also of this Parliament, as was the General Councils of Gipuzkoa and the City of San Sebastian. We have different solutions, but I think we are much closer to what we have shown in signing a compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. Mrs García, for us this image that we understand you want to extend, in the light of the reading of your non-legislative proposal, that, as far as cultural equipment is concerned, the Administration's objective is not to offer a good public service, but to throw prices down, regardless of the working conditions of the workers, reducing expenditure and keeping in a position of weakness the workers of the services, does not correspond either with the reality or with the actual sequence of the facts. This sub-contracting that you demonize is given for different reasons, and it may be costing one of them, because everyone here has to adjust to their budget, but not necessarily the only one, because we can be faced with the assumption that staff cannot be legally recruited for public administration, and that the administrations consider that, in need of equipment, put into operation a service, that service must not be directly managed from the administration; finally, the case may be varied. This recourse, that of subcontracting, which, on the other hand, we all use. Looks like the plague you're talking about is spread by all of us. The Councillor has already mentioned this in the reply to his question, that we all use this resource and mentioned a number of municipalities in which the company Sedena in particular is also installed. Or, on the other hand, should we remember who decided to subcontract the Ubik service of Tabakalera on March 30, 2015? Do we remember? Who ruled in the Donostia City Hall or the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council? Of course, then there are references to first-rate infrastructure and fourth-rate conditions, to the bet on transformative culture, to real policies, to legal certainty versus vital security, but what is often shown is that it is not the same thing to preach as to give wheat. The sequence continues that, decided on subcontracting, the tender is made, a tender price is stipulated and the bid is opened. Let us say that, for concrete examples, I am talking about the Ubik library in Tabakalera, where the bid price was set at EUR 648,000 and was awarded for EUR 454,000. It is true that this type of downward offer is often made on the basis of differences in the agreements being handled. But you will have to recognize that, at that very first moment, everyone points to the car of the "bird in hand that will already have time to fight for the hundred flying", without, many times, denouncing the wage conditions from the beginning, and poor besides the public administration that does not take the lowest offer, because it will be squandered with public money, spreading all kinds of shadow of suspicion on many people. The sequence continues that, when the legitimate demands to improve the working and wage conditions begin, very often the strategy of the majority union of this country is followed, as is the case, let us put, from the library Ubik of Tabakalera, blocking the collective negotiation, blocking the negotiation between the company and the workers, maintaining indefinite strikes with the resistance box, in order to confront the Administration, in a strategy called counterpower. And this does not happen only in the field of cultural workers, because they are considered second-class workers; it happens in residences, in Kristau Eskola, in various fields. It's a whole strategy that you guys usually do choirs on. And to show a button. Look at what you were saying at the end of your first speaking time, on 20 March, to Ubik's representatives on the Committee on Labour and Justice. He said to them: "Understanding that it is a private matter," you said, "we believe that there are reverberations, such as the Board of Directors of Tabakalera, that by being made up of the Culture Advisor himself, Mr. Zupiria, and other members who are public representatives, there is a point of responsibility against which something can be done." What's the comeback? These legislative initiatives: the inquiry and this subsequent motion. For what purpose? Well, you already say that, that of doing something against it. A legislative initiative that calls on us, in addition to showing support for women workers, to implement a coherent labour policy on outsourcing, which rigorously complies with the law on the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, which we assume is already being done, and which also calls for a detailed study on outsourcing, with a rosary of details to be carried out. And in front of that, our position is clear and consistent with the corrections made by our members of the great organizations of the Gipulia. What we're saying is, "OK" to say, "OK" in the matter of its own jurisdiction, "trouble" or "trouble" with the representatives of corporations and unions. I mean, we're gonna help, but we're gonna get a company agreement and a worker's. We make the words of the chief physician, addressed on the day of the intermediary, when he expressed the position of the editor of Tabacall, saying: "To resolve the conflict between him and his employees, there is no other way than dialogue. In the same way, I understand that the mediums wish to improve their conditions of work; but since it is a conflict of labour, it must be agreed between the company and its employees." Later on, a half-way proposal was given to us, but it seemed to us a medium in which the agreement was impossible, for it was an original initiative that I know of Omnipotents, and our first point of exchange with Rollings, which, in a manner, was in some degree the theme of Ubike, wholly modified and unreached, our fundamental position, i.e. and in general, without the agreement of the companies and workmen, which in all such cases ought to be occupancy. Besides, when the workers who came to announce the contract of social intervention were also told us that they had abandoned this surrender and that what they claim is that they know how to apply the paytable of social intervention. And to the beginning, to the foundation... I will go: the salary board is allowed to ask for their application, but it'll have to come from the company and the workers' agreement. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, you will understand that we will maintain our correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u115	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u116	With the coming of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Despite what we have seen in the morning, this is a Parliament, and here the Members of this Parliament are supposed to come to Parliament, that is, to talk, to talk and to try to resolve the differences that we can find, from the basis of our arguments and ideologies. And today it is up to me to come up to the rostrum and try to explain, with simple words, why, from the parliamentary group of the Basque people, we reject the initiative that Mrs García has raised, at the beginning of this item on the agenda, to explain profusely and in detail. We are against your initiative, Mrs García, although we share many of the things you say. But I must also warn you that it has little to do with the speech you made in the rostrum with what you have literally presented to us and put to debate. Many times, with the words we want to say things, but the truth is that the words say what they say, and you have finished your speech by telling us that you propose concrete solutions to specific problems, clearly referring to the workers of the Ubik library of the Tabakalara building in San Sebastián, when on your initiative you don't talk about them at all. Then, that is not concrete solutions to specific problems, because you have not quoted them: you ask us to support an initiative where they are not discussed. We, from our group, a few days ago showed support to the workers of the Ubik library, because you only ask for support from the workers, not the workers. We publicly gave our support, because my group's spokesman had already met with them and showed their support in personal meetings, when they transferred the problem they had, but on his initiative there is nothing to help the problem that these workers have in San Sebastian, and that they already explained to us in committee the other day. Look, Mrs García, in the People's Group we defend, we defend clearly, we respect clearly, and we demand that the right to strike of all workers, of all employees, be defended and respected. It is something that is recognized in our Constitution, and profusely, and not very clearly defined in our legislation, and I would like it to be much better regulated, but that is not the debate today. And we defend the individual and collective exercise of the right to strike of workers. However, you propose, in a discriminatory way, that we support the right to strike of all women workers in cultural spaces and infrastructure, when you are leaving half of those workers behind. Yes, I know with what intention you say things, but you say what you say, and here we adopt texts that are contained in the sitting paper, and in those texts you do not see the intention of the words, but you see what the words say, Mrs García, that is the reality. I like irony very much, and I like written irony very much, but I find it very difficult to try to play with the meaning of words with an intention, whatever that intention, when really when it comes to interpreting what is contained in resolutions, or what is contained in contracts, or what is contained in laws, where it is necessary to go is to the literality of words, and the literality of words has nothing to do with what you have told us today in this rostrum. But, in any case, we could not directly support all those who, working in socio-cultural spaces or infrastructures, are exercising their individual right to strike. A right, on the other hand, which is the last ratio the workers have, is the last instrument left to the workers, it is the most unpleasant, and therefore, when a worker decides to go for that, to choose for that possibility, he suffers the immediate consequences of quitting work, which is to stop receiving his wages, to stop receiving the contributions to which the employer is obliged and to stop having all the coverage that the labour law gives him. Something that some workers have not suffered lately – and specifically in this House – when they have exercised their right to strike, and you know perfectly well what I mean, Mrs García. It therefore urges us to support unanimously all those workers of this particular collective who are on strike. I can't do that, because many of those workers in that collective and others, when they exercise their right to strike, they do it for spurious purposes, and they do it to the detriment of others. We would have to judge each case of those collectives, of those companies that are on strike, whose workers are on strike, in order to be able to decide whether or not we support them. Don't ask us for such a generic statement that "let us spare all the workers who are on strike", because I cannot share the intentions and effects that these workers, with the individual exercise of their right that they are exercising, have in third persons, in the rest of the citizens. On the other hand, it asks us to urge the Government to comply – the Basque Government – with Law 3/2016. But he has not spoken to us here at any time about the breach that the Basque Government is making of Law 3/2016. Therefore, I cannot support this case either. In the amendment of EH Bildu we are told by Mrs Kortajarena, since the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid, that we take advantage and support the amendment of the law of inclusion of social clauses. It was my colleague, Mrs Llanos, who explained to them a few minutes ago why we cannot support this text, because we understand that it is non-amendable, that it is infumable, that it is full of errors and that is why we cannot support it. That does not mean that, in general, we cannot discuss at other times texts which, in fact, we believe, can be completed in the debate and in the parliamentary handling of the bills. Finally, Mrs Garcia ended up asking us for a very detailed study on how all these services that are provided have been outsourced. That wouldn't sound bad to me. But why do you ask for that study, Mrs. García? You ask us for that study immediately so that it is the Administration that provides the service directly. And I don't agree with that. Look, I'm going to give you three reasons: The first, because because of the efficiency and efficiency of the Administration, which is how the Administration has to work day by day in providing services, on many occasions indirect delivery, that is, through subcontracting of services to citizens, achieves two things: one, a savings for citizens, and two, above all, an infinite improvement in service. There are services that do not, but there are many services that do. Those are the first two reasons. Effectiveness and efficiency in the work and delivery of public administration services. But I'm going to give him another, which is very important. If the fruit of this study you are asking for right now, The public administration, that patronage, that foundation... –I think it's a foundation, I It seems–; well, the City of San Sebastián, the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council and the Basque Government decided to provide the service directly, all the workers of the Ubik library would go to the street and lose their jobs. And we don't want that. And, since we do not want that, we will also not support the amendment tabled by the groups that support, which bear, the weight of the Basque Government. Because we do not believe that the Basque Government should be urged to try again to solve, even though, of the interventions of the members of the Government, on most occasions, the omnipotence they have and the ability to do everything right and to solve all problems, the reality is not that. And there have already been cases in this very debate in which precisely that attitude of the Government, and that presence or that desire to resolve, is to seek them further and to ensure that they do not succeed. I will give you the clear example that we have on the table, in which I am directly affected, which is the strike of the workers of concerted education, where the role of the Government is serving absolutely nothing. We respect those teachers on strike, but the damage they're doing to citizens is tremendous. And that is precisely why we are not going to support that position of the Government, because, in addition to its generic initiative, we are going to come down to the solution of a specific problem, which you have not spoken about, and what I do not even understand is why the Bureau has admitted to an amendment that has nothing to do with the initiative initially put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u118	Thank you. Mr. Arbulo, let's start at the beginning, which will hurt you less. Because you like to come out here and explain to me what I'm saying or what I want to say, or what it turns out I wanted to say, on my own initiative. To you and to Mr Urrutia, which I am grateful that Mrs Kortajarena and Mrs Romero have not done. But I explain to you, "working people", working people and I hope that you will be included in both terms and that you feel included and that you do not feel bad about it when I say workers. Yes, working people, Mr. Arbulo. Having said all this, which I think is one more of your ways of saying: well, since I have not made an amendment and I have to go out and say something, it turns out that I am going to explain to this lady what she wanted to say, instead of talking about what this lady wants to say and talking about the workers and the things we need to talk about. And you're good at it, or try it at least, and I really appreciate it, but it's not worth it. It's not worth it because we're not talking about working people, you or me. We are talking about people who are on strike with extremely precarious working conditions, and I think there is no point in talking about technical issues that go nowhere. You have also told me that this is a general amendment, which does not speak of the workers of the Ubik library. Well, look, I, who am more than explaining what I write, will tell you that, by approving my initiative, you really support Ubik's workers. And, if you read the beginning well, the first point: support for women workers who are on strike in cultural spaces. White and bottled. And you mean the opposite? Well, say it, great. But I know perfectly well what I said. Mr Urrutia, yours is also serious, because, indeed, it is a lack of respect for the workers talking about the strike, not as a fundamental right, but as the object of confrontation with the Administration. I think that we are talking about a fundamental right, and I think that questioning the right to strike does not help you. But, of course, we're talking about... It's better to talk about the initiative, it's better besides... You have spoken of the compromise proposal, that it has nothing to do with the compromise proposal that I am sending you with the original initiative. And I explain one thing to you: that the compromise proposal brought its contributions and made concrete reference to Ubik's workers, as did the original, because we understand that, by approving that initiative, a precedent is created for it not to exist... or so that in future conflicts there is, as there has been so far, a lack of action and a lack of respect for women workers. Because you were talking about precariousness, and of course we are interested in talking about precariousness, probably not you, because you like nothing to change, that everything remains the same and let's go out here and talk or try to question the right to strike, which I think has been, at least, an unfortunate comment. Because, look, you were talking about a loophole in my intervention. What's the hangover? It's just that we talked... the solution is 60,000 or 90,000 euros, no more, of an institution that has an approved budget for this year of 6 million euros. A rift, you call it whatever you want, but I think it's nothing more than that. We, in the initiative, try to resolve conflicts and to get ahead of working conditions in the future in cultural spaces not only as that of Ubik, but as that of other examples that I have given and that unfortunately are given, and that, in addition, some have been resolved because the workers – Mr Arbulo, the workers – have mobilized and managed to improve their conditions. And you said, Mrs Romero, or I have misunderstood you, because it always happens to me that every time I go out you misunderstand me and surely I speak very quickly, but I will explain it to you: we were talking about the theme park of precariousness, not specifically talking about cultural spaces, but that the conditions, the different types of working conditions, seemed to us to be a theme park of precariousness. That's what we're talking about. And as far as what Mrs Kortajarena has said, we agree with most of the issues that you have raised here about the debate, and, moreover, we have already done so in other speeches. The cultural model that we want, obviously a culture of quality, goes nowhere if the people inside, the workers, do not have quality working conditions, and of course we talk about very prepared people who are charging and are in very precarious conditions. And, given this situation, what we have tried to do is to put a concrete solution, and starting from a specific problem, we have put in place general solutions, because there is more than one specific case, and that includes Ubik workers and other workers in cultural infrastructure and spaces. Absolutely nothing else. And you decide not to support this initiative. Great, but don't come out here and explain to me what I mean. Come out and say what you want to say, because all I'm asking is a solution to something concrete. From here, you'll know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u120	Yeah, thanks again. And I will begin my intervention by reiterating my solidarity with the workers, with the workers of Ubik and of all the cultural spaces in which they are living situations of precariousness, and I address them, because it seems to me that I have all the legitimacy of speaking in feminine speaking to all the people who are working in those cultural spaces. Eta's beating us up. Mrs Romero said that, that solutions had to be sought. Because it is true, in addition to solidarity with such situations, to show our solidarity and support for such processes when these conflicts occur – I believe that this is a different attitude from what Mr Urrutia has shown here – because solutions must be sought. We must look for short-term solutions for the situation that Ubik workers are experiencing, but we must also look for and establish conditions so that these kinds of situations do not recur, and that this model of precariousness that is being installed and that is already installed can be reversed. And so that those mercantilist criteria that are now the dominant – let us say – in public procurement can be reversed by another set of conditions and because we have a model of public procurement that allows those subcontracts, which are given from the public sphere, to be given in conditions of dignity, under conditions in which adequate labour relations are respected, to apply those reference agreements that are established in each case, but also to monitor – let us say – the subject-matter of the contracts that are drawn up for tender and to establish the conditions in those tenders that are adequate and that are adjusted for the purpose of the action that is to be hired. And if we are talking, in this particular case, about avant-garde culture, if we are talking about transformative culture, if we are talking about inclusive culture, because this requires people who have trained, trained and prepared profiles to attend to these kinds of experiences given in those frameworks. And that has to be reflected in these tender documents, but we also have to monitor the conditions of implementation, because these companies... many of the companies that operate in this field of the cultural industry and that operate in this type of bidding that takes place in the framework of these cultural infrastructures, sometimes because they put the hill in some infrastructures, the truth is that they pull prices, establish conditions that are quite difficult to meet and those companies must also be required to comply with what they said. Not us, sir, far away, we have no trouble taking responsibility for the Ubik case or sometimes, and we can talk. And this is where you proposed to do your memory: Well, memory can be done. Memory can be done, and we can see in what condition this came out, after what manner it has been done, even then we can see that after that it has been possible to change those contracts and that it has not been done, and that we are also a part of it, and we are ready to respond to it all. I don't think it's an argument that we're there in time to keep from changing it at all. And what happens is: the reality is, in view of all this, that you have no solution at all. Here, Mr. Zupiria, in his interpelation, mentioned that he would be ready to change the conditions of this contract, if there were agreements, but in the planning of which you have made, no plan can be made to solve this situation. And in our proposition, apart from our solidarity, it was what we wanted to remember, when public oppositions are made, and here it is mentioned that in those policies, which are to be refractants from Europe this morning, these public contracts must be at the strategic expense, and that, as far as they are strategic, they must also perform the conditions of creation when they are made in the sphere of culture. And I'll repeat it again, but it doesn't come any better in character. It's not the right interactions, and it's evidence that's happening right now in Ubike. This strike has left all those who come near Donostia without interaction, without creation and without communication. So we're ready to find solutions, cut and length, the responsibility of each of us, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Romero from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u122	Yes, thank you, Madam President, if you'll allow me from the seat. I already, today, do not interpret or cease to interpret. I think I have heard that he has said a theme park in general, with certain cultural infrastructures, and I know that I know the one we are talking about, like other speakers who have spoken, we do not consider it that way, because we have seen what benefits Tabakalera has and that have been worked on. And you don't want to do anything? I have told you; of course, from the Socialist Group it is not that it has been said, it is that what has been said has been done. What was said was done, because it was intervened by the Deputy of Culture of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council. Moreover, I have said that it can be done, because if you give up, in the new leaflet, to prioritise economic conditions in favour of the dignity of certain working conditions, it can be achieved. Of course this is in the short term and to solve a specific case, Mrs Kortajarena. But for the rest, you have one proposal, we have another. We believe that, with the law on State contracts, it is not only possible to control whether or not these conditions are met, we believe that the criterion for the award is also whether or not these conditions are met. And it seems to us that, along with Basque law, it is a very important step in favour of this dignification of the working conditions of all workers. Not to mention, if we go any further, draw up a new Workers' Statute, which will put an end to the current precariousness imposed after the last labour reform. And I think we'll meet on the way. This can be solved, because it is not us and we who are having a bad time, but the workers of Ubik, and they have a solution. Therefore, the Directorate, together with the Board of Directors, in the preparation of the new brochure, with the cooperation of the business and trade union representation, can put a solution to this, as it has been put in the specifications of the École de Cine Elías Querejeta, which is in the same centre of Tabakalera where the space of Ubik is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u124	Madam of the Parliament. Mr Arbulo, you have spoken of omnipotence on our part. Look, I'm not going in, I'm not going in that way. But I'd say none. And it says that it had nothing to do with the amendment we tabled. Look, the amendment we tabled had nothing to do with Mrs García's amendment, and you do not know how the Bureau agreed to proceed with this amendment. As a reminder, this motion arises from an inquiry which spoke both of the particular case of Ubik de Tabakalera and of a more general aspect, which, without any desire to interpret what Mrs García wanted to do, I believe was stipulated a more general criterion on a precariousization of cultural equipment. And all that also arises, has a history, in the appearance we had, 10 days ago, in the Committee on Labour and Justice, where we speak precisely of the subject of Ubik. I think others or other spokespersons have also talked about Ubik. I don't think we're so dislocated. Man, Mrs. Garcia, look, I don't think I've ever started to interpret what you've said or wanted to say. I have simply told you three things: one, that for us that image that you want to give that in cultural equipment the objective of the Administration is not to offer a good public service, but to throw prices down, etc., etc., does not correspond to the reality or the real consequence of the facts; and the next thing I wanted to say is what our position is, which is a position, man, which I believe was known, right, because I believe that the counselor made it quite clear on the day of the inquiry that you registered about it. And make one thing clear: of course the right to strike is a fundamental right, that is, it really offends me that I doubt that I think the right to strike is a fundamental right. I, look, you do not recognize a single fundamental right, either individual or collective, but I do. No, no, that's for sure! What I'm saying, what I've said and done... I think I've made a tour of how that right of strike is used, blocking collective bargaining, blocking agreements between companies and workers, to confront the Administration, and this is a fact, and you can look at the country. In the compromise proposal, I told you that it was more of the same and that I had actually introduced something of Bildu and something really transformed from what we had proposed in the Ubik issue, and that was why it did not seem acceptable to us. And this that I like precariousness, look, for once and without it being a precedent, I will tell you one personal thing: probably, I have suffered precariousness; I don't know if you have suffered it. Not me, this thing that I like insecure, no. In the same way that you do not recognize one fundamental right more than I do, be assured that insecurity does not make me or pinch me of grace. But, let's go to specific cases. You were talking about the Guggenheim museum and another case I don't remember, and I really don't know. But let's talk about Ubik, because you here have said that "to concrete problems, concrete solutions". I think I remember that, at the appearance, the attendees said that they had been offered a 2 % by leaving the strike, and 18 % later in order to be able to include it in future tenders. Y le recerdo lo que dijo el señor conseero. Dijo: "If they came to any agreement, Tabala would be ready to examine the contract, and, if necessary, to re-establish the service by a new contest, and to maintain these conditions, in proportion as the law permits." That is to say, to concrete problems, concrete solutions. We didn't mention that in the first round? No, I haven't mentioned it in the first round. But did you doubt that our position and what Mr. Zupuria had described before was not one? We have established a way here, and it seems to us that it is the way to make a deal between companies and workers, and from this way we shall hereafter examine what is to be implemented, and so I understand from these words. You said, Mrs García, in your first speech: "Ubik demands solutions and dialogue"; the order is the opposite: dialogue that will bring solutions. And then he also made a comment that he said: "All this has in common that the person responsible for this subcontracting is the Public Administration and, at the same time, the party that rules in all these administrations...".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u125	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u126	Yeah, this is the last one. I fear that their problem is more in the party that administers them than in the administration itself that is a common part of these subcontracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u127	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u128	I have told you from the beginning, Mrs García, that I lack the ability to interpret what you mean and that, therefore, I have simply adhered to what you have told us here today. And what you are telling us here today, and with what we are preparing all the debates, is the text of the initiative. The texts, it comes very well that they are written, if not, would not be texts, logically. It's very good that they're written because they can be rereaded. You don't talk about working people, you talk about working women, and it's not the same. And you will recognize me that you have not mentioned working people at any point in your initiative; it does not appear. You talk about working women, and that's something else. And that has to lead us to interpret what you have meant. Caray!, write the clear things, and so we do not get lost in the interpretations, which is much simpler. Concrete solutions to specific problems. Where do you talk about the workers, the workers or the workers of the Ubik library on your initiative? Nowhere, nowhere. We support those people, of course; we have done so publicly and privately. But it's just that you in your initiative don't talk about them at all. And what's more, if I wanted to talk about them, I would have put it, because then we would all clearly understand what it is that came here to tell us. And if not, we have to go to literality, and you don't talk about them. And I insist and have repeated it before: you to a general problem, which is not concrete, you put a solution, which is that the Administration – please, Mrs. García, do not tell me no; read what you write, what you sign, what you present and what you defend –... that it is the Public Administration that provides that service directly. And that means, immediately, that the staff of the Ubik library and other centers within the building of Tabakalera and of many sociocultural spaces and infrastructures would all go to the street. That is what you are asking in your initiative, in the last paragraph; literally what you have said. If you don't say what it says and you want to say something else, please write what you really want. Because you haven't talked about those workers at any time. And that is precisely why I have told the groups supporting the Government that I do not understand why they have been admitted. If the original initiative does not speak at all of this collective, why should we accept an amendment that speaks of a particular collective, when it is a matter different from the initiative that gave rise to it? And I repeat, I cannot at any time support the insistence of one or another of the groups, or of three of the groups in the House, that it be the Government that has to mediate in this conflict. Look, there's some workers and there's a company. It is true that this company is subcontracted by the Administration, but these workers and that company have mechanisms to resolve and resolve their conflicts, and if not, they will be able to go to court. Asking the government to intervene? And why don't we ask you to intervene with the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council or the San Sebastián City Council? I tell you why I don't want the government to intervene. The largest employer in Euskadi is the Basque Public Administration. The public sector in Euskadi is the company that has the most workers. Mr. lehendakari is responsible for that company, because, in some way or to equate it to private companies, he runs the board... or presides over the board of directors of that company. In this Parliament, we come and listen continuously to the representatives of these workers, who are not at all happy with the personnel management that is being done in this large company, the first company in number of workers in the Basque Country. Who has those criteria, do we ask him to intervene? For what? So he can mess it up more? It would be like taking care of the fox in a henhouse, because he would eat chickens, and that is not the solution, and that is why we are not going to be able to support either his initiative or that of the groups supporting the Government, in the same way that I have explained to Mrs Kortajarena why we cannot support or support or vote or abstain in her amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we shall put it to the vote, first of all, the original text of Mrs. Garcíambe's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u130	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u131	So it wasn't accepted Separation the full correction of the EH group. And finally, we'll vote for the middle-class correction that the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u132	So, since it's equality, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u133	The principle of equality follows, we will leave it to the next assembly. Now I interrupt the whole meeting until four-fifteen. It was two and forty-three in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the evening, and at sixteen o'clock, the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u134	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectors, about the facts against the censorship and freedom of speech which are being committed in the Spanish State. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u135	Yes, good afternoon to all. Mr. Estarrona has been banished after an arbitrary decision. A decision against freedom of expression, and, as is usually the case, impartiality, arbitraryity, double vara de medor, la ley del embudo, state vez por de lasidenta de capera. We had the preface in the morning; we had the preface to this discussion in the morning. I could have planned this statement, but I think it doesn't make any sense when we're talking about freedom of expression and a motive about censorship in the morning, to abstract from what happened in the morning, and not to discuss what happened in the morning. What's the point of testing in a Chamber where there's a motive against freedom of expression and censorship? How can we ask another instance of honoring the freedom of speech and not using censorship when this is done in this Chamber? How are we going to urge a third instance to respect freedom of expression, when in this House it is in question, subject to arbitrary decisions by the President? What's the point? What's the use of this medium we're bringing here today, or this motive? Perhaps some time from now on we must have another motive addressed to Mrs. Tejeria this time. Mrs. Tejeria has decided today to censor a statement that had been here today. He's already done it, we've read the transscript. He's read it already. He's used an app that doesn't get rules, censorship. And that's what happened here. It's serious, it's very serious about the Basque People's opinions. But, well, we're not too much focused on it, though I repeat that we can't abstract from what happened this morning at the time of discussing this motion. We brought in an engagement for a year ago. A year ago, and I'm saying this because somebody's going to say it, you've been there for a year. No, I say: A year! But it doesn't matter, because we're defending freedom of expression, we're talking about censorship, and we're also talking about Spanish state and Spain. So that's the diary, it's today, and if it's a subject that's either daily or active, today, tomorrow and the next day, it'll be a proper discussion. And the censor is not something new, unfortunately, in this country. As you know, in the act that was organized during the early franchise, in culture, in the songs that were organized, in speeches... It was necessary, in advance, to pass through the barracks of the Civil Guard, that the head of that barracks should be shown to him in this act... if it was a song, it had to be shown the songs of songs that would sing, if it was a speech, what would be said in the speech, and what this civil guard could always make up his mind to decide what it was to sing, what it is that one cannot sing, what one can say, what one cannot say, what one cannot say, and what one cannot say. And Joseba, the author of his book, tells an anecdote: and, as was usual, the sergeant-major of the Civil Guard of Durant asked him for the lines of verse that were to be sung, and he had often tried to explain to the sergeant that verses were being improvised, so that they could not be uttered in advance. Eta izugarrizko azalpenak eman ostean guard zibilari, izugarrizko azalpenak eman ostean, eta jada behin uste zutenean guard zibilk ulertu zuela zer zen inprobisazioa, esan zion: "I don't care if they improvise, what I want is the lyrics of the song, with a week in advance, translation and two copies". [[Berber]] That's what the civil guard said. The sergeant, sergeant-major of the Civil Guard of Durango's barracks, wanted to do what the Little Russian did here today-that is to say, what he didn't want to be cut off...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u137	...to cut what he shouldn't have, so he could only say what was best for him. And that's what we got. That's what we got! An antidemocratic state, which has normalized censorship and freedom of expression. This is what there is, and basically it's because 40 years ago things were done as they were done. Franchises slept and democrats rose up; a transition basically led by the powers of the previous regime: those who one day murdered workers in Vitoria the next day became parents of the Constitution. And you know, of those parents, this creature. As one companion, Mrs. Kortajarena, said: of those dusts, this creature; of those dusts, this creature. And that's what we got today. Censorship is not just part of an undemocratic country. It is serving to support an increasingly less democratic regime, and to support, to perfect, that system, there must be laws such as the law of gags, a law adopted only by the votes of the People's Party, which is aimed primarily at suppressing popular movements, controlling the population, which, for social, political or labour reasons, does not share the current state of affairs and, in accepting its right of assembly and demonstration, wants to show its dissent on the street. Laws such as the law of Mozal are necessary, and the system requires the terror of society, the subjection of society to persecution. But when such laws are made, they are not equal to all. Laws of this kind, as I have already observed, answer the law of funnel or goodness: they have a wide passage in some cases, and are very narrow in other cases. And now, for example, if we were to examine many persons who have been punished for the law of mozzal, In the case of the eulogy, we believe that in the year 6800s past, when this Chamber has been tested, it is sufficiently significant that if we made a X-ray of 6800, six hundred and eight hundred people here today, we should see that all these people have something in common, and probably all of them are to-day quo-to-day. Those who have been up there today have no law apply. To those who have been up there today, who have done [it,] no one will take [it] against them. Not even Mrs. Tejeria will take it, as she has taken it in other cases. There's a lot of quiet around here. You'd see what threats he's taking in this morning if you came in. There's no Aranha operation, no law, no measure... No measure at all. And when we brought this interpelation, that was... And, as I have said before, Mr. Estarrona, who has been expelled, brought it. And when he brought them back, he spoke of several long lists of those who were arbitrarily punished. He spoke of the paper as he did so. The evangelical saying that "represible" can't be used; whether they are political prisoners or not, so far as this is connected with the subjectiveity of each. We've known Piper to ban a team song: Ovni, objecto verde nada inteligente We've met the light. And that is, as I have said before, a Common-wealth, where the Expedition of Censor, and Liberty of expression, hath been normalized, and hath been prescribed, and hath only been punished by certain particular sectors of it. And they all say we're against the Mozzal law, we're all against the censorship, we're all on the side of protecting freedom of expression. So today we brought a medium signed together with the Podemos, and, as is customary in such cases, I would like to thank Mrs. García for the will shown to her. Our middle-class one has two points. And in the first place, a statement is made against the censorship, favorable to freedom of expression, and is required, or required, in the Spanish Government, to make changes of penal code, to reduce censorship and to ensure freedom of expression. In like manner, the next Spanish Government demands that in the last nine or nine months Mr Sánchez has not had time to abolish the law as such next day. And then, at the second point, I repeat: this is already a written and agreed request in this Chamber, while the mozzal law continues to continue in force, the request is given to those police forces which depend on the Eucomune or the Basque Jaurist, please not to apply that law. If, then, we all stand for this, we think that we should go on with this medium without any other difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u138	Thank you, Urruzuno. In this parliament, what is worth is freedom of expression, and what is in it. And that's the sign of your interference: if it is always done with respect and regularity, there is no difficulty. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u139	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental rights recognized to every human being in virtually all democratic countries because it is a nuclear element for the full development of personality and for the existence of a plural and free coexistence. This right must be recognized, on equal terms, for all persons forming a society; thus, freedom of expression occupies an eminent place in the constitutional texts of all countries in our environment and also in the international covenants and declarations that enshrine human rights. Among others, this is reflected in article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Restrictions on the borders of freedom of expression must be very measured and justified, with proportionate sanctions and without at any time restricting public debate and the free political participation of citizens. Thus, the Spanish Constitution establishes limits on the right to honour, privacy, self-image and the protection of young people and children in article 10.2. This is done in the interests of the protection of national security, health or the prevention of crimes, among others. Article 20 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states that any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law. Constitutional jurisprudence also indicates in the Spanish State that, in the event of conflict, freedom of expression must prevail, if it is not exercised with the intention of insulting or injuring, if it is expressed in response to a true fact of public interest or, in particular, if it is exercised from a means of communication. Despite this, in recent years we have been witnessing an authoritarian drift that has led to an alarming restriction of the fundamental right to freedom of expression, enshrined in article 20 of the Spanish Constitution, which goes beyond these limits. Every day more and more cases are added to the list of violations of the right to freedom of expression; for example, that of Josep Miquel Arenas, better known as Valtònyc, who has had to leave exile for sentences related to freedom of expression. He was sentenced by the Supreme Court to three and a half years in prison, for the crimes of exalting terrorism and humiliating the victims, insulting the king and threatening Jorge Campos, Vox's spokesman in Baleares. All that, for the content of the lyrics of his songs, and before he went to prison, the Mallorcan rapper decided to leave for Belgium. Its defence ensures that its rights can be guaranteed in Europe, and this has been demonstrated: the Belgian Justice decided this September not to extradite it, considering that its case falls within the scope of freedom of expression. Also the rapper Pablo Rivadulla, better known as Pablo Hasel, was sentenced by the National High Court to two years and a day in prison, for the crimes of heightening terrorism and insulting the Crown and State institutions, for messages on Twitter and a song hung on YouTube; a fine of 24,300 euros was added to the prison sentence. The group of rappers La Insurgenta were summoned to testify at the National Court, before the judge Carmen Lamela, in November 2016, accused of the rise of terrorist organizations such as GRAPO. In December 2017, they were sentenced to two years and one day for this crime. Due to this extra day of conviction the entry into prison of its 12 members is mandatory, despite having no record. Two puppeteers were arrested and sent to prison without bail in early February 2016, after representing the work "La Bruja y Don Cristóbal" during the Madrid Carnival. They were accused – as you all know – of the rise of terrorism and incitement to hatred, for showing a small banner in their work that said "Alka-ETA-gora", a play of words with "Al Qaeda-gora". Casandra Vera was denounced, in 2016, by tweets joking about Carrero Blanco's death. The complaint was filed by the Civil Guard when the girl turned 18, after finding the tweets in a raid of Operation Spider, designed to pursue the rise of terrorism on social networks. The singer of Def Con Dos, César Augusto Montaña Lehmann, was sentenced, in 2017, to one year in prison and six and a half years of absolute disqualification, for the exaltation of terrorism and humiliation to the victims of ETA and GRAPO. The same police operation that arrested Casandra and César Strawberry also acted against 74 more tweeters, for raising terrorism on social networks between 2014 and 2016. Some of the detainees were minors and even two 14-year-olds were charged. Amnesty International cited this operation as one of the cases of unjustified restrictions on freedom of information, expression and assembly in its 2016 and 2017 annual report. The directors of the satirical magazine El Thursday The singer of La Polla Records, Evaristo Páramos, was identified and denounced by the Civil Guard, after a concert in May 2018 in Jerez de la Frontera. The officers denounced him for insulting the police at the end of the performance. The insults denounced were part of the letter of a jota that the singer often interprets to chapel at the end of his concerts. In accordance with the law, disrespect and consideration for security forces and bodies is considered to be minor offences, and are punishable by fines ranging from 100 to 600 euros. Evaristo has been on stage for more than 30 years, without having experienced any similar incident. ARCO's works on Catalan political prisoners were censored. The Madrid exhibition institution – a public body hosting the art exhibition – demanded the withdrawal of an exhibition on political prisoners in contemporary Spain, from Santiago Sierra, in February 2018. The book Fariña The young Daniel Serrano, 24, was sentenced in February 2018 to pay a fine of 480 euros, as the author of a crime against religious sentiments for publishing on Instagram a photomontage, with his own face, of the bitter Christ, popular of the Holy Week of Jaén. Willy Toledo was charged with an alleged crime of offending religious sentiments, following a complaint by the Christian Lawyers Association. The motive was a post published in 2017, where it charged against God and the Virgin of the Pillar. Three women will be tried this year for participating in a performance The case was filed by a judge in 2016, but reopened a year later, by an appeal from the association. Almost two years after the events and one year after the administrative sanction was confirmed, on Tuesday, April 2, the trial was held against Hala Bedi journalist Mikel Sáenz of Buruaga, to whom the Ertzaintza and the Basque Government applied the law of citizen security for recording a police intervention in the Errekaleor neighborhood, here in Gasteiz, in May 2017. This is the first journalist to be sanctioned under the Mordaza Act by the Basque Government. And, recently, the record label The Dromedario Records – as Mr Urruzuno has said – the song Ovni And all these situations occur mainly by two means: the administrative path, through the Organic Law 4/2015, of 30 March, on the Protection of Citizens' Security – the so-called law gags – as a silent and discreet way of deterring the exercise of the fundamental right to demonstration. This is sought through administrative fines, which, as reflected in reports by human rights organizations, have had a demobilizing effect on citizenship. People, even if they want to go out on the street to protest, no longer mobilize so much, for fear of imposing fines under that law. And the second way that gags and represses freedom of expression is the criminal channel. Through the application in certain articles of the Criminal Code, behaviors are criminalized, such as sending messages through social networks, singing certain rap songs, using the image of a Christ and publishing it on social networks, manifesting themselves through a performance In some cases, totally obsolete criminal types have been used, not in accordance with the Spanish Constitution and unsuitable for a developed democracy. And, on other occasions, an undefined criminal type has been applied, such as that of the rise of terrorism, as well as the introduction of open and indeterminate concepts around so-called hate crimes. The identifications made by the authority concerning persons participating in popular assemblies of a political or trade union nature or acts organized by civil society, whose aim was, on the one hand, to deter the participation of citizens in the political and social activity of our country, and, on the other, to establish control over the activists participating in the very various mobilizations that have accompanied the life of our country in recent years, are well known. Likewise, certain actions carried out by various public authorities are known, in order to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u140	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u141	... restrict freedom of expression – I conclude already –, actions that we can enumerate in different scenarios. All this list of governmental actions has had a clear impact on the restriction of fundamental rights, such as the right to ideological and thought freedom, the right to assembly, the right to political participation and the right to freedom of expression. All of these are fundamental rights recognized by the Spanish Constitution by the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have therefore signed a compromise amendment with the EH Bildu group, because we believe that it is a matter of defending and protecting a fundamental right, which is clearly constantly violated, also in the Basque Country. It is not a question of promising, but of repealing the law, and it is also a question of fulfilling what you agreed three years ago in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u143	Gracias, president. Well, my group is coming to this debate to ratify the unequivocal, nuanced and unnamed commitment to freedom of expression as one of the foundations of our democracy. That is what we had reflected, directly, in the amendment we tabled with the Basque Nationalist Party; without nuances and without surnames, I repeat. Because, in the succinct text put to us by the proposer of the motion, they did have surnames: the nickname "Spanish", which we believe is the only thing that explains why an initiative whose meaning I think no one understood very well has been taken out of the bottom of the closet. Not because it is not necessary to defend freedom of expression, which always is, and more in these times when so many winds are blowing that question the foundations on which the democracy we enjoy is based. Winds against the freedom of women, winds against the memory of those who suffered repression and also winds against the right of everyone to say what he wants and to do it in freedom, something that has cost us a lot, especially here in Euskadi, that can reach us all. It has cost us some even personal freedom, and it has cost us even to bury many comrades for defending it. And I'm talking about freedom of expression. But we are, here, in April 2019, debating something that Bildu was left forgotten in a drawer there by March 2018. So we had to review where this motion came from, what its origin was, what was the content of what the proposer put forward, and what the Culture Advisor answered; because, in theory, it comes from there. And we have seen how the meaning of the interpellations and motions in this Parliament has been perverted; today we have seen another show by Mr Urruzuno. Because Bildu complained, then, of a supposed advertising censorship in ETB, which was absolutely dismantled, because it was found that the decision taken by the entity met the advertising criteria approved by the Board of Directors, whose members we unanimously elected, without anyone wanting to change them. And they did not want to change, because, in fact, ideological advertising is not contemplated, except for the epochs of electoral propaganda, in which we are opened to all parties the spaces for us to disseminate our proposals. And because there are precedents of limitations made to other bodies, not necessarily political ones, for seeking to disseminate such issues in advertising. Mr. Urruzuno had an anecdote from Mr. Sarrionandia about the Civil Guard headquarters in Durango. Mr. Sarrionandia said he couldn't pass on the songs, because he improvised. Those who have not improvised have been you here this morning, by the mouth of Mr. Arzuaga. Because what we have seen here has not been exactly an improvisation; it has been an electoral act of Bildu in every rule. So let's not talk about improvisations. So as any attempt at censorship was dismantled at that time – I speak of that Committee on Culture – Bildu took advantage of the trip to make a motion, which had nothing to do with what he was asking for, and left it in one: "Parliament rejects the censorship and the attacks on freedom of expression that are being applied by the Spanish Government and other bodies." And here one, then, doubts arise. What instances? What instance do you mean? And what Spanish government? The one who was a year ago, when the motion was registered? The one now? What's the censure? Do you think Bildu is the same with a PP government as with a PSOE government? Or simply the fact that the government is Spanish is what introduces the perverse character of the government? Because I can give you a lot of reasons to talk about clearly Basque censorship, of which ETA practiced. And no, and it's not that far behind, unfortunately. If Bildu is worth any argument to bring to the present situations of the past, such as this motion we are talking about today, it will allow us to keep very much in mind the very recent past, because today there are those who continue to mourn those who murdered for working in the media and being murdered, who are very present to have been persecuted for having done something as simple as informing and expressing their opinion. And that was also an attack on freedom of expression. And don't think I'm getting off the subject of the debate. Not at all. It was Mr. Estarrona who, in the interpretation that gave rise to this motion, spoke of cases of limits to the freedom of expression of musical groups. It happened to him, I suppose not by forget, the debate that arose with singer Imanol. This year, it has been 30 years since the whole culture of this country, Basque, Catalan and Spanish, was mobilized to reclaim Imanol's freedom to express its rejection of terror, in a concert that overflowed the Anoeta Velodrome. And that was also freedom of expression! But if today's proponent wants us to talk about other things, let's talk about it. And I say to him the socialist position, which is very clear: we recognize the rights to freely express and disseminate thoughts, ideas and opinions through word, writing or any other means of production; to literary, artistic, scientific and technical production and creation; to freedom of chair; to freely communicate or receive truthful information through any means of dissemination. We also argue that the exercise of these rights cannot be restricted by any previous censorship. We defend the guarantee of access to the media, significant social and political groups, respecting the pluralism of society and the various languages of the country. We argue that the only limit is respect for fundamental rights, including that of life, the right to honour, privacy, self-image and the protection of young people and children. And this implies that freedom of expression cannot be used as an excuse to denigrate and humiliate, among others, the victims of terrorism, nor to exalt a single cause that justifies the annihilation of the one who thinks differently. We argue that only the abduction of publications, recordings and other media can be agreed upon by means of a judicial decision. We defend that legislation is the guarantor of these freedoms and therefore reject the gag clause introduced by the imposition of an absolute majority four years ago, and that it seeks to criminalize those who think differently than those who rule. That's what we stand for. Unnamed, in Euskadi, in the rest of Spain and in the world. Because democracy is not understood without freedom and freedom is not understood, if previously plurality has not been assumed, that there are those who think differently, that there have been them before, now and after. And that plurality is one of our great riches. It's been very hard for us to preserve it. And it will not be for the Socialists by whom it is precisely going to be settled. So it serves this debate, brought in that way by the proposer, so that this Parliament can be ratified in an unequivocal commitment to freedom of expression, as a reflection of a diverse society, which still needs many people to assume that there are those who do not think like them. If that's what we got, welcome. If anyone wants to promote a debate of freedom of expression to look out and not look in their own home, that's why they don't count on us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. FRAMEUR-ESECDERIO ISUSI The Basque parliament confirms its engagement in favor of the liberty of expression which is one of the guarantees of democracy; for we have been fighting for freedom for 124 years, at times when they have been more difficult than the present. I will allow the President to make a slight parenthesis of one minute before returning to the subject, to emphasize that I believe that today our President has given us a lesson in the full use of freedom of expression and the full use of democracy. In the morning, the House's Rules of Procedure have been applied objectively, and in the afternoon he has been listening stoically and with a smile on his lips to Mr Urruzuno's anger. I doubt that in many parliaments, and at such a short distance, any president would have endured what our president has endured today, and I thank him because it has been the best way to prove that this Parliament is alive and is a free and democratic parliament, in which anyone can say what they want to say, as Mr Urruzuno has shown this afternoon, with the venia and with the permission of our president. We're still... The representatives of Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu have cited cases in which we too agree, we have not in vain signed with you the first point of today's motion, but I also wanted you to see that the Basque Nationalists have also been fighting for freedom of expression for over a century, citing another case. This historical case, because in the question that gives rise to today's motion, a year ago – and I say a year ago, Mr Urruzuno, without a pejorative tone, simply by setting a date–,... In that inquiry he wondered what it was... what the Basque Government was thinking, as he said, questioning the thinking of the Basque Government on the issue of freedom of expression. And I'm going to tell you a very brief, historical thing that happened in the spring of 1902. In the last week of May 1902, the United States of America granted freedom, independence, to the island of Cuba. And Sabino Arana, in Bilbao, came up with the good idea of sending a telegram to President Roosevelt to congratulate him, and of course, "between cabbage and lettuce", to tell him also about Europe and Euskadi. The text of the telegram was as follows: "On behalf of the Basque Nationalist Party, I congratulate Cuba's independence to the country you preside over, an example of a cult of justice and freedom – other times as well – that give your states, made unknown in history and inimitable to the European powers, particularly Latin. If Europe imitated him, also the Basque nation, its oldest people, and which more centuries enjoyed freedom, would be free." This telegram obviously did not arrive at the White House, because the censorship of those times, of the year 1902, cut it off, and Sabino Arana entered Larrinaga prison two days later, and his only job was to attempt to send a telegram of congratulations to President Roosevelt. In all times beans are cooked and, obviously, the PNV has been fighting for 124 years and suffering from the absence of freedom of expression. In the interpellation that gave rise to this motion, he wondered, above all, about issues of art, and he has also spoken today about issues of music, composers, books... We usually refer to art when we talk about freedom of expression. And I think the best way to know our opinion, the opinion also of the Basque Government, is to take up a brief summary of the statements made by the Sailburu He was saying something like, "We believe that the adult citizen who goes to a fair, to an exhibition, to see a play, a puppet play or a street play, or who buys a book, shows a clear interest in all these decisions, to do a cultural exercise, and to accept or criticize what is seen is his decision. "We think that this citizen has a sufficient and trained criterion of his own to understand reality, and to analyze, enjoy, reject, accept or give as unacceptable the cultural or artistic representation of that reality. This adult citizen does not need anyone to reject a work of art or a book on his behalf, to see how a play is prohibited, or to see how a prison sentence is imposed on another. "I believe that, unfortunately," said the Sailburu Zupiria, "the chain of censorship is long in our country, and as worrying as these events are many of the restrictions that occur around freedom of expression, as a result of the tightening of the anti-terrorist law, ever more restrictive changes in the Criminal Code or decisions made around the so-called law bites. "It seems a lie, but at the moment in Spain there are more people condemned for advocating terrorism than when there was still violence. We do not live in the best time, of course, and, instead of moving forward, we are going backwards, and that is worrying." Finally, he said: "I believe that our Government has a clear position on this issue; we believe that we should not underestimate the intelligence of citizens, and we believe that it is the citizens who must decide and think about what attitude they should take to a work of art, not the authorities or the presidents." According to all this, we have withdrawn our amendment to the whole, Socialists and Nationalists, and we will support the first point of the motion signed by Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria and, of course, we will not agree on the second. The second one says something like, "Also, the Basque Parliament renews its commitment not to apply this law, as decided by the political majority of this Parliament." We think that, before a law like the law bites, there are three possibilities: the first, try to repeal it; the second, try to change it, and the third, accept it. What we believe cannot be done is that a parliament, on a law passed in a democratic country, in democratic courts, with a sufficient majority, can say: well, now I do not comply with it. I think it's in our hands to fulfill it and, if not, repeal it or try to change it. But, I don't think it's the normal thing, from a legal point of view, that we vote that we're not going to comply with a law that's passed. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, as you have already said, this motion is presented to you a year later... you present it a year later than the interpellation you made to the Councillor of Culture, and, in the motion, the truth is that you rejected the censorship of the Government of Spain. I wondered how you were going to change it here today, because, of course, the current government is different from the one at the time of the motion and the one at the moment is a government that has been government thanks to you, among others. You supported him and it's more, you supported him just yesterday to get the decrees out. And then, I wondered what they were going to put, if they were going to put that against whom the motion was going was against the People's Party. Because what do you present it for now? Well, for the same thing that they've done the performance. Given the time that has passed, for I have had to read the inquiry made by Mr Estarrona, who was doing to the Councillor of Culture, and the truth is that when I read it I could not stop feeling anything other than stupefaction. Not only because of what he was saying, but also because of what the councillor was saying, but like that I would say for another chapter, for I will only say what you were saying. Because I used a language and made a series of reflections that can only be understood in that parallel and petty world in which you still live, from EH Bildu. Mrs Goirizelaia accused me, on one occasion, that I lived in a bubble, but it is you who continue to live in a bubble. In a small bubble, as they've shown this morning. You, who still do not take the step of condemning terrorism, who continue to refuse to recognize the dictatorship to which ETA subjected us, continue to refuse to acknowledge that the murders, the kidnappings... How will you condemn him, if you consider them righteous? They still use that lying language they like so much; they keep talking about political prisoners. Well, as I told Mrs Goirizelaia, there are no political prisoners here: neither Basque political prisoners nor Catalan political prisoners. There are prisoners who violate the law. And, in the case of those you call Basque political prisoners, they're terrorists. Where there are political prisoners, even if you do not want to recognize it, it is in Venezuela; in Spain, no. And they're here not because they belong to an armed organization, as Mr. Estarrona said; no, because they belong to a terrorist gang. Things by their name! Because you continue to use that trap language, and also in that interpellation you said that with Arnaldo Otegi there had been a political censorship to be a candidate. No way! That it was not a political censure, that it was a judicial decision that disqualified him from being a candidate. Of course, what happens is that you to enforce the law, of course. And the sentences, when they like it well and, when they don't like it, no. And the so-called man of peace of the socialists, for as I say to you, was forbidden to be a candidate for a judicial decision. And also stupefaction over another matter. Because we are talking in this Parliament about censorship and freedom of expression, and we are doing so on the initiative of a group like EH Bildu. Well, some questions need to be refreshed as to how freedom of expression has been supported in this country: 28 June 1978. ETA Kills Chief Director of La Hoja del Lunes La Gaceta del Norte May 1993. Pasquins are distributed, in which journalists of Euskal Telebista David Barbero, Juan Luis Bikuna and José María Calleja are accused of murderers, and they are threatened with being expelled from the Basque Country. 12 September 1995. The SER station in San Sebastián is occupied by 50 Jarrai militants, who force the reading of a statement and place a banner on the balcony of the station that says "cane the dogs of the pen and the microphone". 7 May 2000. An ETA gunman killed journalist José Luis López de la Calle for four shots in the vicinity of his home in Andoain, Gipuzkoa. López de la Calle was a contributor to the daily El Mundo 15 May 2001. Journalist Gorka Landaburu suffers the amputation of his thumb with one hand and several injuries to his face from the explosion at his home in Zarautz, from a bomb pack. 10 days later, 24 May 2001. A seven-shot murder to the financial director of El Diario Vasco Mr Urruzuno, you have to have a quilt, a quilt, to come up to this rostrum in this Parliament and to claim freedom of expression, having the backpack on your back. A backpack that you didn't just take off, because you don't want to take it off, because you still think that was fair. You have justified, jailed the murder and persecution of journalists; you have applauded each of the attacks and the dozens of threats against media professionals, and you speak of threats in this rostrum, of threats in this rostrum, you who for years have dedicated yourselves to pointing your finger at the professionals who from the media had the courage to fight them with the word, with the opinion, only with that, with the exercise of their freedom of expression, of their freedom of the press. That you have persecuted them for that to the door of your homes, that you have harassed your families, but what freedoms of expression are you talking about? What is the freedom of expression that you defend? Yours, let it be said what you want, because, if not, letters bomb or painted against journalists; that is your freedom of expression. And you talk about freedom and democracy. That no, that you have shown here today, that freedom, the word "freedom" to you comes very great, very great, because you still do not condemn the fact that the fundamental rights of this country have been trampled on. Not freedom of expression, all, all fundamental rights: the right to life, the right to think as everyone wants, to express themselves freely, to live in freedom. You've trampled them, and you still don't condemn them for trampling. Moreover, they continue to leap, they continue to receive as heroes, as worthy of homage, those whose only merit has been murder, extortion, kidnapping, belonging to a terrorist gang, to a terrorist gang – Mr. Estarrona is not here, but you are telling them – not an armed organization. And that is the heightening of terrorism, and that is why we are not in favour of article 578 of the Criminal Code disappearing. We do not want that article to be repealed, because we believe that a terrorist gang cannot be raised. You speak of democracy, when your political project, the one you represent, admits no freedom of expression, because it is doctrine of unique thought, and the discrepancy was punished with two shots to the back of the head, with lap bombs, with letters bombs or with public warning. But it is more, nowadays, if a student, in exercise of his freedom of expression, says in the University that he feels Basque and Spanish, he is beaten; he is beaten! And whoever places a Spanish flag on a balcony, in a gang, will be pointed out and insulted. What's the matter, those don't have the right to freedom of expression, Mr. Urruzuno? As I say to you, there is a long way to go to come here to talk about freedom; for, to talk about freedom, the first thing to do is to respect the law. And to you the law brings them to the pair, to the pair!, with the condescension of others, must also be said, but well... You have placed the yellow bonds, and it goes that in order to remove them it has not been necessary to do, there has been no need to do and to insist; but, as I told you, it is necessary to comply with the law, and when, according to the law, Mr. Torra fails to comply with the Central Electoral Board's order to remove the yellow bonds, he knows that he is in breach of the law and that failure has legal consequences, as you have done on purpose. As, in his case, it has been the admission by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia of the complaint of the Office of the Prosecutor for disobedience. Because it is not exercise of freedom of expression, but not, that that is a challenge to the rule of law and demonstrate it, putting a tweet that is being violated by the law. That's what Mr. Torra did, and I imagine you'll also be wearing your tweet with your yellow ties. You continue with a false language, with a double standard language, which, in addition, you have very fine skin, because in Catalonia those who are called Spaniards point them out, cover with their photographs the facades, mark their homes with a target, want the death via Twitter of those who are not independentist like Mr Millo, and here I have already given you examples. Because you, as I tell you, have a double standard. And talking about double standards, because in Podemos they are also teachers, because they also know a lot. They have very fine skin when they make you an offense, but you applaud the offenses you make to others. You present a proposal for a law, which is what you bring here today, amending the Criminal Code, in relation to the modification of the offences relating to freedom of expression, and in addition, in the explanatory statement of the proposal, you made an apocalyptic definition of how freedom of expression was defended in Spain. Because what they are trying to show is that in Spain there is no respect for freedoms, which is a democracy, right?, of a low level and that, therefore, as there is no respect for freedoms, neither is freedom of expression. But, look, it is the courts that define what is criminal and what is not, and Spain is one of the countries that best complies with the Rome Convention. In 2017, for example, there were 641 claims. But do you know how many convictions there were? None. None. Because in Spain freedom of expression is enshrined in the Constitution; it is regulated by law and guaranteed by the courts. Just like in Iran, right? Gentlemen of Podemos. Just like in Venezuela... Likewise, freedom of expression is regulated in Spain. Look, here it looks like, if you don't make a proclamation of respect for freedom of expression, you don't respect it. I respect freedom of expression. I respect her deeply; I haven't respected her for 24 years, because I'm a little younger, but I think I've respected her since I was 18 or 20. And precisely I joined the People's Party because I wanted everyone to have the right to exercise their freedom of expression. That anyone who felt Basque and Spanish could say it perfectly, without the need for anyone to point out to him, nor anyone to persecute him, nor anyone to shoot him in the back of the neck for that. Because, look, freedom of expression is neither contempt nor insult against individuals or groups, which is what has been done here this morning, not to exercise freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is not a free bar to threaten, to humiliate, to incite hatred, as Spanish, Basque and European jurisprudence says. That may be a crime, and who defines whether or not it is at the end are the courts; they are their rulings. Because in democracy the key is respect, respect for others and respect for the law and judicial decisions, but always – always, gentlemen of Podemos – not one day yes and another no, depending on who the offender is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u147	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing to responses turn, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u148	I will make a difference between Miss Llanos and Mr. Pastor, though they both have hit the same furrow, because I believe they do not do it sincerely for the same purpose. I should only say to Miss Llanos: and if you wish to make a monographicographic near it, we have no difficulty in making it. Bring them over and we'll talk about them. But I'd like to say yes to Mr. Pastor. I say truly, I have no intention of making matches with this matter, and all this was done: Mr. Pastor says that we bring in some of our enterprises, and then we're done talking about what we want, but even if you say so, you'll end up talking about it and stop talking about it. He concludes talking about us, and then throws out certain expressions that are said by us, and all that. Badakizu zer geratetzen den? Eta hori da arazoa, éta hori da azierazpen-askatasunarekin ere izugarrizko lotura dankan kontu bat: Barbara Balzerini Brigate Rosse-ko militante ohi bat da, éta berak esaten du arazoa, that is that the problem of the issue lies in the difference between those who today have the power to remember what happened and what did not, and those who do not. And here too something of the kind is happening, here too something of the kind is happening. And I repeat: You can go here, you can say anything about anything, but another person can't do that in the Basque Country. He couldn't do that, and that's what we're talking about. And I repeat, it is not to avoid discussion, nor even to search for polemics. Hemos enterado gente... We all know what happened, and unfortunately you weren't the only ones you've discovered. You weren't the only ones, but that too is a question in this country. who can say that and who can't. That's the problem. And if there ever is a just relatation here, freedom of expression must also have its place, otherwise there will be no real relatation. And the difference is there, and I put this example on another level, and gave it the example of those who were up there in the first morning, and made this example of the TL of my fellow Arzuga. That's what's happening. There's two ways of measuring terrible things here. They were talking about limitations. The limits may be appropriate or not, they may be located in the right place. But if they were the same for all of us, at least half the same. Espainiako hainbat football-zelaietan asbestos by Actor Zabaleta, hey! Can anyone imagine if in San Mamés, in Ipurua, in Anoeta, in El Sadar, the same thing will be chanted with another name, which I will not put? That's what's happening here. Then the boundaries will be the same for everyone. And I'd like to take these last few seconds to answer Mr. Ramirez. Paper. Paper. What has changed since 2016, since you defended in committee the second point you say today that you cannot vote for it? What's changed? The 6,800 performances of the Ertzaintza? Is that it? Do you need more green light to the Ertzaintza to continue applying the law gags journalists from Argia And a negative vote on the second point, so that's what it's going to happen. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u149	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. García, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u150	Thank you. For I did not intend to go out, but of course: Francoists, terrorists, ETA, Bolivarian dictatorship, Venezuela; that is all said, we have already used all the terms that help to make any debate a take and take and that the aim of the initiative is reversed. And I understand, that we are in pre-campaign; but, now, if we put aside the function of the four, and focus on the proposal... Before that, it's true, I'll start, Mrs. Llanos. Really, I think you've come out here and come out criticizing everyone, you had to criticise something, and of course: Venezuela, Iran, Iran, Venezuela... And I'll tell you that no problem, because this morning my partner has been talking about Venezuela, and Iran, maybe, you can tell me something about your Vox partners in Andalusia, and you can enlighten me... I believe that we have been the only ones who have lived up to the debate, and you have lived up to the mud, the mud, the mud. Well, that's where the mud stays, because I think freedom of expression is important enough. And of course we haven't focused on the state, plus I don't think I've understood you, or I don't think you've understood me. Of course we have not focused on the Spanish state. It is that there is sometimes a lack of freedom of expression and I have cited some cases that happen here in Euskadi, which is not the responsibility of the Spanish Government alone. It's just that I don't care about freedom of expression whether it favors me or not, what I like or don't like, what matches my ideology or not. No, I don't. It's just that it's a right. It's just that what I like is that people who say things that I don't like or that seem barbaric to me have the right to say them. And that, that's exactly what we're talking about today. Absolutely nothing else. And Mr. Pastor and Mr. Ramírez-Escudero... For the truth, I regret that you are not going to vote in favour of the second point, because it is true that, three years ago, in this House, an agreement is reached, and what is not clear to me is whether we now agree on point one, as you have said, that you are in favour of voting on it, if we are not going to take it into account in two, three years' time. I understand that the agreements that are made are to comply with them, and there is a series of evidence about the fines and sanctions that have to do with the law that is applied in Euskadi, when textually it was said, in the agreement taken on June 22, 2016, that a commitment is made that it will not be implemented. We can understand Parliament's times, but if an agreement is reached, it is fulfilled, and it will have to be ratified three years later. It's a matter, I understand, of coherence. We, in short, have it very clear. We understand that perhaps it is not the most appropriate day, because you have come today to win votes, but we understand, and when it comes to defending a right such as freedom of expression, you cannot play at all, you cannot fall into those terms and what needs to be done is to get serious, reach agreements and understand that freedom of expression is a thing that belongs to us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u152	It was not my intention not even to use the second round; but, finally, sincerely, Mr Urruzuno, you leave me no choice. Finally, I did not tell you any lies, when I told you that not long ago there were people here who were being violated by their right to freedom of expression; I felt constrained in this country to say what I wanted, because I was afraid that he would be threatened, persecuted, kidnapped or even murdered, as happened with many of our comrades. And it is also true that this proposition that you have brought here, no one knew very well what was the reason for the presentation, because it did not bring a recognizable cause regarding what was used as the reason for it. It's been used later, you don't know what it's for. I do not even know whether what Mr Estarrona said corresponds to what you have finally said in the rostrum or have said something else. I have serious doubts. But, finally, here are many people, many of my companions, who cannot remember those things, because they are no longer among us and I have never heard you say that that was unfair and never had to happen. We have indeed said that the LAG was unfair; you, regarding what ETA did, are still to take that step. And it's very sad to have to recognize him now, very sad to have to recognize him. And I think you know it perfectly well. I have an image on the retina of when our colleague Isaiah Carrasco was killed, and the then president of the Bilbao Athletic Club, Mr. Macua, offered to keep a minute of silence for Mr. Carrasco. It lasted exactly six seconds the silence, the time necessary for all your people, the one you control in that world, to devote themselves to booing and applauding, so that one could not even keep a minute of silence for a murdered councilman of the Socialist Party. That was the freedom of expression that existed until recently on this earth. So, finally, very little lessons from him. And, well, I simply if I had known, I would have gone out simply to say that I am very sorry, but Mrs García knows that we have been about to reach an agreement, that we had made a compromise amendment with you, which reflected our amendment and virtually the integrity of yours. But you have preferred to make a deal with Bildu. You have preferred to agree with Bildu, because I have told you from the outset that I could not share a point two which calls for this Parliament to approve the failure to comply with the law. I couldn't accept it. I don't see the security adviser telling the ertzainas not to comply with court rulings. Neither I nor anyone. But, well, you – I don't criticise it – have preferred to deal with Bildu. He'd rather do that portrait. It's your decision. I do not criticise it, but, in the end, perhaps there is something, in the end, of subsidiary action on Bildu in this Parliament, on your part. Start looking at him a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u153	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. FRAMEUR-ESECDERIO ISUSI And instead of ending up talking about the main reason for the debate, which was a certain lack of freedom of expression and the measures to be taken to resolve it, we ended up taking the past out. And in this Parliament and in this country, it is very difficult to talk about the past without anger, and it is very difficult for the past not to cloud the present and leave us a kind of fog in the future. What I wanted to say was that it seems to me that the first point of the motion that we adopted today is a very interesting point, talking about the present and talking about the future, without lying about the past, which seems to be what changes everything in this Parliament, and I think it is also true – and it must be acknowledged – that during the last years of the PP government in Madrid there was a clear lack of freedom of expression, compared to other times. I would like to say to you, Mrs Llanos: imagine that this agreement today, instead of presenting it to Bildu, introduces it Podemos and that you do not have all that ability to take out the past that you have taken out. I believe that what needs to be done is to think about what we are going to approve and look less at who has presented it, because, if we look at who has presented it, we may say: for, as Bildu puts it, you never vote anything, although lately, of course, you are being very good fellows of them. But what I want to tell you is that we stop thinking about who is the author of the proposal, because then we will end up like today, throwing away the mess and thinking about what the proposal is. I will read it to you, in case you are still in time to change your vote, because it seems to be an interesting proposal, apart from who made it: "The Basque Parliament defends and protects fundamental rights and rejects any kind of censorship, attack or action against the right to freedom of expression, which is carried out by any public institution. The Basque Parliament therefore urges the Spanish Government to amend the Penal Code and to repeal Law 4/2015 on Citizen Security, in order to protect freedom of expression." Apart from Bildu, apart from... I think it's an agreement that comes well for everyone, that was necessary, and I think we should, that, stop looking at the past with anger, because, if not, we may not manage to fix the problems of the present. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u155	No, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. It's not about who proposes it, which also, that I'll go with them later, because here we all have a past, right? And it depends on who proposes it, because it is more legitimized or not to talk about certain issues. Look, I wasn't gonna tell you guys anything, but, well. What the Councillor said, as it is not a matter of discussing with him today, is also a matter of note, because there is also much to talk about about about how freedom of the press, freedom of expression and respect for what you think differently about ETB. Or do I have to bring back this ETB program, paid for with the money of all Basques, of those who only feel Basque and those who feel Basque and Spanish, and in which we were directly insulted, denigrated and put on as we were, right? It is that the freedom of expression for some is to insult the different. Do not exercise freedom of expression; it is insult and insult the different. And that's not freedom of expression. And, you, gentlemen of Podemos. Mrs García, I of the Bolivarian dictatorship, to see if you listen to me, I have not spoken, now you are defenders of Venezuela for a while. But you're talking about freedom of expression. You, who have also frightened and pointed out journalists. His thing is that his press is the vetoed press, the manipulated media, the judges and prosecutors who are addicted to the government of change and who are not, therefore, criticized. If you're experts at double standards. If in front of a poem by Irene Montero, who said something they didn't like...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u156	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u157	... –and here there is freedom to say what you like and what you don't like – what did Mrs. Irene Montero do? Well, file a lawsuit and ask 70,000 euros from the one who had made that poem. But isn't it about being able to say what you want? Nooo... That's right, in exercise of his freedom of expression, his partner – and I don't know if he's going to come here and say something – said he'd whip a hostess. I don't know what Mrs Arana will think of that, whether that's defending freedom of expression or what it is. They defend the freedom of expression of those who offend the victims of terrorism, of those who mock Irene Villa...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u158	Please be quiet. Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u159	Irene Montero applauds a humorist who can humiliate the victims of terrorism. Because jokes may be something you like, but humor is not a crime. Now that is so, Podemos Málaga censors the action of a humorist, of the humorist Cremades, because it is an exaltation of the machismo and considers that the work should be suspended. Freedom of expression must be defended. Toni Albà called Inés Arrimadas a bad whore; asked for the boycott of Carmen Machi's work for supporting federalism in the face of independence; called Albert Rivera a fucking demagogue; former Minister Jaime Mayor Oreja, a fascist son of a bitch; he defined Spain as the biggest brothel in the world, and the Spanish state as a terrorist group. All this is the exercise of freedom of expression. Now, that does, that does, when a gag from Els Joglars, Travel with us persona non grata [Besoak astindu ditu]. And I repeat, ETA monograph. No, no. If those who can't stand an ETA monograph are you. It's you. It's you because you're still in it, and I don't change a bit of what I've said before. And I was bringing up before this morning, but now it's coming up more. You have no legitimacy, none, to speak of freedom, to speak of expression of freedom, because for 40 years you have been the political and social support of a terrorist gang. But they still are. They still are. Because you are what you have defended and what you have represented. And yes, they still are: the murder, the threat, the persecution of journalists, of all those who, in exercise of their freedom of expression, said what you did not like. And all those attacks that you still consider fair today. Because, if not, you would have had it very easy, Mr. Urruzuno. He goes up here and says: truly, it was unfair; everyone has the right to their freedom of expression. But no. No, no, He's still considering it fair. And you have to have a lot of nerve to come here today, and not to exercise freedom of expression, to insult the one who was up, who had said nothing, to insult the one who was up. That's a lot of crap! And you say it's that freedom of expression is under attack. What I've told here before is a sample of his macabre way of understanding freedom of expression. And you say you don't have to talk about the past. Of course we have to talk about the past, but about the past as it happened, as it happened... Not that sweet vision you want to make, which you have achieved today. Look, I have to give them the reason. They got it today with the passing of this morning's law. Because, even if for some I had an objective, which we can share, which is to compensate the victims, not for you. And that is what they have achieved, which is to give a letter of nature to the theory of conflict. Directly, Bildu's spokesman said that after the infamous, insulting, shameful and shameful intervention. This law is supposed to tell you what happened. Multiple violence. That's it. And that is what you, gentlemen of the PSE, have lent yourselves to. Why? Because they are the partners, the partners to make him president and the partners to pass the decrees yesterday, to keep the Falcon and the chair of the Moncloa. Look, gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, you who have suffered what you have suffered, like us, should tell Mr Sánchez that there are things that should not be admitted even to keep the Falcon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u160	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and we'll go together to the middle-class correction of Podemos. No points requested. Is there a problem? You can vote for the points. So we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u161	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u162	So the second point is not accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposition, which Podemos, as a parlamentary group, intends with one another to learn the rest of the matter. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mr. Bollain, representing the Podemos team, is your word, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u163	Well, good evening to all. What role now that Mrs. Llanos has made jokes about us, hasn't she? In Iran, after Venezuela, we will try to return here, and first of all, at five o'clock, that he has just started running at Gares, and that, well, we make a Podemos, and that we wish to explain and give all our protection to an action which is so important. For, well, the commitment to promote the use and knowledge of the cradle is over us, and we believe that our language must be alive in all the territories of life. Before we start with the other legal proposal, I'd like to say three things. First, that language policy is to change clearly; that is to be seen after having seen or read the last reports. We've reached a moment when following the same road leads us nowhere, and the answer we've given is by no means. We believe, on the one hand, that courage and imagination are required, and we believe, on the other hand, that economic resources, material resources, and well, talking euscals, are a true will to those of the Basque students. Secondly, I should like to say, that we shall all agree, that in the first order, first class, it is a necessity to guarantee the language of the population; and that to those who are speaking Basques the right of mutual intercourse, and the right of knowing their own language to those who speak not. And we think it's too bad that our people should have a close relationship and not have the right to talk about the administration, or to secure the right of those who want to learn it. And thirdly, I'd like to say that economic obstructions must be removed so that we can learn and talk what is a language of our own. And that's why we think we need the policies for language normalization. Policy for the languageization of those who promote and naturalize the use of the Euskar, and not those which are used to explore and exceed the sciences by so many persecutions or profiles. And, as I said, there's a need to change language policy, and we're getting more and more clearly seeing this. The Social Context changes and we believe that the state of the euca is rather disturbing. From the beginning, since we entered here, our group has defended its freeness by different enterprises, and, as we are discussing today, the other proposition is derived from this, and it is true that a time has passed since we have registered it, and we think it's best to update it. In this sense, then, the medium we've agreed to. It is true that different undertakings have been introduced in this legislation, the last of which is a proposition of law, and the free. It is another step, and we may readily observe it, but it is for us that we have been a little short, and have therefore introduced 33 changes, and, well, we shall see what the course of this legal proposition may be, and I hope, may be obtained by extensive agreements in this sense. And then today we want to keep what we defended as an original proposition. Four things, four subjects, I'd like to remark: First, as I have said, we must change language policy. And this, in our opinion, is necessarily to speak of means, especially of physical means. And secondly, that the right of learning, of learning, of learning, of acquiring gifts, and of mutual intercourse with the Essscal Administration, is to be found in all the worlds, because these rights are not now fulfilled, and we believe that time is at the end of this situation. Thirdly, We have more than once said how much freedom ought to be expressed in our opinion, and in this proposition of the Law mentioned, B2 is said to be. For us, then, it's short, and it's not much. Well, we all know that in a lot of jobs C1 is required to develop or to become communicative, all of us know that C1 is highly recommended, don't we? And in the fourth place, we want a effective state of activity, because, as we believe, the systems of our present contributions are not fair, and it is easy to explain by an example, isn't it? For example, if a friend wanted to learn to make a stand at school, we know how much he should pay from his own pocket? Well, in the beginning, 500-600 euros, which, in our opinion, is a population of euscal or of eusscal population, cannot do, and we believe that it is a great effort. So the answer is simple: You're guaranteed that there's no one left with the current loans, right? So the conclusion is, we believe, that many people who are trying to study Euscadin can't study euca for financial reasons. And that is why we believe that we are required to change the legislature; here we have an old-fashioned, very old-fashioned, the Basque Act, and, well, we required a change of that law in our proposition: for, well, the will is usually very pretty, but the laws rule it after all. And secondly, to give the people economic resources that they don't have today, because well, they don't get money out of their pockets from the beginning, do they? Also, we believe that we must guarantee it in the new state, and when we ask how to guarantee the rights of language with efficiency, we think it's plain and clear to our new state, as the other social rights are guaranteed, don't we? Well, after all, our initial proposal has been a little disaffected, but, well, we're glad that we've come to a great deal of agreement, and even if we don't ask for it, it's a step forward, and so we're glad that at least four teams have signed this middle correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u164	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u165	Well, he's started running for Gares, and we've got days ahead of us full of moscans and euphores, Mr. Zupiria, let's have a click on the euca for the rest of the year, and we're really taking a political initiative. And, of course, there was no lack of initiative connected with the company of the whole legislature. In the preceding plune, expression, and today an initiative. Even with the Eucharism, the same behaviour was repeated: and all the members of the legislature, excited and enthusiastic, all over the place, were left in vain good intentions. Unluckily, the same thing happens with the good intentions of New Year's Day, and the first lessons in the holidays. All of us in the photograph of the Euskarian police, all of us in support of the eucalyptus, all of us in eucalyptus, but that's the way to the eucalyptus. Punto. And I don't mean to say that popular, popular, and spectacular initiatives are not necessary, but these enterprises, without a year's initiative, are left in nothingness. And I'm so sorry. I'm very sorry, but I have no reason to be happy and hopeful in what's going on today. Reality won't let me. I'd love to be happy, but no... even if I'm gonna be part of the run, I'm gonna keep running, I'm gonna keep track of it, I'm excited about everything that runs through. But today I'm going to tell you what I think and I'm not going to be politically correct. That's for starters, workers, Indians, wrestlers... I wish to congratulate and to thank you. I may congratulate you on another motive, but not today. Another day. Today, goodbye and honor... To-day, to the heart of the eucalyptus, to the weary mouths and hands of our homes and homelands. Our discussion today, Mr. Bollain, is July 2017. I don't know how much rain it's been since then. And again, as if there were not a law that will establish a free will, just as when Monday is over and we are about to begin our discussion. But, as I said before, as your colleague confessed to us, today it was a question of talking about the eucalyptic. By the way, the sects that support the Government, EAJk and PSE, with the corrections made by it, change the law to guarantee freedom. You change it from the top to the bottom, you're decorating it. It doesn't guarantee freeness, and it's just a system of help that stays where we are. And if that's the case, don't tell us about us, if that's what you're doing. Fools, we are fools! A fool who introduced us to a legal proposition, and moreover to promote this medium, when it was not mine that made it my business to carry it. It's true, with Mrs. Guruga's help, but we've both been playing and trying to get the law going, but seeing corrections, we're stupid. Let's try it sometime. But I don't know why I wonder or get hurt. Yes, it's the thorn that hurts me when it attacks the eucalyptus, because I feel the attack myself. In the name of each other's life, balance, equality... When I see that the frames and frames which you wish to put into several places, my heart falls to the ground, and that I think myself one of those which are ready for all. Look, the data we're holding isn't good. They're very disturbing. And it's not because EH Collect says it's not. In the reports which the government herself makes, data is very objective. ISEI-IVEI, which itself extracts data from the diagnosis of evaluation, or other tests and observations made by Socilinguistina Klustera, or the last report of the school sports, which the government itself has contributed, or the data which comes and confirms itself round the young ones: the quality and use of the support, though we have the greatest degree of knowledge. And yet the rules of rules and legal frames are not to be renewed for the language policy required by the times, because it is the frame that has been set at the moment, cannot be embellished, 'tis not politics'. And those who establish this are more than anyone else those who make politics. These are those who really make politics, those who profess language, because every initiative, every attitude, every attitude, is politics. And because it is a policy too, because it is a policy, a policy not to be put into the notebook of a general policy and a game-field, a policy that condemns itself to a corner for the name, respect, variety, co-operation, or complexity of the game. There's a lot of complexes: cool traindy Make it come, Basque Country San Sebastian Region Susceals of Euscan or the equality of eucaia, the prestige... the departure, the policy for the euphoria, do you really think that it denies multiplicity, that it denies equality, that it denies communion? I don't think so. But today's reality is that, in the defensive. The 82 law assisted us, the law of 82 helped us to get through the reality we were in, and we had a tremendous career. But that was over a long time ago. Now we have another social reality, and we need another frame to answer the reality we have, and from that reality to look forward and to the future. But you don't want to see it, you look the other way. And, for example, I've been trying to... I have tried to discuss today, so that the legislature could study the government, the parliament, the inspectors, the inspectors, the inspectors... whether it was proper to renew this law, it was necessary... A test, and we didn't get it either. Come on! And what do we find in XXI. On the 21st floor? Well, 21th. we still find in the century that it is not an obligation to enter the Administration, our natural language. By the way, in Galicia, a few days ago, the duty of knowing the subject has been confirmed, and there the Popular Party commands, ladies and gentlemen: In the autonomy which the popular party commands, the subject of the administration has been assigned a duty, and it is not even here to be heard. Besides, even the young man is now named by the Government as a natural language. In the field of education, as well as in the theory, the most euscalized area, it can be introduced or defended by public offers. EIB XV. he has become a subject-century tool, XV. lost in the century, apolitical to the young, what to say about the virtual world of digitalization, and we can go on for a long time. Is there much to do, we need a great deal of politics, but is there a policy of eussa? Some of these things are from here and there, but as my grandmother would say, "but they are in the garden." We agreed today, yes. We agreed, but almost without a consent, because when we speak of the Basque, we must agree. But when we begin to speak of the exact politics of the eucaia, there is no consent, and we see it often: there is neither agreement nor diagnosis. And the problem is neither time nor maximalism nor miniatureism. The fact is, without euphorus, that this people is nothing, is to understand that it is nothing. And the children understand it perfectly: they need no thesis to understand that this people is nothing without eucharism. And I shall never forget it when one of my sons, when I went with my sons to Donibanne Lozaz, one of my sons, said to me: "Mother, there's no talk of euscan here, is this the Basque Country? " Unfortunately, we don't have to go far because more than one person would ask whether the Parliament is in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u167	Thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good afternoon. Well, I think that when we talk about this subject, we must come out of a premises, and be convinced that the right to be exposed to the knowledge and equivocation of the rest is to be exposed to this autonomy community. And this is the case, and this is more especially the case, both in the Constitution and in the State of Guernica. We have the right of knowing Basque Autonomy in Esscany, and therefore different institutions must establish this right, and we must say that they assert it clearly. That's why I said we should get out of this premise, and we can't deny this premise because it's undeniable. First or foremost, we do have to say from the People's Group that the initiative presented by the Elkarrekin Podemos group is somewhat out of time, because, on the one hand, it was presented... –all groups have the freedom to choose the topics that are on the agenda in the plenary sessions of every Thursday, ordinary – But it is true that this initiative, Mr Bollain, was presented on 21 July 2017. It seems that you were not – or, so far, have not – very hasty, or have not considered, until now, almost two years later, an absolutely priority issue for debate in this House. Because, in the exercise of that power which belongs to all groups, you have not chosen this subject to date to include it in the agenda, until – as I say – almost two years later. And, on the other hand, I was saying what is out of time or place – if I may, Mr Bollain, and with all due respect this comment – because there is already a legislative initiative on the table, a proposal for a law on this aspect, which has also been completed recently, and I therefore believe that the positions are clearly set out in all the amendments that we have tabled by the various groups. According to what I have said, we have a certain conformity of law with regard to this subject, in this case, that the Podemos does not present together, and in this proposition the standards or ends of each party, or the attitude of each party, have been clearly expressed in every correction we have set forth. Hemen, propose Honen Justifikazian, aipatzen da politica linguistikoak aldaketa bat behar duela, gaur egungo egoera ikusi ondoren. That linguistic policy requires a change, it is said in the justification of this initiative, in view of the current situation of the Basque language recognized in recent studies. Indeed, we have stated, in numerous statements and in numerous debates on this issue, that the various studies clearly show that knowledge of the Basque language increases but not its use. Eta ha ha horrela izanda, ikerketa desberdinek aipatzen due argi eta garbi euskararen ezaguera igotzen da la baina ebilera aldi berean ez da igotzen. Eta honek, egia da, hausnarketa bat beharko luke. Look, I'm gonna use some data to make this assertion and make it clear that it's not the Populative Party's opinion. The report of the Basque Education Council makes it clear that Basque has descended in the domestic sphere, that is, in the area in which families speak in Basque. We have also known – and this prompted a question from my colleague Ruiz de Arbulo – about the use of the Zuzenean service, which as you all know is the service of citizen care of the Basque Government, and clearly the figures speak for themselves. The figures clearly say that of the total attention provided by the Zuzenean service, total data 2018-2017 – as shown and shown in the press release and in the data provided by the Government – the number of consultations in Spanish is 83.6% of the total and the number of consultations in Basque is 12.9%. That is to say, Basque citizens can go to the Administration in both Basque and Spanish, but the data show that, mostly, Basque society, when it goes to the Administration, to the Basque Government, through this service, does it mostly in Spanish. But that doesn't mean – don't turn me around – that you don't guarantee the right to go to the administration in Basque or to be served in Basque, yes. But, as that right exists, people, Basque citizens, when we go to the Administration, we freely choose the language in which we go to the Administration and those who want to do it in Basque have the opportunity to do it in Basque. Therefore, the possibility of addressing the Administration and exercising the right to speak in Basque before the Administration is absolutely guaranteed, as it could not otherwise be. Another thing is that some would like those figures to be different, but the reality, obviously, of the facts is what it is. And look, it's also that if we compare the 2017 data with the 2018 data, the petitions or the people who have addressed the Administration in Basque go down almost a point and a half; therefore, the trend seems to be that it is down, from the absolute freedom that each person exercises when addressing the Administration. That's why I think it's important... you had bear interest izango litzatekeela galdetzea zergatik beer edo euskararen ez den handitzen eta zergatik jendeak euskara ikasten duen. That is why I think it is convenient for us to reflect again on why it does not increase its use, increase knowledge, but does not increase its use and why people really learn Basque. Yeah, really, people when they go to a euskaltegi Therefore, as I said, everyone has the right to get involved in Basque; argi dago politica linguistikoa berrikusi behar dugula. Because the results, of course, after taking into account the enormous economic and personal efforts, because here there are many personal efforts that are made to learn Basque, and many people with the motivation to learn Basque... and that's what we have to get to change and that's what we have to get to change linguistic policies, that we also have to turn those tax policies around, that they get people to learn Basque because they have to believe a certain profile when it comes to accessing a public job, and they won't learn it because they really want to use it in their daily lives. As I said, we believe that there is an initiative which is already on the table, in the process; the various groups have had the opportunity to table the corresponding amendments. We consider it absolutely necessary that... when we speak of the linguistic debate, of the linguistic policy, that for us, obviously, it is clearly better, we refer to the results, and, above all, considering that we believe that the way is not imposition, but the way is absolute freedom, we respect the freedom of choice of that person who is addressed to the Administration, or the freedom of choice of those parents who want their children to study throughout model D, or also the freedom of choice of those parents who also want their children to study in model A, which, as we all know, in this autonomous community is not entirely or absolutely guaranteed. That is why I say that we are presenting an amendment of the whole, because we firmly believe that there is progress in the euskera's momentum in this autonomous community, but obviously taking into account the socio-linguistic reality of each area, the principle of non-discrimination and, of course, leaving aside, once and for all, those tax policies which are achieving precisely the opposite effect. That is why we are going to defend our amendment as a whole. I believe that this is a reasonable amendment, and we will not oppose it – we will not vote but abstain – in the agreed compromise amendment, for all these reasons which I have just dealt with and which, then, in the turn of the reply, I will be able to go into more detail about the specific replies that arise from the various groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u168	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u169	Thank you, ma'am. With what we've had and all we've been through, I think I'll do you a favor, and I'll be brief. It's committing, you know... Mrs. Ubera used to say that there are many things that we often show up and test in politics. But for us, even in politics, we think it's very useful to make gestures, and, as an example, the President of Spain, for the first time in history, paid a visit to the Basque Bishop, and I felt very proud of being euccanist, eucalist, and socialist, because it was very important for us to go to the Euscanian President of Spain and relate his commitment to the Basques. And not only from the Institutions, but also from the political sects, and that which we express, or express, I think it is very good also to have, and to make it appear. As a matter of fact, we believe that the literary institutions of the Euskata are pretty well secured, but there is still something to be done, but I agree with a line... Mrs. Ubera, also Mrs Garrido, is the problem of our concern or use. Logically, the use and the knowledge of euphora have an enormous connection; for use, as is logical, we must know; but we think it a tool for cohesion, and we believe it to be an instrument of integration. Therefore, I believe that some financial difficulties must be logically overcome, and we shall also have the ability to achieve one position, one position, and one middle course of the opposite. I think that law-proposited proposition was here accepted, and, as I said that day, it's extremely good for euccanations, even for the use of the eucalyptus, and we have a good opportunity to advance. It will not be easy, especially here, as I have said before, to obtain intermediates from one stomach to another, and even according to the amendments we have advanced, we have at least a chance of attaining them. So we have to give the opportunity to learn, because we have to overcome economic obstacles as far as possible, especially as I've said before, because it's a very important tool for integration. So, we're really excited about the media we signed today. We are conscious that we have still a great deal to do in this matter, but it is not a small thing to have our agreements in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u170	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Guruga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u171	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President, and good afternoon to all. Today he's running, and we're going to be involved, and we're also taking part in the law, and it's not for us, it's an important initiative, people, administration, and operating people. It is true that every one's engagement, the commitment to all the teams we participate in... that he must come to join the eucalyptus and make use of it for the eucalyptus. Returning to Equimene, I must confess that we had some difficulty in taking the quintessence of this enterprise, or the essence of the introduction of this enterprise to-day, or which was the end, because it was recorded in 2017: and in order to accomplish this, you demanded a change of the 82 law to normalize the use of the eucalyptus. And from that time forward, as has been said, many things have been done. It's been two years, but from the very beginning of the law, it's just fun to be able to get on with the commitment to continue, because the cradle needs a critical mass to promote that use, and so the Eucommy decided to go deep into it from the start. It was one of the most recent routines. It appeared in the program of government, and even in the Stratical Age of Eusca, that the euphoria of Euscals is the increase of that power, and in order to accomplish it, some ends were established: To increase the number of new speakers and improve the community's support certificate. And for that purpose, years have increased the game; We started in 2016, with a $2500,000 share in the budget, and he went up to 2018. In 2019, we can't say the same thing because this congress decided on the damages of the people, so that we don't go ahead of those budgets. To mention it at the same time, even yesterday, the President of the Basque Organization and the Step Leaders of the Dobaran Language participated in an event, where they explained the work-makers for 2019, and in which the main building was also to promote the equivalent of the adult documents to the level of B1. And for the first time, in this law, he is working in the course of the language which all the regions of the eucaia are forming together, and he is working together with the works of the whole country. And we have to add to this, that law-proposing, which came from the EH Collecting Group, to guarantee the right of knowing it; we have introduced corrections on this Monday, and, well, Ms. Uzara, I dare say, that I hope, even with our correctities, that we are setting a legal line on a path, and that it would be important for us to go on the same way as you. So, as I said, I didn't quite understand what the goal was, with all the years that they've been through. I didn't know we were coming to talk about eucalyptics, we were coming to talk about language-politics, or when you were coming to ask for more commitments and initiatives that you'd told me about, and when you wanted to go to B2, you'd come from opposition to the level C1, just like we were playing in music, and not what we really need in a real way to get. We believe, therefore, that the discussion may lead us from many deserts, in a negative manner, that whatever has hitherto been made from a negulistic position is of no use to us at present, and that the present data is very bad, or we can do it in a positive way, and by observing the chances we have, we must look forward to those resolutions which we have, and try to guess at them in those steps. The law of 82 to normalize the use of Euskar has been a landmark, and I'm glad, Mrs. Ubera, because you said it was a good law today too. I think the only positive side in speech can be that. We also believe that he is good and that he is strong, and that he has succeeded with great constancy at his time. It is true that many things have changed since 82, and that reality changes and change in life, but we believe that the laws of the Euscaia of 82 have still the excellent chance of continuing to survive, and that it is not exhausted. We do not meet with any articulate speech which can hinder the use of euphoria in this law of the eucia, nor any phrases. We still think it's a law that leaves us the margin to improve. And since 82, different rules, different decrees have been drawn to make its progress, and we think that the results have been produced since that time. And I'd rather take advantage to talk about the use of today, to talk about the cross that's so much talked about, but I think we should all look into the same place, and we must look at normalization, take the historical development of the Basque development from a change of survival, have a historical opportunity, and we must take the necessary steps, and we must not leave this pessimism, which renders us so much characterizing, but by observing the chances we have, and by giving each other steps. I seriously think that if we take each of us a little step together and take the same course, there will be a great and important step. And, well, I'm grateful for the agreement we've made today and the disposition we've had by teams, because I really think our language is worth at least our interaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. We'll take the answers turn. Together, Mr. Bollain, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u173	Well, first of all, she used to say that now that Mrs. Ginga looks like we're playing music sometimes, and that's what I'm talking about. But it's not true. It's not true because we've defended the progress to C1 in all the initiatives that concerned the Basque. But not only in our political program. I mean, it's not like throwing an extra one out of the government, it was written in a political program, it's not something we've thought of today. And, well, Mrs Garrido, we've brought this initiative here today to discuss, well, as you know, we're free after all to bring action into this Chamber when we want it, and we have every right to do that, don't we? Then I think it is necessary to say, that, as I have said before, hicavity has been made to the law-produced 33, which is not only that which we here require for C1, but that, in many other ways, we have increased so far as this legal proposition was able to improve. And, well, if you have any interest in it, anyone can read it. Then, of course, this isn't a punctual thing. We made a number of solutions even at the Basque Stratical Plan, and most of them were also agreed on in several different ways. Then we have brought in several other undertakings in order that ETV should perform its functions with the eucalycco, in order to demand the propagation of the eucalyptics, and so on. And, well, we believe it must be a policy of consistent language and agreement, and it is not our game to use language politics or our language, which is our treasure, as weapons, between some and others. And, after all, what we don't want is that no one, when he wants to study eus, can't study for the sake of economic problems. So that's why we think this initiative is important. And then, too, one must say: I believe, in all the budgets, that in making repentance, we've always increased the resources of the translator-in-law, thanks to the amendments. I mean, it's not something we brought today and what we thought today, right? And then Mrs Garrido said that the right to surrender to the Administration is guaranteed. I don't think that's true, and if you like, I invite you to come with me to different administrations together, and we can see if that's the case or not. But I don't think it's true, and I know that in some places it's not guaranteed. Eta, gero, –hau erdaraz esango disut –: but, Mrs. Garrido, I believe that absolute freedom without guaranteeing free learning for the whole population does not exist, and that is why I believe that we should row together, not use our treasure, our language, as a bold weapon, to make politics between us, and I believe that we should row together to reach a good port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u174	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u175	I'm really tired of coincidence, and it's a thing that pisses me off. What good is it for us to say that the Euskara is the treasure, if the ecoy does not spread, if it does not live and do not live? And then they tell us we use it as a weapon to the eucalyptus. Please. Please. It's the Basque People, we're the Basques, I'm the Basques, and I want to live on it, it's my country, I'm nothing. And there's the foundation, there's the foundation. And this, I think, consists in understanding the diagnosis: without euphorium, there are no Basque villages. And that's what children understand, children understand. And I said it's politics. It's politics. And whoever says it's not politics, it's politics, it's making politics, it's intentional and an end. And we'll start talking positively when there's initiatives, beyond running and Euscope, in the agenda, in the entire gatherings, in committees, in enterprises, politics, in other matters. Why don't you want to make real politics around Basque? Some of the initiatives are made from here, but there's no policy. There are complex complexities, great complexes, defensive, and overworked, we are assimulated. And who wants to impose here? We're the ones who are pressed here, we're the Basques. And those who want to impose here are the Spanish ultranationalists. They impose it, and not these Basques. The Basques, by reason of variety, respect, and co-operation, treat a great number of things in silence, which we ought not to bear. That's a crude reality. That's what happened in our town for years. And I think it's time to change that because we deserve to live with dignity in our country. And I'd like to talk about property, and when we talk, use objective data. Look, Mrs. Uriart came to the Board of Education last week with a report. Do you know what model immigrants choose in education? Majority, vast majority, nearly everyone? Model D, Mrs Garrido, the immigrants choose a D pattern. The immigrants of Spain do not know; the other immigrants have a D type. It's a matter of attitude. Know where you're going to live. And to want a part of that town. It's Norma's. If you go to a village to be local, live in it, it's the most normal thing to learn in that language, live, communicate, love, work. Just like that. It's so simple, it's so simple. And indeed the law of 82 gave an answer to the society at that time. And he's made an incredible career, but he's long ago stuck up. Look, Katalunia changed the law in '98. And compare time and compare the 82 law and the 98 law of Catalonia. Look at the progress they made and see how we're staying. We have complex ones, complex ones. And the crab dance. One step forward, or half, two backs or three steps back. And that's what we're doing. What else? Another concept that Mrs Garrido has mixed up. Look, we have our rights, and when we run into the local administration, we have a right to choose which language we want to speak. But the Administration has a duty, duty! , in that language the citizen chooses to guarantee service. Unfortunately, the Administration does not fulfil this duty, but does not guarantee its rights to all the citizens, to none. Nobody. In non-combatation, not in general administration, and not in many places. So we've got a lot to do, a lot to do, a lot of eidistities to the side, and let's put it in the middle of the political diary, to the euca, to the euca, the language policy. With precise measurements, with politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Next, the Basque Popular, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Ubera mentioned that we have a right to the people, but that's a clear and clear guarantee. Or is it not guaranteed, for example, by the case of the Foreign Foru Aldudian and the official data? Consultations in the Foral Diputación de Álava: in Spanish, 210,972; bilingual, 2,518; 1,017, in Basque. Do you believe that in the Foral Diputación de Álava, precisely, the less bilingual territory, where less knowledge and use of euskera is made, of the three territories, is not guaranteed the use of euskera? Do you believe that these 1,017 queries that are made in Basque have not been made in Basque? There's the data. What's going on, let's look at the percentage: 210,000 in Spanish and 1,017 in Basque. Obviously, I believe that in the Álava Foral Diputation the right to be served in Basque is absolutely guaranteed, and more often than not. Another issue is that Basque citizens, from our freedom, and those who have the opportunity to address the Administration in both languages, sometimes in Basque or Spanish, from our absolute freedom. Look, we don't agree with the tax measures. We believe that, moreover, they have achieved a perverse effect; we do not agree with measures such as the last one that will lead to the reservation of 40% of the places in the registration of medicine to those people who attest to a certain level of Basque. No, we do not agree with absolutely discriminatory measures for a part of Basque citizenship, for those Basque citizens who do not know Basque, who, moreover, have no duty to know Basque; they have the right to know Basque, but not the duty to know Basque. We therefore do not agree with these absolutely discriminatory measures. As we do not agree with those measures that are absolutely perverse, which make the PL2 score 18 points, absolutely disproportionate in relation to other merits, for example, to be a doctor in this autonomous community. And that, then, thanks to those merits, that person is highly rated the merits, can choose a destination and the primary care doctors precisely who know Basque choose the offices of Vitoria, Bilbao and San Sebastián, and do not choose Oyarzun, which is precisely where there is a demand for care in Basque. Or perhaps here, from that freedom and that freedom of choice, which I believe is what must be guaranteed and I believe that it is guaranteed, in fact, by the Administration, because it cannot be otherwise, and we are not going to question this, because it would be otherwise to question a fundamental premise at this time, that absolutely nothing would come to mind and would be absolutely out of place. Or do parents not have the freedom of choice of the language model in which they want their children to study? Is it absolutely guaranteed in this autonomous community that parents who want to choose model D choose it? Yeah, right? Is it absolutely guaranteed in this autonomous community that parents who want to choose for their children model A is guaranteed? Ez, ez dago, ez dago bermatuta gurasoen eskubidea The heredua aukeratu nahi dutenean. Look, I don't know what has happened to me lately with the drafting of some initiatives, but I just don't understand them; it is that in the compromise amendment it says: "Parliament expresses its commitment to putting Basque at the centre of the political agenda". Well, this government's political agenda is, isn't it? What do you mean, that language policy is not on the political agenda of the Basque Government? Man, another thing is that it's an absolute priority. It is that the linguistic policy and the Basque, I have not detected that they are a problem that comes in the successive euskobarometers that are made in this autonomous community; it does not appear among the main concerns of the Basques. If unemployment appears, if the economy appears, other concerns do appear. They say that language rights are respected. But are linguistic rights not respected in this autonomous community? Of course, what is clear is those of those people who want to address the administration in Basque, absolutely. Look at the figures in the Álava Foral Diputation. That's right, the people who drive in Basque are absolutely very small in relation, comparatively, to the people who drive in Spanish. But can we say the same thing about the rights of many people who don't know Basque? I do not think so, and, in that regard, I believe that we must be absolutely critical of the linguistic policy of this Government, because the rights of those who want to choose model A for their children, of those who want to access an administration and who can access without having to believe a certain level of Basque, which is absolutely decisive for gaining a post in the administration, are not guaranteed. Teniendo como objectivo la igigide entre los ciudados... Sí, claro, la sund de los Ciudadnos no se resisto cudo sequizio comério eerción con eros meriatos. Well, we also believe that they are directing a legal proposition on this legislature. Each party or group has had occasion to determine our position, and therefore, according to what has been said before, I think this debate is outside, because we shall have the exact debate of this proposition; then we shall have occasion to do so. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u178	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Aziza mustn't speak a word. Euneraries, Mrs. Guruga, are your words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u179	Yes, Mr. President, please leave the seat. Mrs. Ubera, we're in the data of our knowledge from the last 40 years of language police. It is true that the use is not in the same degree derived from knowledge, and that we ought to do so. And the language of development of the politics of the Euska is here and is working with the Foreign Age, with the ESEP and so many other concrete plans, so I don't think you have an argument to say that. And it's true that Catalonia has changed, but I don't think comparisons are good. They would have made their own law and had to change it. Capitality, fortunately for the last decades, has not lived the political situation which has lived here, and socially changes the situation. And I'd like to know if you'd landed early in real serious politics, where we'd be even with the Basque.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eunciators, the middle-line correction that the Sears have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of 60; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-04.u181	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-nine.
