ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To employ law-produces for the High Courts of the State by one lecture, to produce a composition of compensation for the victims of the amianto. Discipline and final resolution. It would be a discussion and a final resolution; as I have been told, the agreement being agreed, there will be no dispute, and we shall go directly to the vote. Okay? Okay. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u1	So he's unanimous. Mrs. Irry's vote was yes, and she didn't have a chance to vote, but it was a yes. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law made by the Parlamentarian People of Euscal Group, the professors who have retired from January 1st, 2012, to interrupt the arrest of compensation until this day. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. On the other hand, who are they to be shared? Side shift? Together, Podemus, EH Collectotres, and Damborene, we shall begin with Monsieur Dambore, the representative of the Mount of the Basque Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, we are here today proposing a law, due to the failure of the Basque Government to fulfil the mandate of this House a year ago – exactly, tomorrow it is going to be a year – in which the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to repeal Decree 9/2012, to lift the suspension of the right of early retirement compensation for teachers, to negotiate with those concerned a multi-national plan and, if it did not reach an agreement with them, to send us a plan to this Parliament, to study it and see the possibilities of making it effective. I do not know whether it is because of the prepotence of the Government or what the reasons are, but it is clear that, when the Government fails to comply with the proposals in which they urge it to act, it is Parliament itself which, in the end, has to take the initiative to act, and that is why we have put forward a proposal for a law, which is simply of justice. Eight years ago, the Basque Government decided to suspend certain rights of officials, one in one sense and another in the other, due to the economic crisis. It suspended the agreements that the Basque Government itself had reached with the trade unions; not those that the People's Party, which has never been in the Basque Government, agreed with the trade unions. Now, we all understand that in those moments of economic crisis, of course, everyone had to make certain sacrifices; even staff salaries were lowered, salary increases were frozen; there were many more measures. Well, some of these measures have been corrected, but others have not been corrected. It has been more than seven years, and it must be remembered that this agreed compensation was not a deal that the Basque Government could decide whether to give it or not, because it seemed good or bad to it; it was an agreement that it had with the teachers, not only the public, which is what we are talking about now, it also had with other private ikastolas, which, by the way, have continued to receive this compensation from the Basque Government and yet the teachers of the public have had that right – let us say – suspended, without a solution of continuity until today, through budget laws. Well, as I say, quite a while ago Parliament urged several governments to repeal this situation, to fix it, not to accumulate the debt that was being created with those officials, or former officials today, so that the ball would not get bigger, even we raised it to the Basque Government in the two budget negotiations that we had, but they told us that it was very difficult and very complicated. Well, what's happened in the last two years? In the last two years, in the mouth of the government itself, of the lehendakari itself, of the tax advisor, the economy goes very well, we have had many older... more income than expected, and therefore it seems logical that those personnel who were discriminated against by this Government and by previous governments should recover their rights. A situation that seems logical; but, of course, when the Basque Government continues to refuse to fulfil its obligation, its obligation because what the Basque Government has sent us, it has sent us... of criterion, with this proposition of law, the truth is that it has no waste, because paragraphs or theoretical arguments to oppose are many and varied, but solvent is none. At the first point in the Government's opposition, we are told that the bill is deliberately misleading. Well, I don't know who they think we're cheating on; we're saying that the suspension of rights agreed more than seven years ago gets up. I think it's very clear. And the second, which we rely on a small number of judgments: we do not rely on any judgment, neither in favour, nor against, nor of any kind. This Parliament, in successive budget laws, has agreed to maintain the suspension of rights. This Parliament, we, our group, understand that it is time to lift the suspension of these rights. Sorry, we thought so before, but the curious thing is that the Basque Nationalist Party thought so long ago, because the Basque Nationalist Party was in favour of this seven years ago, and voted in favour of this seven years ago; now, it was in the opposition and, perhaps, that makes a number of positions different. It tells us that, of course, this proposal for a law marks – third argument by the Government – the criteria for collective bargaining of staff with regard to access to retirement. No, no, that we do not mark anything here; here we say that the agreements of collective bargaining adopted eight years ago are being complied with, that they are being complied with, that we do not say where you have to go in your collective bargaining, that what this Government has signed, that it is complying with it, that it is very simple. Then they tell us that, of course, they haven't been able to negotiate... that the unions representing the official staff, such, of course, is that these people affected – by the way, I want to greet them from here – the more than 3,000 affected, true, of course they are no longer official staff, they are no longer official staff, and, as they are not official staff, because the unions, in the end, defend the interests of those who are official staff, and I am going to refer to that now. Then there is another curious one: they tell us that the rule of spending is not being complied with, and here, Mr Lehendakari, I have to say, at last, that, having a tax advisor who has publicly acknowledged in this Parliament that the rule of spending has not been complied with when it was necessary, at last, he has his thing, but we do not fail to comply with it. Hey, they just got a sentence from Osakidetza: 250 million euros, 250 million euros, they're going to have to pay Osakidetza's employees. This means a lot less. Doesn't that break the spending rule? 1 billion euros has stopped executing this government in the last two years. 1 billion euros, Mr Lehendakari, when above all what we are proposing, in this proposal for a law, is that the agreement that this Parliament approved a year ago is being complied with, because we are not even asking you to pay next year – not this year, next year – all the money you owe them. We are proposing that it be paid in three years. In three years, Mr Erkoreka; not in one, not in one. That they could do it in one, with their economic data. And finally, they tell us that, of course, it is that the initiative of the proposing group is demagogic, because it has a millionaire impact. Hey, millionaire pacts, the bad management you're doing of the Basque government's ex-staff and staff. The 250 million Osakidetza, what do you owe it to? Is it also a demagogic approach of the People's Party? Is this money, which you recognized seven years ago that was owed to teachers, a demagogic thing of the People's Party? And when you voted for it, what did you do? What were they doing? And it tells us that we have to agree on the representation of the staff employed. Listen, you agree; you say no, it's that, of course, this can assume, and above it is already to throw the officials against the former officials. It has its grace, if it were not sad, to tell us that, of course, to raise the salaries of staff members, to expand contributions to EPSVs, we do not have to pay the compensation due to teachers. This is the approach of this Government's opposition to this bill. Well, we... This is a curious issue, Mr Lehendakari, because the PNV voted in favour of this seven years ago. The PSOE agrees with this; all groups agree with this and yet the government will vote against it. It will not only vote against it: the government has been failing to comply with this Parliament's agreement on this matter for a year. The only thing we say to them is that they should be rehabilitated, that they should fulfil their obligations to the staff of the Basque Government, and, if they do not like their obligations, they should be overthrown by law. Let the officials know that they are removed by law. Not that they are suspended indefinitely.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u3	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u4	Yeah, good morning, everybody. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we have decided not only to make an explanation of vote in favour of this proposed law, but also to come out briefly to defend it. We are going to defend it, because, in a certain way, we believe that this proposal for a law is a proposal not only from a parliamentary group in this House, but above all it is a proposal for a law of the workers concerned and of the Adostuz association, present here, to whom I take advantage to greet, who have been very insistent in the defense of their rights and who have ultimately made it possible for us today, in this case, to defend the further processing of this law, so that they can recover their rights, which I will again describe as rights that have been curtailed, as I have done on another occasion. I hope that we were not here; I hope that we would not have reached this point; I hope that the Basque Government would have decided to be brave, to face this situation and to sit down seriously to negotiate with the workers concerned, who at all times have also shown their willingness to negotiate this issue. But the truth is that, and it has already been said by Mr Damborenea, a year after the GNP which Mrs Ubera brought, if I remember correctly, and which was adopted by the Basque Parliament by a majority, the Government has not addressed this issue, and it is an outstanding issue. It was said in that previous debate that the rights of these workers had not been curtailed, that they had been suspended. When a right is suspended and it is not recovered and it is not known when it will be recovered, and we are told that there are budgetary problems to apply retroactive conditions, for whatever you call it, but what is being sought is that this is indeed a cut, and that many of these workers never recover those rights that were supposedly suspended with the excuse of the crisis. It seems to us that the Government has not faced it and that Parliament is finally going to approve today that this bill is being dealt with, which may perhaps allow those rights to be recovered. Beyond all this, it seems to us – to our parliamentary group – extremely serious that, with the excuse of the crisis, with the excuse or under the argument of the economic problems, which could indeed have been in those years 2011 and 2012, governments – and, in particular, a socialist government, a government that is called progressive – use anti-worker policies, policies of cuts to workers' rights to address those economic problems. In our view, such policies would be the last to be faced by a progressive Government in order to be able to return to complicated economic situations. Because there are alternative policies, because if we have to cut, because if we have to adjust budgets, because if we have to tighten the belt, as is often said, we are in favour of cutting workers to be the last option. And it wasn't the case. But we are also at a different economic and political juncture. We are in an economic situation, in the case of our community, far more favourable than those of those years, and we are seeing how, year after year, this suspension of rights continues and how, beyond this, we see that there is no certain will, beyond that when we hear the spokesmen of the groups that support the current Basque Government, the will does seem to be solidarity with the workers, but the truth is that they are in the Government and this situation is not being addressed, and this cut-off continues and these workers do not see the light for their demands at the moment. We are therefore going to vote in favour; we stand for the legislative proposal that is being presented today without any compromise. And we hope that the procedures will be as accelerated as possible, because we believe that it is possible to do so and we would be afraid that the end of the legislature would not allow these workers to see the end of that cut that is being applied to them in their rights. Furthermore, we believe that this reduction of rights is a breach by the Basque Government of agreements signed by a previous Government, but that we believe that they should have remained in force. Because part of these rights came, as you all know, from an agreement with the trade unions. And we think that the agreements are to be complied with, and therefore I appeal in a special way to the Socialist Party, which is now a member of the government, but which was then the one that ruled and which signed those agreements with the unions, and which was then also the one that suspended that part of those agreements with the unions. It is about progressive governments or left-wing governments not only being on paper, but implementing progressive policies and left-wing policies. And, therefore, if it seems to us that, at a time of economic crisis, applying these kinds of cuts against workers is not the option for a progressive government to choose, at a time like the present, where it seems that that economic crisis, at least in large numbers, is overcome, it seems to us that it is not acceptable for a government in which the Socialist Party participates to continue to maintain those cuts. We are therefore going to vote in favour of this bill, and we use it to make that appeal. Governments are not left-wing or right-wing because the parties that are in them say they are left-wing or right-wing, including my own coalition or my own party; they are for the policies that they really apply. This cut is a right-wing cut; it's an anti-worker cut, against the workers, who applies it: call yourself socialist, call yourself liberal, call yourself communist. And, therefore, we believe that this situation must be brought to an end, and we will vote in favour of this bill being dealt with. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u6	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I want to welcome members of the consent of the legislature in the end, because they have become their own home, as the people ought to do. And I want to thank you and congratulate you, also, for the unrelenting work they're doing, because they're showing and show that they're being exemplary and that rights are defending their work and not staying at home. In short, I must say that we vote for this legal proposition. We were also going to make a legal proposal, to return the compensations and sanctions that should be given to the member of the Muface. Our team made a proposal. By the way, the last proposal, on the 3rd of May, 2018, supported in this house a year ago, supported in this whole Union, but not fulfilled. But we are glad that another group of us may have brought this proposition to protect it, because it was not certain that our own party would protect it, because it is our business to have it for us, because it is a matter of right to us, and it is important for us to prefer the people to it. That's politics, isn't it? If the citizens are to be placed on the front line, or at least that's what it should be. But this government has two problems. The first problem... At least not, Mr. Urkullu, at least, the first problem is the great inability to solve his problems, or else the rights of workers are not to be fulfilled. And as an example, look: now we have two very clear cases. One, that is due to the calling of the Osarists from 2011, and you refuse to pay the debt until the court orders them. And the other example is this: A member of Muface, particularly teachers, about 3,000. And, by the way, the members of the Muface are paid for by municipal council and aldundia, and also by the professors of EHU. I don't know if Mrs. Uriarte is a Muface member or not. For age, you can be. If you'd decided to take a trial of prejudice, you'd pay for this damage right now, for instance. And the other problem is hypocrisy. One thing tries to imagine that this government is intended to be somebody, but what does it do? People's rights and people sit on a second plane. But what can't have been for many reasons. for it is either because they have difficulty in fulfilling the profile of language, or because they are in any case impelled by a precedent judgment from a native Government, and afterwards failed to fulfil this agreement. And that's what's happening. First, under the excuse of a crisis, as it is received by decree 2012, isn't it? Because of the economic situation and for a moment. Now, the economic situation has changed... By the way, in this decree of 2012, several suspended rights are in part restored: and that which belongs to the art of buying, which belongs to the disease, and which is the contract of the relebo, and which is not agreed with the representatives of the workers. Why do I say this? For it is one of the reasons that are received in dictation, that is to say, that this criterion is to be disturbed that there has been no agreement with the unions in the Round Table, and that in the negotiations that may be, it makes an interference. Really? Do you really think that, or do you believe your lies or don't you have any scruples? Or do you think we're stupid? The rest of the teams? This problem that grows and rots must be solved. Apart from fulfilling the promise, commitments made to workers must be fulfilled. Besides, when I got to say this, it was just like, "You know, like, "You know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, "You When this measure was taken, it was at its very moment even to save money, and now, if it was more miserly, you are not paid to be miserable. As a result, with the proposal we have today to discuss, we have a chance to pay the workers of Muface from 2012 to return to the interview and bring the negotiations to practice. And here there are no excuses. There are too many pretexts for preventing this legal proposition. For if there be anything manifest in the dictatorship, it is evident, that this government has no argument, both weakness and the weakness of its will, to fulfil those rights and words. And that he doesn't even have any complex ideas to write lies, as he shows in dictation. And the dictatorship... In fact, the dictatorship is very striking, not to mention insult. Look, you're trying to put workers against each other. The rest of you say he's a dissecminator. Do you really think that keeping the rights of some workers is dissecting others and fighting others? Really? "And you shall make it appear, until the sentence is final, that you shall not pay your debt. In the same way, you use it as an excuse to avoid paying for the legal model and conditions which are in the dictatorship, the workers of the Muface. But even if we do not enter into this subject, there are more examples and conditions, which this government has by the way encouraged, when it does not make a single proposition to match the judgments, and when they are made, in respect of other groups, backward. In the division, he argues that he interferes in a collective negotiation, and reduces a collective negotiation, when this government has made a general table, a collective negotiation, a siege. The only thing you can see in the general table is that the agreement accepted in 2019, the 2010 decree has not been fulfilled, and that he has not had any will to fulfill it. And it becomes the record of this government, finally, of negotiation and agreement, except for small exceptions. Then in dictation, even in dictation, classes give us classes of economics and realism. When the crisis prevailed, the worker's rights were dedicated to lessening, and the money and economic resources were directed to the gigantic infrastructure. Are those your priorities? This compensation is not even a privilege, as it is intended to suggest in dictation; it is a compensation which has been concluded from the agreement with a collective public laborer at his moment, and which enabled him to save a money from fun. Yes, yes, saving money. It is not, therefore, true that the payment of the composition of the damages would compensate for the expense of the public, slacken the expense, and suppose an injustice. And that's an example... Look, you got the arguments you received in the recovery of a special fee, but when that was decided, you'd come back too. Look, what did you get? From 2007 to 2016, liquid quadrangles and financial compensations gave the prices once and for all to ensure a budget balance. So what was good by then, I suppose, is good for this, too. So, to finish up, there's a call. Let us give this a remedy once for all; let us close this matter with dignity, and fulfil the rights of the workmen, because they are rights and not privileges. Let's take advantage of this initiative to lead to conversation and practice negotiation. And, finally, Mr. and Mrs. EAJ, I'd like to make an invitation or a suggestion: Do not underestimate the initiative and proposals made from the rest of the party. We know that your business here is to obstruct and reject the proposals and proposals of others, and so show society that you are here with proposals and answers regarding society. But, as a result of this behavior, do you know what's going on? That there is no solution to other problems. If the contributions and proposals of all of them were considered, it would be easier to give an answer to their questions. Isn't that the neighborhood thing? Isn't that a compartmental responsibility, corsponsibility?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Does someone have to join the other round? No. So, we're going to the vote. [[Berber]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u8	So we consider the legal proposition. Next, to the vote. [[Applause]] Next, we'll vote. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u9	Thank you, President. Welcome to the representatives of Adostuz, with a theme that has been coming for more than seven years, as was recalled in this rostrum. We have voted, as is our loyalty to the Government, against this proposal, but we understand the situation affecting these workers, and we think that, probably, when a proposal was adopted in this Parliament a year ago, calling for the opening of a negotiating table, perhaps it would have been time to take advantage of this situation; because sooner or later, it had to be resolved, since the law had not been abolished, it had not been abolished, it had simply been suspended. We'd probably have won a year. It wasn't possible. And today, with the adoption of this proposal for a law, this period opens up, in which we hope that this basic agreement can be reached that will satisfy everyone, an agreement that, I insist, could have been tried already a year ago, because there was a willingness, it is clear to us all, on the part of those affected, to establish ways of approximation in time and even in the amount, which for one reason or another were not accepted at the time. And we understand that situation and we also understand the reasons of the Government, which, from a budgetary point of view, may raise problems of balance, but it is also true that, the longer the solution to this problem is extended, the economic problem is prolonged and accentuated over time. Therefore, since this bill has been adopted, what the Government has to do at this time is to start negotiations with the representatives of the affected parties as soon as possible in order to comply with and implement that bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. What this legal proposition proposes is not new in this parliament, and since there is no change in it that can cause it, the legislative party has voted against the consideration of this proposal of the law, in the same sense as that of Euskion. In particular, tomorrow we will be debating a non-law proposal for a year with the same purpose as the proposal for a law that has been put to the vote today and, since then, there have been no substantial changes that could affect its content. Therefore, in my group we refer in full to the position held in that debate of 3 May 2018 and to the criterion issued, unfavorable, by the Basque Government on 2 April 2019. In any case, as we have done on previous occasions, we wish to express our full appreciation, our respect and social recognition for the public work carried out by the group of retired non-university public education teachers. We understand that, like all the staff in the Basque public sector who have had or had access to early retirement since 2012, the teaching staff – but not only them, as has been deceptively shown in the bill, even if this is the majority group – could have been adversely affected by this measure, one of the measures contained in Decree 9/2012 of 31 January, repeated successively, that is, in successive budgetary laws, which, by the way, have been supported by the group today proposing. I must remind you that our parliamentary group opposed this measure at the time; because, when there was availability here in Euskadi, it was banned, and now its retroactive recovery, as proposed or proposed by the law, implies a multi-million-dollar economic impact, which cannot be assumed at this time for the public coffers, an economic impact greater than EUR 275 million for a specific small number of people in relation to the entire staff of this public sector, which would also entail non-compliance with the spending rule and the impossibility of continuing with improvements already committed to all public personnel, such as wage increases, contributions to Itzarri, paternity and maternity leave, equality policies... In short, it would delay the management of the personnel policies of this Government. And this government must act – it acts and it must act – with a joint vision of the Basque public service. It is true that the improvement of the economic situation and of the collection has allowed, in the last years, improvements in the working conditions of the employees and public employees of the public sector of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, such as the recovery of the extra pay of 2012, wage increases, resume contributions to Itzarri, payment of 100 % of the salaries in the IT, resume the contract relief... Many improvements, where priority has been given to affecting the largest number of employees or all public employees, but it is not true that this improvement in the economic situation and in the collection will allow the retroactive recovery of all these measures, because this would entail an economic cost for the public coffers. In addition, I would like to point out that none of the budgetary laws that have prohibited these payments recognized the guarantee of a deferred payment of these measures, where the situation permitted, unlike what was foreseen for the 2012 extra payment. In addition, it should also be pointed out that no final court decision has at the moment recognized the right to retroactive recovery. And to say that those laws said what they didn't say, that's a law fraud. On the other hand, this proposal for a law would mean... it poses a double comparative aggravation, on the one hand, with respect to the other measures that have been said, except for the extra pay, that have not been recovered, that have indeed been resumed, but not retroactively, and within the staff itself, indeed, it is a comparative aggravation, when staff who have been entitled to access to early retirement have not done so and have decided to remain active, knowing the rules that were already in force. Moreover, it also interferes in collective bargaining; it does not consider and distorts the current framework, the current scenario, of collective bargaining of the Basque public service, and it does not know the agreements reached since 2012 with trade union representation, such as the relief contract or sectoral agreements which do aim to rejuvenate the staff or the generational relief. Therefore, this proposal, if it had been put forward, should have been put forward jointly in the processing of budgetary laws; but on those occasions, either it has not been requested or it has not even entered into budgetary negotiation, and in those budgetary laws there have indeed been improvements in working conditions for the Basque public service. It is curious the consensus reached between groups so different, between groups so antagonistic, that sometimes they veto but that on this occasion it seems that they have a common objective that is to make it difficult, in short, to make the responsible and balanced personnel and budget policy of this Government more difficult, and, if this is to materialize, it will be necessary to decide where it is taken from in order to be able to pay for this. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Third point in theme list: "Mertion introduced by Julius Bollain Urbieta together to the parliamentary members of the Podemos, the handsomest of the young. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Bollain, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, members of the legislature. I'm going to start with a crowd and a number of close cases that show the presence of the young Basque youth. Sochasus, a friend, 28 years old, a lawyer, and 800 bucks a week with a 40-hour contract, that is to say, a 55-hour week week, one day more than 11 hours a day, he earns three hours more than the contract says, 3,6 euros per hour, less than the minimum pay-hour, and, as it seems, the responses of Friday, Mrs. Artola generous says it's normal. Maria, a graduate, cancer researcher from the University of the Basque Country, 4 years working, 15 hours a day, and in June she is unemployed, but by July she has already obtained a job, because, being from Iparralde, she has no family in Bizkaia and cannot survive without a salary, even if this is unworthy; she is going to dedicate herself to serving drinks; logically, she will leave aside her career as a researcher. And this, according to Mrs. Artolazabal last Friday, all normal. She is now 29 years old, and in 2012 she was licensed at Translations and Interpretations, and for a year she found no work. In 2014, he began with a degree, because in the future he saw nothing but black. In 2018, it was a licence, a degree in Economics, and a master. Today he works at Mercadon, 1,100 a month; he doesn't even know the development of the raw internal produc, but he knows where the potatoes are. And Mrs. Artola generous says this is to look after our young men. I'm done. Jon, 30 years old, psychologist and with two masters, doorman of a discotheque for 10 euros a night. As it couldn't be otherwise, for Mrs. Artolazabal everything flows. And this is the reality we have in Euskadi, this is the reality we have in Eibar, in Barakaldo, in Pasaia, in Errenteria and in all the cities of our autonomous community. And, although it is sometimes difficult to look her in the eye and prefer to look elsewhere on the part of the institutions, this is the reality, and this is what happens in the lives of thousands of very prepared young people that we have in Euskadi. It was said in the intervention of the last full of control, in which I asked Mrs Artolazabal, that being young in Euskadi means uncertainty: the uncertainty of whether we can pay for our studies, whether we will have a fucking job or if we will never have it; the uncertainty of whether we will be thrown out into the street because someone with full pockets says that we are expensive; the uncertainty of whether we can emancipate ourselves or that of whether we can form a family. And we said, in that sense, that the solution to today's reality is not to put patches to cure wounds of a system that bleeds from above down for youth. And we said it precisely because the difficulties of youth in developing a life project are not short-term, they are definitely structural. Today's economic and labour situation affects our living conditions and affects especially young people; it certainly affects us. But you have to look at the moon, you don't have to look at the finger. And so far, the only response that has been made by the various institutions, mostly by the Basque Government, has been to put patches on. Put tiritas that try to reverse and alleviate some chronification of precariousness in youth. But this, unfortunately, and on the basis of the data, has not worked. However, it has been a faithful reflection of how this Government has understood or understood youth policies: a collective isolated from the rest of society. A collective that does not exist for 95% of the public policies of this government. And it's a shame, but this is the reality. A reality where structural problems are dealt with through youth plans, which do not work, despite the kilos of makeup with which this Government has seen them. And that is why we are calling, from Elkarrekin Podemos, for a change of focus and a review of the impact of policies in general on youth. And this, at least so far, has given the government absolutely the same, and none of this has been done. Because you don't understand, because you don't understand, or because you don't want to understand. Because, while the Basque Government privatizes education, young people have to drop out of school, in order to be able to pay an abusive rent. Because, while this government sells public housing park, young people have to stay up to the age of 30 or 35 at the home of the Aitas Or because, while this Government presents, with great headlines, talent return programs, which manage to bring to Euskadi the coldness of nine people in four years, nine people in four years, 10,000 young people have to leave, forced, in exile, to seek life. And in Elkarrekin We can, when we talk about youth, also want to talk about our productive model; because, while the Basque Government lets our industry die, young people have to work in tourism or in hospitality, precarious sectors that do not allow us to form a life project for our youth, because it is the inefficient politics of the Basque Government that makes young people immersed in uncertainty and precariousness. It is not the crisis; it is the policy of the Basque Government. And so, what we ask in this motion seems as simple as revolutionary. Why? Well, because political and economic decisions have not been made thinking about the consequences they have for the future and for our youth. Because he's given up legislating for today, laying the groundwork for tomorrow. And, in this regard, we believe it is very important to fulfill four things that are embodied in the motion, which in the end we have come to a compromise amendment: Firstly, a definition is needed. A definition of what young people in Euskadi are. It can't be that, sometimes, young person is X, and sometimes it's Y. That is why a consensus definition is needed with the associations of young people existing in Euskadi and whose outcome is incorporated into the future Basque Youth Law. Secondly, the impact of public policies on youth must be assessed. And this is essential; because, if we do not know how it affects the entire public policies of our institutions in youth, we will never, as a society, be able to give adequate answers to the problems our youth has. What's the point, for example, of making gaste planak? That is, while one policy tries to put patches on one situation, the other bleeds even more to youth and sends it directly to the corner of precariousness. And this doesn't make any sense. That is why we have to measure the impact of all policies on youth, because that is the only way we will have the way to understand how they affect and we can give solutions that look to the future. Thirdly, we call for specific measures for young people to be incorporated into all public policies of the Basque Autonomous Community, so that the vision of youth is included as a cross-cutting element in Basque, which is important if all public policies are to have a positive impact on young people and, above all, that public policy takes account of young people. And finally, we ask that all – absolutely, all – data published by the institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community be broken down by age, simply because this is the only way that will allow us to know the specific results of the age category corresponding to young people, as they will understand something necessary if we want to put youth at the centre of any public policy. And, as I said before, we have reached a compromise with the two parties that have amended the motion, and the truth – although in every agreement we have to give in – we are happy with the step we take, although we believe we are late. But, well, this time, at least from Elkarrekin We can, we get this Basque government to take youth into account in all the public policies that are going to be carried out and that have been carried out. And I end with something that I have already said, but I cannot stop saying it over and over again, because it is at the end of this initiative, and what so many young people are asking throughout the world: any political decision of the institutions has a real impact on the lives of young people, and it is the duty of the public institutions – in this case, of the Basque Government – to understand this and to act accordingly, because a change of approach is necessary to enable analysis of the current situation, to improve it, in order to give comprehensive solutions to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u14	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. It has already been contextualised a little, in the intervention of the proposer, what was the initiative behind this motion, which is that inquiry in which Mr Bollain gave a description of his opinion on the situation of Basque youth and also his opinion on the policies carried out by the Basque administration. The proposal that you submitted to us in the form of a motion, which – I believe – has left nothing in the way, because the proposals that you set up are fully integrated; it concerned the concept and definition of young people; it concerned the gaze of young people in public policies that derive from or come out of the Basque Government, and it concerned an assessment of these policies and, moreover, it is presented by age groups. I understand – and forgive me – that this issue, yes, these initiatives, were proposals being made. There are comprehensive youth policies, which have been included in youth plans since 2012, and there is a continuous assessment of these youth policies. Different question is the opinion that you deserve – and your group, of course – these policies. But, perhaps, I was somewhat surprised by the proposals for the inquiry that has taken place or the debate that has taken place between you and the Counsellor. But, well, in any case, on the proposals that you understood could be improved, I think we have reached an agreement, and that is what I would like to underline at the moment. It is not true that it has not been taken... in addition to those public policies set out in the instrument with which we have been endowed since 2012, that nothing else has been done. Just a year ago, we had a very interesting debate, on the proposal of Mr Estarrona, on youth employment and on measures relating to youth employment, which were negotiated and which are being implemented by the Basque Government, which were the subject of agreement, and which I believe have improved the perspective of tackling employability and employment plans for Basque young people. And it seemed to me – your group also formed part of that agreement – a good measure and I keep it, because it is true that I will share with you what was said in the interpellation and what it has manifested: I believe that the youth in Euskadi share a situation very similar to that outside of Euskadi and that we have a shared diagnosis of the precariousness and uncertainty that affect it, and that they are structural causes, and not only cyclical ones, which define them. And on that we must make active policies of all public administrations, which affect this population sector. And if I hurry, in recent months, even you and we too, not only here, but in the Spanish Government, have had the opportunity to take some of these measures in the same direction: in favour of the situation of Basque youth. Therefore, nothing to object to is that we do not constitute a microclimate, in which Basque young women and women stand out for an optimal situation with respect for others. The curse of the young remains the same: either unemployment or precariousness. And it is true that the unemployment rate is falling, but it is also true that the conditions of absolute precariousness in the jobs of young people are maintained. And that is an issue that cannot be discussed, and that I believe it must unite all the Basque political forces in dealing with these structural solutions, which go through interinstitutional agreements, because being able to deal with them not only depends on the competences we have in the Basque Country. In addition, the adviser said: I agree with the difficulties for emancipation, the main problem of Basque girls and girls, emancipation and independent life. The counselor said that the shortage of housing was the strongest cause, owing to the fact that half of the salary was spent for the purchase and more than half for the rent. But, of course, it is not just the shortage of housing, it is that we are talking about a salary of 1,000 euros, a salary of 1,000 euros, a rather precarious salary, which is one of the fundamental gaps that Euskadi, with other countries and other places in the European Union, maintains with the most leading countries in Europe. It is true that there cannot be access to an independent life, not only because housing is expensive, but because there is a maintenance of wages, which are also carried out under precarious conditions. However, I believe that the job instability experienced by Basque young women and the concern for young women, in this case, here and outside, is not always the main sign of political parties. He was talking about the great forgotten; we just had an election campaign, and we'll have another one in 15 days. I believe that very little has been said about young people and many of the older ones, and precisely that also on the street we are told to all political leaders, because this precarious economic situation is the one that is giving a sense of belonging to the young people who are in that situation, and that is what is creating political disaffection and also non-confidence in the institutions, but not only... You say, in the interpellation, in the institutions, but I believe that political disaffection already affects all the political forces in this House; we are virtually no longer immune, because that situation is maintained. I insist that the measures finally agreed upon in the transactional can improve the mechanisms to include that youth perspective in all public policies. Of course, we think it is right – and we have made it difficult – that the age-oriented approach should be contrasted with the associations for the revision of the next youth law, and also that this continuous evaluation should be maintained, with improvements in the comprehensive policies that have been applied since 2012 by the Basque Government for the young population. But you know, and I know, regardless of whether I do understand that, as the Lehendakari said in a reply to Mr Estarrona at the same plenary session on youth employment, it is true that these youth plans are intended primarily to deal with the difficulty of emancipation and independent life, especially because of access to employment and dignity in employment. And those plans must be shared with consensus and agreement; there are no magical solutions across institutions that have competence in labour matters. Education is the fundamental weapon for dignified youth employment; but, above all, the regulation of the conditions in which these young people or young people develop their work, and that, precisely, is something that remains to be resolved at very close times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Euneraries, Mrs. Guruga, are your words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. President, good morning. I am surprised at the skill that the opposition has taken for the purpose of dissembling and dissembling the objects which interest reality; for so far, we were all united in the data, and accepted the data which we most care about, and which is now becoming better, but now the opposition has taken this attitude, which is only bad data for the desktop, and what I could now do, the data that leads to better, the data that is brought into the table, and we should enter into a dispute that has no meaning at all; And fortunately, I think I'm looking forward. 82% of the prospect of finding a job, 80% foresees a job associated with preparation, and it's a very high tendency that 8% think they'll have to emigrate, and 6 points less than 2015 this data, and it's true that the competition will be broken, but it's still almost half-breeding, and we'll have to deal with it. And what is your attitude, your alternative, what is it? What do you young people offer as a new alternative? Zeren, do you have an interview with ondoren and ikusitako jarrera eduki ondoren, aurkezten duzuen mozio horretan, zenbat berrikuntza daude? Make a definition of the young people of Euskadi, including an age-limitation. Well, it may be interesting, but that will come in the law, and we'll have time to discuss it, to see what contributions the different youth associations make and the need for that topic. And then, in the second and third points, you ask that the impact of all the public policies carried out by the institutions be assessed and that specific measures be incorporated so that the young people of Euskadi can improve and be cross-cutting, and that is why we have the IV Gazte Plana. I think IV. The main goal of the young plan is to gather all those projects that you have when you're young, to make a plan. This young plan, and its indirectities, is the first time that it is IV. A group of coordinations in this young plan, and a group of coordinates between young people, together with all the other sets of fun, to consider the plans that may affect young people, and those plans which must be introduced into young people. And his functions are clear: that the development of the young politics in all the strategic plans of the law could be a continuation and evaluation of all those actions which are received for the young; and that the establishment of formulas for collaboration and co-ordination, and especially of the departments which relate to the integrated young policy. So I think we all need our place, and you said we shouldn't stay as a special collective plan. We believe, too, that in all the policies that are going on, there must be a young man's point of view, and that there must be political views or policies which influence young men, and especially at present, it is true, that in all the fines that concern the job and the apartment, there must be room for young people. And finally, you're asking for the segmental pores lostos que se publicliquen pores instuciums, para ver los Resultados specíficos. Well, I believe that the last diagnosis, which examines the diagnosis of young Basques, does so, and, for instance, if we turn to the data of employment, it places the young man in what state he is in between 16-19 and the 20th of the 20th year, in which of the twenty to 25, and from 25 to 30, and still increase this interval from 30 to 34. So we think that's what we do. And I think that with all this we have no magic key, as Mrs. Romero says, that we have no magic action for the state we want to change, that we must work, that we must do it all together, and that therefore we wanted to be in this motion you introduced to, and wanted to have a deal, because we think we must do it all together, because we still have a great deal to do. And it's true that most data shows us a wide range of improvement, and that we must put our strength back to the situation, because it's true that when the young are economical growth we don't experience that improvement and that when we're in a state of crisis we're in a position where we're also getting the most serious consequences, and therefore we always think that we must always have them present, in the politics of youth and of our youth. But, as I have said, there are data going to better: We know that unemployment has dropped 11 points in five years, we know it's not enough. But what I'm trying to say is that I don't want to re-enter the data, because I think it's obvious in our speech that we're in another stage, because at the beginning of this legislation, when we talked about the pretty things around the young ones, we'd look out of our studies that we needed a push and strength to give them that leap. And now we talk about landing, when we get to work, when we come to work, we want to do it on the best conditions, which shows that we're in the next stage, and it's true that we don't have all the data we want, and it's true we still have a lot of improvement in the quality of that job we still get, but even the policies for confronting it, because in the end, we want to put policy on the prevarication of young people who live in action. To give an example, for example, in the first-year-old call program, the minimum amount of salary is going up, and to those who fill it, it's worth a lot more money, thanks to the fun. I think that also shows that there is an engagement to go on with that quality. So, I think they show data going forward, and our discourses show that we are going forward and that we are in another stage, and that there are many projects that are going on, and many of them which produce their fruit. It is true that it is necessary to make an analysis of politics with regard to each policy, whether they work for years, or not, for years, to see why those who work are not able to work, and how we ought to improve, but always to face the situation of the moment, in the end, we must face reality. I believe in politics that we believe in the power of transforming what we are living in reality at the moment, and that Voltaire said that we slept in my own bed. And I think that without idealizing the situation, we have to work in order to face the reality we have and find what is good for the young. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. We listened to you at the beginning of last month, Mr Bollain, when you came up to the rostrum to ask the Councilwoman for Employment and Social Policy, about the situation you painted frankly black of the young Basques, with a view mainly to three aspects: the search for a first job, the search for a job that is of quality and not a precarious job, and the possibility of being able to emancipate and initiate a project of life individually or in partnership, in some way separating itself from the family home where they have been developing their personal project so far. The speech you gave to us really put us in a situation that we all know, which is very high unemployment rates for adults, frankly bad working conditions and the impossibility, for virtually all young people, of leaving home, leaving home, until almost 30 years of age. Faced with this situation, the counselor, in a speech that I did not find particularly convincing, with a lot of data on the table, obviously those who endorse the management that young people are doing from their department, told us that things could improve, but that they were quite well. I insist, you did not convince me, but it seems that you did have to convince me, because the initiative that you presented to us, after that inquiry, the only thing that comes to us, Mr Bollain, is that we are given all the data segmented by age, of the data that the Government of the general of its policies provides. It also urges the Government to make an assessment of all its public policies on young people; that is, we are happy and satisfied with the public policies of this Government vis-à-vis young people, and all we ask is that they be assessed how they impact on that segment of the population. And, finally or first, even if I deal with it in the last, in the first of its aspects, I asked the Government to do the work that the parliamentary groups have to do in drafting or processing the youth bill, which will come to the House, and to replace the parliamentary groups, that it be the Government that defines what youth is about the ages, who they consider to be young, who all these youth policies should be applied to. To me, frankly, the initiative seemed – let's leave it in – unambitious. I know that you are young, between what is understood as young normally; I am not, but I am so concerned or more than you are about the situation, because I do have two children who are young and who face a complicated, difficult, uncertain future job, who start from a base of an educational system that is no longer the trampoline that was before, who no longer has an excellence in quality that allows them to launch into the labour market with the guarantees that were made at other times and that they will actually have problems to obtain emancipation. That is why I am concerned about these types of policies, and I believe that the policies of the Government are not the most appropriate to fight against these unemployment rates, which are twice as high as the unemployment rates of adults, especially in unemployment among women. That is why we did not amend your initiative, Mr Bollain, because it seemed to us that it did not make any sense. I am not opposed to the Government providing us with more data, nor to telling us how its policies in general affect what we call Basque youth. But I don't think that's the problem... I'm sorry, I don't think that's the solution to the problems that young Basques have. That's why we stayed there. And today, when I also see that you have reached an agreement with the Government, that you actually and simply do that, and you support the continuation of youth policies or that they affect young people in the same line that they are doing throughout the legislature, because then we believe that the ambition of your initiative is still much poorer than we feared when we read it in the newsletter. That is why, Mr Bollain, we are simply going to abstain. We will wait for the debate on this law, and we will seek initiatives from all the groups in the House, which are indeed the solution to the problems of young Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u21	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good day to all. Good morning, everyone. Although we believe that this initiative does not succeed and does not plan the prevention of the prevariety that young men are living at present, as Mrs. EAJ's Council has very clearly shown, that there is a certain concern in young people, and that at the same time Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, I think it is very significant that at the present day there should be again an enterprise about the state of the young men in this chamber, and I should like to place it in that, because it means that on the one hand, on the other hand, there is an important concern for them in the political agenda. And on the other hand, it is also significant that it is more alarming than that which is indicated, that in the year 2012 after the Government of the Urcullus, their affairs continue to be the same, and that the trading affairs are the same, and the impossibility shown to solve them is our concern. In the final diagnosis of the situation of the young Eucharists published by the Euskals, they are confirmed in it, for instance, by the lack of capacity which is being used to change several spontaneous tendencies and their tened tenures. Mrs. Greeder said she wouldn't give any good facts and that she shouldn't enter a data war in this Chamber today, but she's finally given them. I brought some facts here the other day, and I'll tell them today and bring them back to me as well: Considering the handwriting, we said, in the last 15 years, we have 355,000 younger men in Euscal Autonomy. The rate of young activity continues in a low tendency: In the last decade, the number of busy young people is 15% down. The fertility of Europe is the highest; it is the highest thing for children to be for the first time. Eta kezkagarriena, eta hau da guretzat kezkagarriena dena, osso bassua da beren guarosoak bath zoriontsuagoak izango say you havetenen gaste kopurua: % 13ra ez da helpzen azken DeustoBarometeraren datuek erakusten haveten bezala. The proportion of young people in this part of the country who think they are going to be happier than their parents, than their parents, does not reach 13%. And, to a certain extent, it is a condemnation to an entire generation. And Mrs Gurutxaga has quoted Voltaire before, and I am going to bring Einstein up, because we cannot continue to act or implement the same policies or implement the same plans, because so, and if so and in that way, we will get the same results, and in sight they are far from being effective. From Euskal Herria Bildu, we have been repeating it as active and passive: it is time to make a qualitative leap, through meaningful policies, decisive policies, effective policies, without sparing in efforts or resources. Another type of investment may have to be delayed, as it is time to invest in our young people. Otherwise, we face the risk of losing an entire generation, as dictated by that study that Lanbide carried out, which Lanbide published and which immediately withdrew Lanbide, as it implied a suspension in bold and capitalized youth policies carried out by Urkullu's cabinet. The premeditation of the young is one of the most serious circumstances which this people has in their hands; there is no data, no publication, no inquiry, no warning of the gravity of the situation. We are in the presence of a generation which has only been known to the Precinct, and we live in the time of the President of the Young. Because this generation has grown up, educational, and lives in the prevaricate. And the most disquieting, the dreams of living better to look forward to, stealeth from the young ones. It is necessary to appeal to the basis of these problems, as we have said that time is running out, because this egoist and neoliberal system condemns our young men to the preparation. We were told that if we had a better form, then we'd have a better job with the more dignified conditions of work, and it's not going to be that way. It was talked about millions of milletists' generation, and today, the pay for 1,000 dollars is becoming a goal. And if we don't start the bold measures by public policies, the situation will become worse, no doubt, because the free market does not care for the life and life of the young. We must set limits to public policy. It's time to jump, we'll say it whenever we need to. The situation is serious, and it may be said that some people try to justify themselves, but the photograph, the reality, the diagnosis, as has been said before, is very clear, and is shared among all. We must give a leap by significant policies, the aim of the young and of happiness, and in this direction we have brought several undertakings, and others also have been introduced, and we shall present new ones. The exact measures, weighty measures, and necessary to start from the political continent. Therefore, because we did not have the opportunity of conducting a proposition, as it ought, to do with all political groups, and also to escape a little from the fact that we believe it really important to be treated as a matter of fact, as I have said, with a majority. Willingness of broad agreements on youth matters: this is what we need, as the situation requires it. But not agreements like today, which serve to make the Government ratify what it is doing, a somewhat self-congratulation position, and since the results are in sight, which are being completely inadequate in these youth policies, comprehensive agreements are what we must seek, that they involve moving from the space of comfort to this Government, agreements that involve wetting this Government and agreements that, in the light of reality, involve launching new initiatives. And in this sense today we have addressed the initiative that Elkarrekin Podemos has brought to debate; in our view, a somewhat short-sighted initiative, an initiative that is far from proposing solutions to Basque youth – we have heard it here from other speakers – and which, in our view, leads us to previously consensual scenarios that we had reached in this House on youth issues. If in any way we agree all the formations present here is in the diagnosis: the precariousness and difficulties of young people in access to the labour market, to decent housing, etc. "Absolute precariousness," said Mrs. Romero. The precarious situation and many of the difficulties faced by young people, said Mrs Gurutxaga; also Mr Arbulo. And you yourself, Mr Bollain, made a speech here today that had nothing to do with the approach and initiative that you have presented. But, often in politics, content is not as important as disposition. And we and we, even without being decisive, are going to vote in favour of one of the points; although, as I say, it does little to solve the problems of youth, because, after rigorously analysing it, if we take up the first of the points, we believe that it is not a debate to define what young people are and what is not. Would it be a majority debate or not? And you, however, what you do is pose... In addition, the government has put it "twisted" – with respect for the expression – by setting a question of age limits to obtain rights as a youth. With respect to the second point, the impact of public policies, the government is already doing. We believe that this is not the key, but the quality of these public policies, and their efficacy. If we look at the other, we shall see that the government evaluates most of the areas of life that influence young men. In the diagnosis of the young Basques of Esqueca, which we have just received, as Mrs. And so we think that's not the point. On the third point, we agree. And this is the point that we should vote for, because we believe that there is still much to do in this sphere, and that the line-line is not only guaranteed by this interdepartemental commission which is collected on the fourth planet, because in four years it is united or united. But yet we believe that this is in some degree positive, and therefore we will do for it. And if we take a look at the fourth point, I'm going to end up with this, Mrs. President. The Government does it, and Mrs. but even within this age of age, 15-19, the series of ages is multiplied, because 20-24 and 29, and in some specific areas these sets of ages are adapted, because it is thought better or better to do so. Eta, zentzu horretan, what has been said: we are going to ask for the point vote, because we believe that, with regard to the incorporation of specific measures on youth as a cross-cutting element, there is a way forward. And most importantly, what I said at the beginning: we do it from the will of broad agreements on youth, which is what we need, leaving aside partisan struggles and electoral positions, as the situation requires it. Time is running out, as we said: the time has come. It is time to make a qualitative leap through the meaningful, effective and decisive policies we need to respond to the problems that youth have in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing on the answers, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u23	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Well, Mr. Estarrona, Lehenik eta behin, hasteko: the Basque government – I don't know how you said it – hasn't put it in us... What did you say? I don't remember, because... Twisted, then Twisted. The first point of the motion is to make a definition of the young people of Euskadi that includes an age delimitation; it makes it clear our motion from the first point: come on, it's something we were already asking for. We, it is true, have decided to take a step; we have decided to take a step in one direction; we believe that it is the right direction, but, in the end, it is a step, it is not the solution, but I believe that it is a step and that it is really an ambitious step. Gurrutxaga anderea, nik ez dotu datu batt eras eratabili. Baina ez dut datu bat eras eratabili, ez gaur, ez aurreko ostiralean Artolazabal anderarekin. Datuak is said to be eviable. And the problem is there, that I don't talk about data. The problem is not the data: it is not that the situation is 50%, it is 45%, it is 55, the problem is that, in public policies, in the vast majority of government policies, young people are not taken into account. And when I talk about youth, I don't talk about public policies that appear in the Flat Gazette, or when I talk about age-disaggregated data, I don't talk about Gazteen Egoeraren's data Diagnosis. Because Mrs Gurutxaga also said: news. There's no news. Since 2012 the impact of public policies on gaste planak has already been assessed Someone from the government, he said, has stopped to think about how it makes it difficult, for example, to emancipate young people, with the sale of public housing parks. Or when I asked him if anyone had wondered how the privatization of public school or the increase in concerts by this government affected youth. Or when I asked Mrs Artolazabal if she had data on how many young people, despite having the necessary training, will have to work in tourism and hospitality, because this government's industrial policy continues to destroy data. These are all policies, not just those in youth plans. Another example, for example, has Mrs Tapia's department assessed the impact that, for example, the closure of La Naval has on youth? That is to assess all the impacts; because, in the end, if this Government is willing to keep unchanged sectors that will not exist within 20 years, or at best will be in decline, and again and again postpones and slows down, for example, the necessary transformation of our industry and of our productive fabric to the climate, technological, social and distributive challenges of the twenty-first century, what it is doing is to give a door to the future of an entire generation, because we will arrive late, we will come running and fast and we will arrive without planning a transition that is inevitable, and that will penalize the countries that are lagging behind. And it will penalize young people who will be the people who in that future will have, well, to face those challenges, won't it? This is unambitious, that all the public policies of this Government be assessed on how they affect youth? I don't think so, and, in fact, it's what more than a million and a half young people have been asking and still asking around the world. This is not unambitious; this is very ambitious, what I do not know is whether you have understood it and are willing to do so. You said, Mrs. Gurutxaga, that the best is the enemy of the good. Do you know what I tell you, Mrs. Gurutxaga? That self complacency is the enemy of improvement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u25	Yes, thank you again, President; yes, briefly. I believe that, finally, the debate has focused, and we share that this is a step; Mr Estarrona said, it is not that it is, that it is coming or that it is over, but it is true that a much greater challenge awaits us, which is for which he asked – I believe – a political agreement in which we left aside the electoral interests and the partisans and which focused, above all, on the great problems of youth, which are assessed and diagnosed, and which are fundamentally limited, because we have all said this, on the difficulties they face in accessing housing and in gaining independence and having an autonomous life. There is a youth, there is a sector of the population, no one talks about, I say it because you talk, we all talk about data, and it's that, beyond the data – they said after these elections – no one has talked about us, because they don't talk about youth unemployment, because they only talk about pension policies and policies. And therefore, they do not trust a society that, in order to get out of the economic crisis, has mounted on them many of those responsibilities that must be of public institutions. I believe that this is a call for attention, which we must take into account all the political forces; I believe that we must all be in that disposition, indeed, as Mr Estarrona said, to also show the readiness for the agreement, especially when the adoption of measures, which may affect this, or any other chamber, on those fundamental or structural reasons of the precariousness of the lives of young people, which focus, right now, above all as one of the first standards or reasons, on job insecurity. If anything served or wanted to go down to the atrium, it was to say that we remain fully prepared to take and work on these measures – I insist – in this House and in all the chambers where that is the objective: to put an end to job insecurity throughout the labour market and, especially, in that of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Euneraries, Mrs. Guruga, are your words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u27	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President. Again. Mr. Bollain, I say data, but in opposition in general. Some of it's data... The facts are at least objective; what you've done has been the subjective circumstances you've wanted, the subjective situations you've brought around you, the one that brings the facts, at least, because it makes them objective for the desktop, and I want to show that there is an intentional condition when you place the conditions and data, and it still remains with what you've done. Mr. Estarrona, I don't deny the data and I don't fall into self-consciousness. I don't deny the facts that are wrong, and we know that we have a lot of work to do, but what I mean is that I don't want to fall into that game where we're going to have some bad data and some bad, because I don't think it'll do any improvement to young people. That's all. It is clear that we have not made a decision, and that we have a great deal to do, and that we have to work, because the recipe is to help us turn this situation, and we think it's us: We do not think that new policies are necessary, but that we must analyse each thing, what it is that works, what it does not work, how it should be done for it to work, and we wager for it. We believe that public politicians have an influence upon the political policy which the government sets up; for example, we had a general purpose, and it was 20,000 young men to have their first experience of work, and it is fulfilling this purpose. It is true that our first experience is not enough, and that we want that work to be of quality, and therefore in this first opportunity, I have already mentioned that we are going up to a minimum of salary at every call, and that we also increase and change that amount of wages. Therefore, I do not believe that politics are always the same, but that there are innovations or changes which must be given to the present state. I have already stated that the commission of the departments has first been created. This is the young man's plan. And you say that we do not understand what you mean, I think you do not really understand IV. What the young man intends to do: IV. This young plan is a plan of plans, I've already expressed it, and it places it in this co-ordination of the departments in the year's programming and evaluation: "The initiative to join the year's programming will be done to identify and to determine." And besides, they'll have to stick to the news or whatever they're planning on, and to improve the young people's condition. So, in these strategic plans, those strategic plans in other departments, this committee of the departments wants to affect because it's the same plans. And there have been further innovations. They're getting more and more steps in the course of the century, and in college more than six years ago they've been implementing a formation or the actions of a job like that. And it also shows that nowadays... Sara de la Rica has made a report in which the young formats of study are more likely to do and establish them, as well as to prevent other politics and innovations which are made in Europe, and I have them here... He tells us in the data that he proposes to Eukaki in Europe to give a formation for those who do not work or learn, because we have 3,000 young people in that state, and the fun has an experimental project in front of this: There's a observatory where we have a work-place to start, and there's Future Land, giving team-formation to the profession as the first contact with the profession, and there's the profession network. I think, then, that there are new projects in progress, and that we cannot be attributed to the same, but only to the necessary adaptations and innovations, in order to return to this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u29	Gracias, president. Mr Bollain, you have begun the presentation of your initiative today by putting us four or five cases of people with names and surnames, with a resume, with a job, a lack of work, and in what situation they were in and what situation they are in for the future, because of the lack of policies that the Basque Government is putting in place. I don't know if those people you've referred to are the result of a data study, if it's personal knowledge, if they're family, if they're friends, I don't know who they are, or if it's a generic in which we've all put faces and surnames, names and surnames, at those people, because it's the reality of the situation of Basque youth. I don't know if the pact that you have reached with the groups that support the government means anything to those people, if it's going to help them in anything. I honestly don't think so. I'm going to give you another example; this one has no faces, this one has no names and surnames, because no one is going to be in that situation. Look, I'm going to talk to you about the plan in a Victorian company – it's that I'm lauded, and my land throws me a lot and I always tend to talk about my land, because maybe it's the one I know best –... There is a very important company, the largest private company in Euskadi in the automotive sector, that every summer carries out a very interesting project, very nice, without any kind of public aid – which I know – aimed at 400 young people, 400 young people looking for their first job, 400 young people who, normally, the vast majority of them are studying a FP2, a dual FP, and who have the opportunity to spend a few months of the summer working in that company, under very good economic conditions, because in the end they are still young, young students, who are going to receive the salary of the agreement, one of the highest agreements we have in Euskadi, and who know that world and who, during these practices or work they do, know the company and the company knows them, and that opens many doors to the future. Look, Mr Bollain, the widespread stupidity within some political leaders has made that, for comments without any technical basis, without any liability in the future, the Basque car industry is closing ranks, turning back and starting, no longer to lift the foot of the accelerator, but to put it on the brake pedal. And these practices, this summer, are not going to be carried out. And those 400 young people are not going to get to know that company, and look!, much more importantly, that the company knows them, because those resumes stayed there, and, at the time when new jobs were generated, those people were called in to join. Not one of the measures, Mr Bollain, which you have agreed today with the groups that support or support the Government serves them well, and I say to you why, because none of the policies that the Government is pursuing for young people contemplates these young people. Because when we are given the data on the situation of these age segmented young people, they do not appear anywhere, because they are not even unemployed; they are students who in their summer time work and at that time are discharged in the data. They're not unemployed, Mr. Bollain. I sincerely believe that this initiative is of no use to them at all, as are many public policies being undertaken by this Government. I don't know about the cases you've told us. For young people seeking employment in the automotive sector in the historical territory of Álava, they do not serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u31	Yes, thank you again, Madam of the Parliament. I must admit to you, Mr Bollain, that you have made me experience some kind of government syndrome today, because I feel that I am defending this government a little bit, which has not generally happened so far, and not because I do not do any of the things right, but in many other matters what we consider is that it must reverse the public policies it is carrying out. Because, as mentioned in the recently published Diagnosis of the Youth Situation in Euskadi And, in all these sections, age segregation is done: it is attended to at 15-29 years, usually at the age of the analysis of the youth of this country; but it is that, within those 15-29, as I said before, a segregation is made from 15 to 19, from 19 to 24 and from 24 to 29. You therefore say that today you have brought here an initiative with great ambition. And if having ambition for you is to adopt today an initiative for which the groups supporting the Government have hardly had to change a point and a coma, if that is to have ambition for you, I believe that the youth of this country will not want their ambition. Two initiatives have brought you this legislature, directly related to youth. The first... The only thing left of that initiative and the only qualitative issue that transcended that initiative was to force the Government, which had not taken into account in the forecasts of its legislative calendar, to bring youth policy, and it was after the amendment presented by Euskal Herria Bildu, introduced by Mrs Oihana Etxebarrieta. If this is ambition, yours... well, just make him look at it. Because both the government and the People's Party... I thought Mr Ruiz De Arbulo's speech was a bit revolutionary in the face of his initiative. We believe, in this sense, that we need planning and initiative going to the brain in this Chamber. The situation of youth is critical, time is running out, and the situation must be upset. Yesterday, the 1st May, we heard a lot about "precation" in the Eusk town's many-coloured mutations. And although it is not plain, the preparation is intended to be naturalised and chronic as the property of the young, for the sake of their gains. And if you're young and woman, of course, with the fact that you're going to be a better future with the experiments that I've said before, and according to the data I've given...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u33	And this is probably the hardest condemnation of our youth: That the number of young people who will be happier than their parents reaches 13%. Hemos nacido para vivir. We are born to live," said a young organization three years ago, and from this determination, proclaiming that this year and a few days ago the time of new impulses is the time of thousands of young men in the Lema. They did not speak of the segregation of the ages, nor of what age it ought to be, but chiefly of the difficulties of their Prefect, and of their conditions of life, and of other affairs in this country, but not of this Initiation, which has come to this day, nor of their nearness. And they proclaimed the time of new impulses, and the youths of the Basque Country and the next massive mobilizations will be the youngest in this town, and there will be no doubt about it. And we from this institution, from the legislature, repeat to the Government, that the state requires new impulses, new policy, bold policy, must give a quantum leap, and if it does not appear of its own accord, we must force it to move it from its confort condition. And we must put our strength there, and there we must look for the wide agreement I have just mentioned. Significant measures, precise measures, determined measures. The Basque People will be working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u34	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. The discussion is over, and we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-class correction that the Euncists have signed. Did you say you wanted a spot? I don't think there's a problem voting at points. But how? One, four? Okay. Then we vote one, two, four points. 1, 2, 4 points in the middle. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u35	So, they've been accepted for 1, 2, 4 points. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u36	So the third point is accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the parliamentary bands, concerning the taking of special measures of emergency for the recovery of the little eussacal trade. Discipline and final resolution. The call of the proposed team, Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u37	Good noon, everyone. "Vizcaino trade ends the worst year of its history, with the closure of 300 businesses." This is a headline that could correspond to 2009, 2010, 2011, some of those considered to be the worst years of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, however, this headline, which qualifies the previous year as the worst in the history of Vizcay trade, is from this year. It is January 2019, and refers to the last full current year, the year 2018. 2018. En opinión de una asoción de comerciantes, fue el peor año para el comercio de Bizia. And unfortunately this isn't just an isolated data, it doesn't just happen in Biscaia, and it didn't just happen in 2018. The sector of commerce has long been involved in a very serious situation, and besides being involved in this serious situation, it does not appear to be a sign of recovery, but it seems to have made the situation worse. It often seems that we discussed this, technically, with regard to economic data macros, and that it's over, and that we've been spending a few years in growth, but this recovery in trade hasn't been noticed. Between 2008 and 2018, during those 10 years, the number of commercial settlements is 16% reduced. The general number of workers is 2,8% smaller, but amongst autonomouss it is commonly the EZAZA, among those who enter the "little shopman," there has been the destruction of the job at 8%. In so many subskirts, for example, on house equipment, in those 10 years, 30% of the settlements has disappeared. We used to talk about how a corporation talks about 2018. The year was the worst in history, but there are more data. About 300 stores closed in the past year. And it is not, as I said, an isolated matter; it is a phenomenon that is passing and repeated every year. Every year in Biscay, 2% of the shops are disappearing, 2% of the shops. In Donosti, at this time of 10 years, the shop is missing 900. And in the Gastine region, 500 stores. I often say that the disappearance of the little trade is like a climate change; it is not a future threat, but something will happen in the future. It's something that's already happening. It's true that, as it happens in a slow rhythm, we're not entirely conscious of this evolution, but it's happening and what's happening is the ruin of small trade. In the United States, they have invented a term for talking about the disappearance of the great trading zones, namely, apocalypse. Among the factors, I would have quoted the first reduction of the public's purchase capacity. Here, we have often spoken of in private, we have talked about the preparation of the conditions of work, and it is true that this is the case, even if it is economic growth, the wealth that is not being brought into contact with the people, and this has incested in the buying of the people, and not in the trades of traders. If people don't have good wages, people don't have stability in their work, their consumption is reduced, so the shopkeepers sell less. There have been other factors. Liberalist sizes have been taken in the past few years, with the excuse of crisis: It spreads hours, sets tourist areas, hours and vacations, and all this has had its impact, and it hasn't done any good in small trade. There have been various changes in technology, which have been disruptive in this sector, while others have been the manifestation of electronic trade. And these phenomena have come to stop. A life must be organized between these new phenomena and these new customs and traditional customs. Let's just give them a couple of details. EAE, the electronic trade has annually increased 25 percent in years, and it already represents 20% of all sales, that is, a fifth. It is true that this reality is to be considered. We believe there have been other factors, including public policies. We believe that in the state as well as the EAE, there have been improper public policies for commerce. Here in our community, in the budget, we are placed in the presence of a chronic want of will, there is a tremendous disproportion between the public budgets of the trader who represents to the economy, and the funding of the political treatments he receives. I'm sure that's what I'm saying. I don't think I've had the right relationships with the interlocators of the sector for the past few years, and he's taken a few improper measures to make the inspectors disappear. He has not been able to set bounds to great tracts of commerce to the disappearance of the regional plan, to respond with ease and presciousness, and to repair the state. For the great malls of commerce, everything has been so easy as to go mad, even in other institutions, especially in the municipals, where the sects that support it. And even so many giants of electronic trade have put on a red carpet, always on the smallest account. And it is also worth mentioning the demadre that has existed in the department – and now the counselor is not here; she has warned that she would be incorporated late for an act she had – because the department has been little less than the Marx brothers' cabin in recent times. It's a department where not only has there been a shift in his head, with the change of counselor, that can get in the normal way, but it's a department where the chiefs of cabinet have changed, the chiefs of service have changed, there have been exits with doors, we have a vice counselor who's been missing most of the time... We do not even have a full-time Director of Commerce; the highest authority of this government in the field of commerce is candidate for the mayor of Santurtzi for its party, that is, it is matching its status as Director of Commerce with its work as candidate. And it's just that she's not the only one who's been a candidate, also the counselor, also the director of tourism... Therefore, we see that there has been a department that has not been at all focused and has not been at all up to the needs of the trade sector. Because there is, as we said, an analysis of a bad situation, there is an analysis of some causes and, logically, what we have to do is finish that analysis with the proposal of concrete measures that can deal with the problem of the sector, and that is what we have come to do today. We need a joint effort, a joint effort between citizens, industry associations, political parties and institutions, to give air to a sector such as small trade, which is in the situation of weakness that we have just mentioned. Let us not forget that, in terms of its economic dimension, the trade sector accounts for almost 11% of the gross domestic product and generates 140,000 jobs, which is a particularly significant volume in the economy as a whole, through both self-employed and employees of larger companies. But it is that, in addition to its economic weight and its quantitative dimension, the trade sector presents and provides a series of added values and intangibles that are also a value to society, beyond mere commercial activity. Trades spill over cities; trades give life to cities; trades illuminate and give security to cities; trades allow, in these times of virtuality in relationships of intangible social networks, to create physical social networks of people who walk the street, who cross, who greet, who talk to their shopkeeper, who live in contact with others. And that happens, in part, because there is trade and there are social meeting points vertebrate through that trade. Because of its quantitative dimension and its contribution to the economy and also because of this added value and because of this social dimension of small trade, we believe that it is necessary to deal with its situation and to deal with it with important measures and decisive measures. It is already known that our group has put forward a proposal to make a monographic plenary on this issue, a plenary that has been delayed by agenda and calendar issues at a later date, but we understand that, without further delay, it is necessary to talk about a series of shock measures, a series of emergency measures, a series of immediate measures, which begin to alleviate the situation of a sector that, in an indisguised and direct way, is calling for help from the institutions, which is highlighting, over and over again, the delicate situation in which it finds itself, and is calling for determined public policies to deal with this situation. And so, gaur ekarri ditugu hona hainbat neurori, age egia da, neurri hauek applicatuz gero eta aprovatuz gero ere, ez genukeela konponduko daukagun arazo orokorra; bath, gure ustez, ibilaldi luceago batan lehenengo urratsak izan zitezkeen, gure ustez hainbat gai gakoren inguruan konponbideak eta ekarpenak egiten dituztelako. Lehenengoz eta behin, fiskalitaren inguruan: we propose the creation of an interinstitutional working group, because we know of the complexity of the tax system in this community, among all those affected, to value the introduction of higher taxes on large commercial areas, for their occupation of public space and also for the environmental externalities they generate. And we also propose that consideration be given to how to apply more appropriate taxation to e-commerce, which is a new phenomenon, which is a phenomenon that comes to stay, which, like commercial centres, also has its space in the trade sector and, of course, has to have a space, but it has to have a fair space and on equal terms; it cannot be given added advantages to this sector, through diffuse taxation, through unfair and unbalanced taxation, which sets taxes on the small trader and virtually frees him who operates through e-commerce, which, in addition to not generating employment, the few taxes he pays, usually pays them out. It is necessary to study these tax measures on large areas and e-commerce, and also positive on the possibility of improving the taxation of small trade, especially those establishments and traders in difficulty. Another issue that we brought today – and we bring – to put on the table is the protection of traditional trade, of trade that has been working for more years, because it has a plus, as we said earlier, of the vertebration of social life, it can even have its own cultural value; there are many shops that in themselves constitute a heritage, and those shops have to have some kind of promotion, some kind of public promotion, propaganda, communicative, some kind of recognition, and also, if necessary, of fiscal or economic advantage, which allows to cope with the situation of many of these establishments, which sometimes, and in the press periodically sprinkle news about it, are caught up in closure, by sudden rent increases or because they do not come to them by any other matter. We understand that, if there are traditional shops that have been established for decades and carry out their activity and if, above all, they have some kind of architectural heritage, some kind of cultural value, those shops and those establishments must be protected. We also call, and this is not a minor issue, for the central government to stop invading the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community in the field of trade. We also ask that self-government be defended, and when we say that self-government is not just abstract, identity, euskera and ikurriña, that self-government is also having the ability to regulate here on aspects that affect our daily lives, this is one more example. Trade competition is the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, and yet we have seen, not from the present government, but from previous governments, how invasive measures have been taken, in the name of free competition, which have damaged small trade, which have relied on the liberalisation of timetables or the touristisation of certain areas. These measures must be put on hold, and the central government must be asked, in this case, to stop invading competences or not to continue along the path that previous governments have taken – or of another colour, in this case, but previous governments – to invade Basque trade competition. We ask – and this is an example of what we have just commented on, but because of its importance we wanted to make a specific section on it – that there be fixed and limited periods of sale, as they existed before and as it corresponds to the meaning of the period of sale, which is not to be all year round of sale, but that stores may have a period in which the low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost low cost And that is what is being promoted when the small trader, who seeks to create decent working conditions and seeks to make a quality offer, is being driven out of the trade field, and when the big companies, the big companies, are being promoted that are precarious in their work and that they are the ones that, in fact, can be allowed the luxury of always being on sale. And, lastly, also important and fundamental, that for all this and for many more things that we need to implement and for many new policies that we need to develop through active dialogue with the trade sector and on the part of the institutions, we need economic resources. We need a proportionality between the size of this sector in the Basque economy and the resources that the public administrations are dedicated to promoting and protecting it. At the moment, what we are putting on the table is to double the budget over the four-year period. And someone who doesn't know the subject can say: I, no department is in a position to double their budget. But the surprise is that this economic activity of trade, which is 11% of GDP, 140,000 jobs, receives from the public institutions the irritant amount of 16 million euros a year for its promotion, and we understand that from 16 to 32 can be passed, from 16 to 32 must be passed, and a period of four years is a prudent period for that leap; because, as we said, it is an economic sector and it is a sector that has an added value. In other areas of the economy, which account for a much lower percentage of total activity, the institutions devote a percentage and quantity, in absolute terms, far greater than those devoted to trade. Trade, perhaps, does not give positive headlines; it is perhaps more grateful to devote itself to promoting other areas of the economy, to going out to the Teleberri opening factories, because factories are always going to be opening, to do well by the government or to make it regular...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u38	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u39	Perhaps it is more interesting, within the Department of Commerce and Tourism itself, to draw the data from the growth of tourists, although I think they are already losing control in the field of tourism. But what is ungrateful is to come out and face when the results are what they are, when the results are bad. We call for that attitude to be changed, for the problem of small trade to be addressed, for the gravity of the issue to be recognized and for bold action to be taken from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u41	Yes, thank you, President; on denoi. Look, the Basque Socialists believe that the support of the administrations for local trade must be strengthened in order to try to minimize, in effect, the disadvantage of the local trader with respect to large digital operators. We have even said this when the budgets of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs were discussed, but I remind you that the budgets were not approved, when the sector was also quite satisfied with the Basque Government's proposal for 2019. Indeed, the commercial sector accounts for more than 11% of Basque gross domestic product and also has an important role in social coordination and the creation of cohesive communities, as Mr Casanova said. And the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption has been increasing budgetary resources since the beginning of this legislature, and has proposed, in agreement with the sector, new programmes and lines of aid, based on the needs raised by the sector itself. And we must not forget that we must also improve in the area of governance, trade regulation, and that is a task that transcends the Basque Autonomous Community, and even transcends the State itself. The rules that come from Europe play a fundamental role in the equalization of playing conditions and rules for the whole trade sector. Because, if we defend decent and sustainable employment in a system of market freedom, we must also fight against the exposure of some advantage, because everyone, everyone, must play with the same rules of play. In order to have a realistic and balanced view of the situation, I will give some different data, in the sense that, well, they do not adhere to what Mr. Casanova said earlier: For example, in the first quarter of 2019, the rate of annual change in employment in trade increased by 0.02%, and, by segregating the data, wholesale trade improved by 1%; however, retail trade fell by 0.6%. In the trade sector as a whole, employment in the wage-earners group increased by 1.6% and, however, in the self-employed group decreased by 1.6% as well. In terms of consumption, the demographic process of ageing is not neutral. The needs and habits of consumption vary according to age, and, in the same way, the differentiated assumption of new technological trends in the different age segments opens up, in turn, a complex game, of needs and opportunities, of differentiated positioning for the Basque trade. For this reason, trade and its different manifestations are facing disruptive changes, which have come more from the hands of global operators than from other agents, such as large areas. And that is why, with regard to the proposals made by Bildu in his initiative and, more specifically, with regard to taxation in trade, the Basque Socialists have proposed, as we have repeated on several occasions, and we will also discuss this in the last initiative on the agenda of the plenary, that the relevant institutions should analyse, within the Tax Coordination Body, taxation linked to trade, all taxation linked to trade. Because the tax on large areas does have an area of autonomous establishment and application, but not that of electronic commerce or that of large operators of commercial distribution. The great adversary of traditional trade is outside our borders, and therefore governance and taxation must be addressed from a transnational approach and with the impetus of the institutions, which have, in this regard, the capacity to regulate and the possibilities with the tools of competition and the brake on tax avoidance, in order to get all operators to play with the same rules. Setting a tax for Amazon, for Apple or for Google requires overcoming autonomous and national areas, to agree and apply tax criteria to these large operators of sales and commercial distribution. And the Basque Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption has a strong stake in small trade, traditional trade, that trade that is close to us. And proof of this are the support programmes, such as Hirigune, aimed at encouraging zonal strategies of cooperation, dynamism and urban commercial competitiveness; or also the programme of new business entrepreneurship for autonomous people, as a base bet for rejuvenation and future employment in trade, or also the digitisation and e-commerce programmes, which aim to give tools to Basque trade to confront disruptive operators, with the same instruments and conditions, by promoting equal opportunities. And the Basque Government, in short, is making an effort to modernise and innovate the sector both in terms of structures and equipment and of creating a business image and culture consistent with new social trends, a role that strengthens its attractiveness to the consumer and empowers it professionally, as a current activity, a creative and also independent activity. Special attention has been paid to business competitiveness, with individualised and tailored assistance programmes of the advanced and quality management model; also to initiatives and programmes that drive digitisation and the uniqueness that the growth of online trade brings with it, and also to training for employment. There is a strong involvement of the Basque Government's trade programmes with the sustainability of urban environments, promoting trade collaboration with the rest of the tertiary activities of the urban economy, as well as optimising the new opportunities that arise, for example, around tourism as an emerging activity. And thus, innovation is encouraged, in search of more effective tools of commercial dynamism on the territory. That is why, in the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalists and the Basque Socialists, we urge the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption of the Basque Government to analyse the proposal for the establishment of the traditional and historic store name, together with the agents of the sector, in the Advisory Committee on Commerce of Euskadi, which is the advisory body attached to the Directorate of Commerce which has competence in this area and which, by mistake, we had put in the amendment the Trade Bureau. We want it to be the forum in which to discuss and agree on the criteria for aid to promote small trade. And if a consensus and broad agreement is reached in a body attached to the Directorate for Trade as to the appropriateness and criteria for the establishment of such designations, which may also have special support or special specific aid, we believe that the public administration, that the Basque Government and other institutions can and should never be an obstacle, but, quite the contrary, agents who promote and implement, with determination, these categories or designations and the corresponding aid. We also urge in our amendment that the department should work and agree with the actors in the sector, and in the area of their competence, the criteria for timetables and establishments in periods of sale, so that, together with the Government of the State, the most beneficial measures can be taken for trade in Euskadi, allowing effective reconciliation and decent working conditions for persons working in the commercial sector. And we propose this commitment from the Basque Government to try to change the current regulation by the Spanish Government, in the most beneficial way that the sector itself is able to agree and agree. Because not to adopt, as Bildu says, invasive measures in the field of trade, nullifying those adopted previously, such as opening on holidays, means committing an illegality, by not taking over the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which declared null and void the appeal of unconstitutionality made by the Basque Government back in 2013. And the appeal was based on the fact that Royal Decree Law 20/2012 of 13 July 2012 on measures to guarantee budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness invaded the competences of the Basque Government, which was doing enormous damage to most of the Basque commercial fabric. But it was then, this appeal was made and a series of measures were put in place to alleviate that damage to the commercial fabric, which was caused by the royal decree, because the appeal was then brought, and until the sentence was issued, it was possible to implement those measures. Which not now. Not now; after the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it is not possible to jump to the torera measures however very invasive they seem to us. In June 2016, that ruling of the Constitutional Court came out, which stated that both article 27 and article 28 of the Royal Decree-Law were in conformity with Community law, and therefore we cannot commit illegalities or invade. And, therefore, no matter how much we oppose liberalization, deregulation, which this royal decree raises, there is no alternative but to assume it. And, in any case, generate a series of measures through consensus with the sector itself, which allow the Basque Government to speak with the Spanish Government and try to renew this royal decree, in the most beneficial way for Basque trade. On the subject of budgets, we have proposed that the increase in budgets should be equivalent to the average increase in the budget of the department as a whole. Because what is not very consistent, Mr Casanova, is that we are now calling for a proportionality between the weight of trade in the Basque gross domestic product and that increase in budgets, when we then come here to negotiate and discuss budgets every year, since the start of the parliamentary term, and you do not approve the budgets, do not support the budgets of the Basque Government, however much we have increased 25, 30, 40, 50 or 100 % these budgets. "I sell advice, I don't have it for me," and reality sometimes hits us like this. You didn't support it. They tried a negotiation, in which, by the way, there was not a single line for Basque trade. Yes for other matters, but not a single line for Basque trade, which you see so in danger, and which we share that there is a concern that we must tackle with measures, as the Government is doing. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Well, Ms. Corcuera has explained the circumstances of our amendment. I think he explained them very well. And so I'm not going to play it any more. Yes, but I will attempt to explain or offer a more extensive view of the situation where the small commerce or the commerce of the place is concerned, a general point of view. For, as I believe, the other proposition of EH Collector's, in the diagnosis he has made, and also in the solutions he proposes, has been very little, and in the diagnosis, I believe, he has not done diagnostics quite right. It's important that you have a general view, and for that reason, that, apart from the circumstances of the inside, I'm sure this shit isn't important. It's important that this and this group of people have a place's business to push and protect the trade. And that's the main thing in this case. We all agree with the importance of small commerce or of local commerce. I won't go any further into it, because it's mentioned, and we always talk about it. We all want it, I believe, and I think it's remarkable that it's easy to help and protect the trade of the country, because it's a social, cultural, economic domain. But we must admit that the sector knows better than we do, not only works at a time of change, but that the sector is involved in a real and profound transformation. Transformation, not change, but transformation, and very profound. A few facts have been given about the operation, and I believe that Mrs. Corcuera has been well mentioned and in her full way. In fact, as far as the amount of trade or shop is concerned, you, Mr. Casanova, have given some facts and are correct. Baina gaude hemen Euskal Herrian, above the average of the state and European commercial density. And given where we are and how we are, we have to be aware that this drop in the number of shops has not yet reached its final peak. And that's a reality that we have to assume, not accept, but assume, because things go a bit over there. It is not a simple process of conversion; it is not simply a concern. It is a profound transformation of the urban trade sector, which is characterized by various issues such as a high degree of ageing – the average age of the sector is about 50 years, with 30% exceeding 54 years – a small business dimension, very important technological changes such as online commerce and all the digital challenges that arise from its rise, as well as the new global competition environments, which require the management of ever-closer business margins. And thirdly, not least, the new social and consumer behaviour trends, which are the key. That is the key, linked to the other two factors that I have just mentioned. Because, in fact, low wages also influence. Trade has seen and suffered over the past eight to nine years, a product of the crisis. Indeed, consumption has fallen, and from there, trade has noticed it. All aspects of liberalization are also involved. But if we do not emphasize and emphasize the importance, if we are not aware that the fundamental factor is technological development linked to new consumer behaviour, we will be deceiving ourselves and deceiving the sector. But I think the sector is quite aware of all this. It's not about resigning; it's about dealing with all that. And we believe that a certain strategy, aided by public administrations for small trade, should be developed so that all these factors, and the fundamental factor that I have just mentioned, can be used in favour of small trade. It may seem very complicated or almost impossible, but we have to try it and we have to support it: it's digitizing traditional trade – if I'm allowed an expression – that could somehow sum up everything I'm saying. And public action must, in fact, go towards the modernization and rejuvenation of the sector. Push that. It must also promote the business competitiveness of the sector, with not only new trade but better trade, more profitable, more satisfactory, more people-centred, more sustainable, etc., etc. Third vector: to deepen the commercial management of urban environments, favoring differentiation. Fourth vector: improving the effectiveness of trade policies since strengthening public leadership in their design, implementation and monitoring; operational optimisation of available human and technical resources; and coordination with the sector and the associative fabric. Well, this, which has – I think – a more comprehensive and global view than the GNP that you have presented to us – without seeking to disqualify it – which I believe has a somewhat reduced view of all the problems that the sector has, well, all these strategies have assimilated, assumed and are being developed by the Basque Government. And from there, I believe that, in my opinion and in my group's opinion, it is a correct approach, it is an appropriate approach, which always, together with the associative fabric and the sector, we must try to push to achieve the objectives we have set. Well, in relation to holidays and discounts, in the diagnosis we agree; that is, all those liberalizing measures, because we do not agree. Obviously, with the holidays, it is a very previous situation. We do think that we must combine it with the principle of freedom, but, above all, what we advocate – and Catalonia is an example – is an agreement between the administrations and the sector itself, in order to regulate, in practice, all aspects related to holidays and periods of promotions or discounts. Because, as Mrs Corcuera has said, the Basque Government has already appealed the liberalizing decrees and the Constitutional Court has issued what it has issued. However, we continue to believe that there must be a minimum of flexibility on the part of trade unions too in order to try to reach agreement on these matters. And by the end – I don't know if I'm leaving anything – the budget issue. Well, Mr. Casanova, this is not the time. This is not the time, and we are asking for a little coherence. The time will be in October, when this government presents its draft budgets for 2020, and we ask for consistency; because, as Mrs Corcuera has well told you, in the discussion for this year's budgets, which in the end did not go forward, this government had designed budgets, in the area of trade, which, well, satisfied and assumed a remarkable and important advance in relation to previous years, and that was something that was recognized by the sector itself; however, you voted against. They voted against, and here comes the second leg of the request for consistency that I make to you: because, of course, you will be able to propose, in the area of competences or issues for which you are responsible within your parliamentary group, many measures, and, in this case, budgetary increases. But first, you will have to negotiate it with your own parliamentary group, because Mr Otero may come and tell you: friend Iker, I need more money to boost renewable energies, and Mrs Ubera can claim more money for health and education, and Mrs Etxebarrieta, for humanitarian aid. So, first of all, consistency in negotiating within your parliamentary group without, with these kinds of proposals, causing any kind of illusory feeling that does not respond, I believe, to reality. And the budgets to discuss them at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mme. l'Espez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u44	Thank you, Madam President; ladies and gentlemen, representatives of Euskaldendak, President and members of the association. Indeed, we are talking about trade. The EH Bildu group presents us with an initiative, which – says the initiative – urges the government to take special and urgent measures to boost small trade, shock measures, emergency measures, and the measures that have already been said here but which I will insist on again: On the one hand, he says: to impose taxes on some, but also to protect others, at a table of dialogue with the deputies. Listen, as a matter of urgency, this little, because the parliaments have to conform, and this leads me, with great effort, so at the end of the year. Therefore, it is not a shock measure, it is not an emergency measure; it is an interesting measure, which we can contribute to its implementation and to see how it can be articulated. But, Mr Casanova, the urgency I think is more of Bildu, of you, than of the urgency that this measure has the virtuality to apply immediately. He talks about creating traditional and historic store names and giving them help, recognition and promotion. Nor can this be done urgently; it cannot be implemented tomorrow; this will have to be made a decree, incorporated to some extent, in fact, in an aid plan, yes; but urgent cannot be done. And then the third was to eliminate invasive measures in the field of trade; this can be articulated very carefully in some things: there are already shops that are applying it, and, for example, there are pharmacies open almost 12 hours already, 14 hours, and no one is going to protest at their doors. We don't talk about everything; all trade doesn't get into this. There are trades that yes, that are much better open, and other trades, that no. There, too, we will have to point out and see how we do it. Finally, you were talking about budgets: increase budgets by 25%. Man, in some games, in others not; I tell you no. The People's Group has made amendments to the budgets in 2018, in 2017, and we have increased in total in the trade sector a 16.6%. And very well increase in measures, with amendments and increase the amount, and after the Government executes them, which is also where we fail quite repeatedly. But, Mr Casanova, you have raised this in a context where we are awaiting a monographic debate in the trade sector and, therefore, we are going to abstain from these measures that you are putting before us. Why? Well, because I think that in a monographic debate we can go much more precisely into those aspects that you describe here in a way, well, so, like brushstrokes. But I believe that a monograph is something much deeper, where we can fragment trade sector spaces and we can focus on measures that will impact and benefit the trade sector. That is why I told him that I believe that none of the measures can be implemented immediately; they require important prior work. And second, that I think this is bringing a debate here today because you were interested, whatever it is... Won't it be just as random because we're in an election period? Like, I mean, I don't know; I think about it. And, Mr Casanova, in fact, we carry this legislature repeatedly by stressing and highlighting the critical situation in the retail sector. All that you have said here to justify, and that other members of this House, of the groups that have spoken, have done, as we have already said. And that, in fact, there are some important challenges that need to be addressed. Retailing must adapt its way of communicating with the customer and how to look for that method of preserving its identity in the digital age, and that is a challenge that is not baladí and that is complicated. And the traditional trade can no longer be that closed space with buckets and with products placed there, because it has to make a transit, indeed. And it's been said here, but the client, what is he looking for? Today the information is in the network; the information of a product, we already have it. Why are we going to trade? Because we want to see it, we want to touch it, we want to turn it around, look at it from below and above; I want to verify that what they are telling me is true. And what does trade have to do? Well, let the customer buy at his store. And for that, what do you have to have? A qualified seller, who knows how to add value to this product, because, if not, he already has it on the network. And all this, indeed, because we can develop it in a full monograph and structure measures to help trade adapt to this new reality, which is not easy, which is said to be easy, but cannot be easily implemented. And it is a reality, paradoxically, in this era that we are in the digital age, that we buy a lot on the Internet, but it is also imposed, as I said to them, marketing based on the senses, on the touch, on seeing, on appreciating, on trying... And we see big brands of sportswear that put a gym inside your store, so you can see how this machine is activated, how it works, how it doesn't. So, those are challenges because it's almost all invented and it's put on. How do we bring him into our space? Well, that's where we're going to have to-- they have to contribute institutions, they have to collaborate, and they have to contribute to the ability of commerce to apply techniques that the customer is looking for and that we don't have developed. We are delighted to contribute to measures in favour of trade; but, Mr Casanova, you have made a mistake: this we will do in a month's time, in a monographic debate, where we are probably going to talk about this and many more things, but today this does not contribute anything to us, is to entangle in something that I believe is going to have much more basis in a monographic debate than today. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u46	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. As has already been said here, the situation of small trade in Euskadi is delicate and not at its best. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we understand the importance of small business as a dynamism of the local economy and, in addition, we defend – and have always defended – this type of trade as one of the pillars of a more sustainable city model that helps to strengthen social cohesion and humanize our own neighborhoods and municipalities. At present, in the Basque commercial sector, a scenario is being drawn up where small individual establishments, family neighbourhood shops, with an entrepreneur or entrepreneur at the front, and where the number of commercial establishments has been reduced and employment is increasing, basically through employees and employees of the large multinational commercial chains, and this is not a quality job. The competition of these large commercial chains, as well as an exponentially growing digital Internet trade, directly affects small Basque trade, to the point that the loss of employment in small trade, mostly dominated by self-employed people, shows that the closure of establishments influences a business model that needs to be recovered, the entrepreneurship model and the model that strengthens small trade and local trade. This development has meant that, for example, Euskadi has gone from being the territory of the state with a greater number of entrepreneurs to being standing in line at the state level; according to Euskomer's estimates, it has lost some 5,000 autonomous traders in the last 10 years. And, in this data, it is worth highlighting the paradox that employment in the Basque retail trade grew last year, while the closure of establishments, mainly in rural areas, also increased by 2%. It is clear that this situation occurs because, in the data on employment in the Basque trade sector, account is not taken of the loss of self-employed women workers, who account for almost half of the commercial fabric in the Basque country. Small trade has a delicate future, due to the strong pressures of large areas and shopping centers, many are not able to with this pressure and end up closing. We are very aware that the pace of life, the timetables and, above all, the comfort push us to buy on large surfaces, where we can find everything from 10 to 10 and do it more agilely, but the small business has to have a fundamental role within the social and urban fabric, and we have been reflecting on what it brings and trying to do what is in our hand to promote consumption in the neighborhood shops. It is essential to strengthen local trade, because we understand that it helps our neighbours, both the owners and the staff employed in those shops, who are, normally, people related to the neighborhood itself; some of them are, moreover, for several generations, people whom we know and greet daily, who we have close and who we will meet in the day to day. Nothing that small business works will have an impact on us, because the well-being of those around us will encourage job creation, as traders need more staff, they will have to be relieved when they retire, etc. Consuming in local businesses and strengthening the local economy is a good formula for prioritizing and prioritizing actions and contributing, at the same time, to their recovery. This is because the money we invest in the shops in our neighborhood continues to circulate through it, contributing to the economic prosperity of our nearby environment. There are studies that show that the money spent on local businesses circulates in the neighborhood three times, before disappearing in the general economics. This benefit will return in our favor, redistributing to people and families close to us, not to large companies; our welfare state and quality of life will grow substantially by activating consumption, since buying in local shops is investing in yourself. So, in this sense, local businesses understand that they animate the daily life of the neighborhood, give atmosphere and personality to the streets, and fill people, turning these streets and neighborhoods into transited areas. And in this way, contributing to the habitability of the cities and to the improvement of the state of the historical helmets themselves. A small company is the dream and the illusion of its leaders and of those who worked to build it, to take it forward and to care for it. And many of them, as I have said, have passed from generation to generation, and those generations, moreover, have grown up in the same store, learning the specific trade. It does not cease to be optional, but, from our point of view, it is worth supporting people who risk and undertake the adventure of opening a business, putting in it a lot of time, effort, money and affection, and not stopping this generational relief and contributing to the maintenance of the establishments of all life. Local commerce is a real engine of consumption of local products and manufactured in the area. We are beginning to be surprised by the fact that tomatoes know tomatoes and that the menus of the day do not consist of heated food. And it is this line that we understand that we have to follow. In addition, it allows us to connect with the cycles of nature by consuming seasonal products, food from our area, fresh and from the time we are, while supporting local farmers and producers. Another of the indisputable issues that small business offers us is trust and personalized treatment: behind the counter, we find an authentic or a genuine specialist, who can advise us and advise us without any haste and whose knowledge and attention bring added value to the simple act of buying. This same policy of exclusivity also means that, in most cases, the after-sales service is also impeccable and the merchants provide us with everything in their hand to get us out of their establishment with a desire to return. This form of consumption also makes us buy by our own decision what we need and slows down the compulsive consumption of products that come through our eyes in these design shelves and so studiedly placed in the big malls. Local traders have to compete not only for price, but for leisure, with these malls and with the rest of large areas. In these days when we see in the media news of mass redundancies in the form of ERE, small businesses are the great ones harmed, as well as the great ones forgotten. The great bazaar of these large areas is a lower price on the products that sell us, but have we ever wondered how they achieve the benefits, while reducing prices, after all the money spent on advertising and business ethics programs? In order to reduce costs, large areas hide poor working conditions, precarious wages, a holding to producers and farmers, who are forced to sell below the cost of production, promoting the relocation of companies, carrying out, if not directly, subcontracting to manufacturers, in most cases from underdeveloped and willing countries, and maximizing the benefits of many large multinationals. In these cases, we save a few euros on the purchase, but we have indirect costs that we assume without realizing, like paying the car, the gasoline, the parking On the other side of the coin, we meet the small traders, burdened to arrive at the end of the month and with a lower margin to lower prices. Administrations must be aware of the need to encourage, help and not hinder the existence of the small business, which we see in the most modest family business. Moreover, it is undeniable that there is a passivity on the part of administrations towards small trade. They lack legislation to protect them, and measures are needed to enable them to compete on the market on an equal footing with large areas, measures regulating issues such as timetables, taxes, the granting of opening licences, economic conditions with suppliers, sanitary regulations, financing, subsidies and subsidies for the development of traditional activities and trades that are about to disappear. And, ultimately, measures to consolidate and strengthen the trade fabric in the Basque Country, and to take into account the important economic and social role played by small trade. Consuming in small business is perhaps a deeper choice than we have stopped to think. Using the neighbourhood or neighborhood trade means keeping the streets alive. As a result, they are safer, more habitable. A lit window and an open shop in commercial hours make the street much more attractive and that, in the evenings, the lights of the shops maintain a degree of activity that favors the social relationship and life in the streets. We therefore agree with the diagnosis of local and proximity trade which is in a complicated situation, and it is necessary that concrete measures be taken to help strengthen and boost it, as Mr Casanova proposes today. And for this reason, we, from Elkarrekin Podemos, understand that it is necessary to do so within the framework of a specific full monograph, where resolutions and agreements are adopted that really change and transform the current situation of small trade in Euskadi. A comprehensive and rigorous work, which does not remain in a GNP, which is what Mr Casanova is presenting to us today, with a battery of proposals as a patch, fast and running, and indeed in a profound development of what is necessary for us and we have been defending since we entered this institution. Not a pre-election initiative, which only responds to party interests and the search for media accounts, in the face of the proposal of the monograph that you yourself made and that will occur, let us hope, no later than next month. Moreover, this plenary does allow the situation of the Basque commercial fabric to be improved from the point of view of political coordination and consensus. That is why we are abstaining, because we do not understand the urgency and urgency now. Because we understand that we need to take action, but we believe that we need to take action that really transforms, not just a patch, when in June we can respond to the many factors that are putting small trade in a very delicate situation, reaching agreements and concretely addressing the solutions and measures to be taken more specifically. And that's where we, Elkarrekin Podemos, will find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u48	Well, I see that today's debate is going to be marked by electoralism, but not so much by the proposal itself, but by the positions of some, who are going to abstain on issues with which they are in favour, because they do not like the time when it is being raised. Look, this group, Euskal Herria Bildu, in the field of trade, from the topic of the PTS the past legislature, the new law of commercial activity, the call of the full monograph – precisely, at the initiative of our group – this GNP and another series of initiatives, is working continuously in the field of trade. It can be said that it is electoralist who appears only in certain periods. It is this group that is carrying out a sustained attitude, in defense of small trade, in this and in the previous legislature, on a continuous basis. Others and others seem to be voting according to the time we meet. And it is true, as Mr Uribe-Etxebarria said, that this is not a strategic plan to revive small trade. Neither is it, nor does it pretend to be, nor is it hidden under a false denomination. It is intended to be a battery of urgent and concrete measures. Mrs López de Ocariz also told me or questioned the urgency. Look, headlines like this: "Try goodbye to legendary signatures." Traditional shops, traditional trade, small trade, with even an important emotional impact on our lives, that disappears and closes day by day. I do not know whether the measures, if approved, could be implemented by tomorrow. But, of course, they could be implemented before if we leave them for a later and indefinite time. We're talking about urgent things. It is not a strategic plan; do not remind me that a full monograph has been convened, because it was the group of Euskal Herria Bildu who had the initiative to convene it. But today we are talking about taxation, timetables, discounts, traditional shops, budgets, more resources for the sector, competition... Man, it is not and does not pretend to be a strategic plan, but it does emphasize a number of issues that, in our view, are fundamental. And even if they are not adopted, we welcome the fact that this issue enters, and irreversibly enters, the political debate and a centrality status, because of its dimension – as we said before – quantitative, because of its impact on the economy, but also because of its qualitative dimension. Many times, when we are in a period of budgets and we are going to talk about budgets and in the Department of Economic Development we are also talking about agriculture and I am talking with my colleague who also has these issues and we say: man, in agriculture more money cannot be asked; it is 1% of GDP and hundreds and millions of euros are devoted. Why? Well, because agriculture brings things beyond its contribution to GDP – you, Mrs López de Ocariz, will surely know it perfectly –: it articulates the territory, it is the repository of a cultural tradition and so on, and so on, I am not going to list the virtues, and that is why it is given preferential treatment. In the trade sector we are not even asking for that, we are not even asking for a plus, we are asking for the budgetary allocation to be slightly closer to its economic weight, regardless of the fact that, in addition to its commercial activity and its economic activity, it contributes to cities, vertebrates cities and gives life to cities. And we are asking not for a timely solution; we are asking for the road to that proportionality, and we are proposing an agreement, such as that reached here in the area of R & D, to make an annual increase of 5% and that it transcends budgetary agreements and transcends governments. It is a country decision, to give R & D what we want to give, or at least introduce it on that path. And here in trade what we propose is the same, a path towards equality and recognition of the economic and social role that trade has in the budgetary sphere. There has also been, I believe, an error in the translation into Spanish at the third point. Mrs Corcuera said that we cannot ignore certain issues that have already passed the constitutional cedade, because in the translation into Spanish we ask the government; in the original it said to the central government, the central government, to annul the decree. It is therefore even power, even if the decrees laid down are legal, but the Government itself may make other decrees or may refrain from legislation in the field of trade, and this Parliament may ask it to do so as it has asked it, for example, to withdraw certain aspects of labour reform. And, therefore, I believe there may have led them to mistake that question of translation. I am concerned that there is talk of commercial density as an irreversible phenomenon, because you, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, what you are saying to traders, somewhat more or less, is that they resign because there are meters left, because in other places the density is much lower and, therefore, here there is a greater density, and what needs to be done is to get used to it. No, I believe that in the same way that in other cultural, social and economic areas we have specificities, here we have to fight for the defence of small trade, because the urban density of this country is also different, also customs, life forms, are different, and therefore we have to keep the small trade sector in its entirety and we have to seek a balance. No one is proposing the disappearance of the big malls; no one is proposing the disappearance of electronic commerce; no one is ignoring, as was pointed out, that the challenges not only go through the points we have brought to discuss today, and I repeat that it was this group that will put on the table open the debate in order to be able to make a full monographic and enter with due depth. But it also goes through these issues, it also goes through issues that are urgent and it also goes through issues that would have been willful, and it is true that neither the electoral times nor the festive times that we have been through have led to a constructive dialogue in order to reach an agreement, but I am convinced that, at least from today on, this issue, the issue of the defence of small trade, is going to play an increasingly important role in the political debate, and, as a result, it is going to take clearer and more decisive decisions in favour of this sector, on a fundamental issue, because there are things that are unsustainable, and the lack of attention, the lack of dedication and the lack of resources that this sector receives from the administrations is unsustainable. Let us hope that, among all of us, perhaps not today, but at later and more opportune times, we can take that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u50	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Casanova, you continue to strive to make demagogy talking, in your final sentence, about the insustainability of the department's lack of attention to small business, and nothing more uncertain, nothing more uncertain... I have given you some examples and some brushstrokes of what the programmes are: there is a strategic plan; there is a master plan for trade; there is a constant dialogue with the sector. Therefore, no lack of attention. You'll like it better, you'll like it less, and during the election period, we certainly don't like it at all, not even as a result, reaching consensus, but that doesn't take away so that the reality is that the Department of Commerce is dedicated to dealing with trade, to all traders, to all traders!, trying to give advantages to those who have the most disadvantages in everything that is the operation of the trade sector. Look, and I keep insisting, because the great adversary of traditional trade, small trade, is outside our borders, and therefore governance and taxation must be addressed from this transnational approach and with the impetus of the European institutions, which have in this regard the capacity to regulate and the possibilities of having competition tools and curb tax avoidance, in order to ensure that all traders play with the same rules. In the regulation of taxation, as I said before, we have made a proposal, which I think is sensible, because this issue needs to be analysed; one cannot come here quickly to say impose a taxation on oneself, because we have competences and we can do so, when we are leaving transnational sectors out of the game of Basque autonomous taxation. But, also, it hardly serves the Department of Commerce to support the business fabric and to establish alliances with federations and associations or to diversify the offer, or to regulate and carry out awareness campaigns, if then the consumer and user decides to trivialize their purchase, to go at a price and does not encourage, with their habits, the sustainability and creation of a commercial fabric that will economically and socially vertebrate our peoples and cities; because let us not forget that this is one of the keys and functions that it also has and that brings Basque trade, as some of you have pointed out. That is why our proposal focuses on the Tax Coordination Body promoting, in this case, the taxation of all trade, taking into account the whole area in which trade operates. We do believe that the Basque Government must continue in the task entrusted to it, since the beginning of the legislature, to dignify small trade, through the strengthening of certain policies, programmes, aids, subsidies... Finally, by promoting the plans, the proposals made by the federations themselves and the associations of merchants to the Government itself. But let us not forget that there is a strategic plan, that there is a master plan for trade and that everything is improveable; nothing is absolutely fixed. There are annual evaluations of both the strategic plan programme and the master plan, and they will certainly be enriched by the resolutions emerging from that full monographic initiative by Bildu. But, logically, they are not going to be fixed proposals forever, but they are going to require evolution. Programmes and aid which the Government has also proposed to promote since the start of the legislature, as I say, in agreement with the associations and federations of traders. And that is why our amendment was trying to steer, to reorient, that there was a pact and a consensus on what are the most necessary measures, that would facilitate the task of small Basque trade, and then, together with the competent institutions, as in the case of the Spanish Government, to go and modify and remove regulations that, in fact, are not advantageous, but no longer, for small trade, for trade in general. Let us not forget that the 2012 Royal Decree Law on fiscal sustainability and the promotion of competitiveness not only concerned trade; that is, it promoted and made real misfortunes of many of the productive sectors of economic activity, not only of the Basque Autonomous Community, but of all the communities of Spain. Therefore, let us try that the new government that is formed from few dates – ready, in a few months – can carry out this modulation or this elimination of real decrees, which, frankly, produce disadvantages, in this case for small trade. But self-government – indeed, there was a translation problem – yes. More and better self-government, always, but under the parameters of legality. And I say this because, as well as in the self-government presentation, there are certain issues that we believe exceed the current legality, because I take advantage of the journey and I tell you that, indeed, for the case of trade, yes, more and better self-government; for the case of Euskadi, yes, more and better self-government, but always under the umbrella of legality. And if the legality does not meet the requirements that can be made, let us modify the legality in the channels that are lent to us by the corresponding institutions. Nothing more. I hope that, really, the amendment... we think that the one that is going to come forward, which is what the political groups have meant, I think it is a reasonable amendment; but, moreover, it is a committed and compromise amendment for the Government, with regard to the small trade sector, which I believe today will have won something and I am sure that something has won. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-houses, from there. URIBE-ETX Mr. Casanova, you must understand that we are not opposed to the measures you have introduced. We think the view is very limited. And it proves that we have introduced a correction, with our shades, with our view, that ours is better than yours. But don't you understand me as a general disaffection to what you have set before us, but that our view is very small, and is much more general, and we think that in the commerce of the place it touches many more and more essential matters, which Mrs. Corcuera has repeated over and over. And that weird plan is starting to sound like fun. Well, centrality, from today on, I know that... the world is born... you have a right to defend as much as you want, but you don't... These parlamental groups are trying to do it, and anyway, it's been trying for a long time together with the sector. It's about this reality, and it's pushing it. Eta gero, commercial density: to see, it's not resignation, it's realism. And if you don't make a good diagnosis, I think you fall or you can fall into the mistake of not implementing the right measures, so in general. And, well, the trend, in an open country like Euskadi, in an increasingly open world, increasingly interconnected, and, above all and above all, with the new patterns of consumer behaviour, which, with one click, access everyone, makes it think, making a realistic diagnosis, that the commercial density, which we currently have above the state and European average, will go down. This is not resignation; it is making a diagnosis and, from there, well, effectively implementing the necessary measures, among all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u52	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. "Essalcal Team Representative, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, from there."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u53	Yes, thank you, Madam President. If you will allow me, from the seat, because I believe that, as we have all said, we will have a monographic debate, and it will be in that debate where we deepen our policies in support of trade. But, Mr. Casanova, you're talking to me about the budget. Look, we make budget amendments every year, every year: sometimes we can incorporate them, and sometimes we can't; but, of course, there we have never failed, and we've been betting on retailing for a long time. He was telling us about a country decision. If something has also contributed to the closure of some establishments and small businesses, and also to the fact that trade has been severely affected, it is 22% raising the interprofessional minimum wage; that has also affected trade, Mr Casanova. And it has not been linked to training or professionalism; it has been a short table. Therefore, it would also be necessary to turn around some decisions that are thus made by decree, to tabula rasa I believe that the important thing is that we go to that monographic debate with many proposals from all walks of life and that the Government also undertakes to implement what is agreed in this House and also the laws passed in this House, such as the Budget Act and the budget lines contained in those laws. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. García must not speak. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 18; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u55	So, not allowed original text. We'll next vote for a full correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 37; the contrary, 3, the whites, 0; Abstations, 35.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u56	So the full correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "To collect the proposition of the law of Parliament, concerning the recovery and recovery of the Achaians. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Blanco, representative of the EH team, is your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u57	Yes, thank you, ma'am, good afternoon. And above all, good and welcome midday, all of you who came from the Achaians...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u59	Today, As to the initiative of the ARRRRRR, we propose the question as to the recovery and recovery of the Achaians: Amurrium, Laudio, Urduña, Arziniega, Aiara, Atardodo, Okndo, and Arncudiga-Zollo is our natural region, sociological region, though the books of Geography say something else. As you know, it is one of the most important districts of the Arabians, a district bordering on Biscaia and Burgos, and in those fields which have a range of three hundred miles square, we live above 340,000 inhabitants. But what makes Aiaraldea special are not its geographical limits, nor its orography; what makes her special is that relationship, that coexistence that exists in this skualde. El potoli pie Therefore, if this region has been able to endure the passage of time and evolve under the coexistence of these two productive sectors, let us ensure that this coexistence endures, advances, modernizes and does not die. We wouldn't say that the American industry is about to die, but we can't deny that the remudations of this area have been serious. The crudely added value which is produced in the region comes less and less from the manufacturing profession, and consequently the weight of industry in the Arctic region is less and less, for the sake of the third sector. In fact, several of the companies have been closed for the past few years, they've been delocated, or they're living with serious problems, and we'll give you a few examples: Aceros of Ladion, of Noth, of Arakul, of Vibe, of Laudi, of Lao, of Lao, of Ardubia, Transportes Acha; Kider; Threr, Somolos, Urduña. All these companies are closed and there are only a few examples. Beast taken batzuk egoera larrian daude: Lidlek Laudion duen installation, Langraiz Okako Llanos polygonora mugituk da, éta, ondorioz, hor lan egiten duten 200 personsonaren etorkizuna zalantzagarria da. And it is that the closures of so many companies in this region have not been the only source of destruction of employment or of precariousness and uncertainty among citizens; the flight of capital, investment, generates and continues to generate frustration, because of the incapacity existing in creating employment, and shows this is the last example we have just set, that of Lidl. Another reason for the destruction of employment is the arrival of capital from certain financial groups outside the region, financial groups without roots, without any attachment, to the area, who do not hesitate to abandon to their fate the workers of the companies that sponsor, as long as they have the least of the problems. Y el region And what about the ERTEs. The more than 1,000 workers of Reunited Tubes have been suffering a few during the past few years, following disastrous economic management. More than 1,000 employees who have been subjected to intermittent unemployment on non-productive grounds. ERTE subject to minimum control or monitoring by those who grant them. Moreover, there is one of them even, lately, that has not even been fulfilled. That's the picture of American industrialization, this is the situation. And thanks to this difficult situation, more than 1,000 jobs have been destroyed, only in respect of direct jobs. To which we ought to add indirect jobs, because we cannot forget that large companies need external jobs or supplements to make production, and if big falls, small companies and lots of autonomists go out. We cannot deny that this region had a great dependence on industry. We've taken the photograph of the industrial situation, and we've got to put it under the consequences. And the most terrible result of post-stunization is poverty and social crack. That's why in the East there are historical degrees of unemployment and poverty. The rate of unemployment is one of the highest of the EAEs, for instance Amerion and Ladion, from 14 to 14, and much higher between the young and the women. On the other hand, according to certain indicators, the area of the AEEEE which has one of the highest grades of poverty, the income of most of the townships of the townships is inferior to the average of the autonomy community, and the differences. As the saying goes, they are still more obvious between men and women. And while it is true that throughout my speech I have made reference to jobs, we cannot forget that behind those jobs, a job, there is not only one person, there are families. Families that sometimes depend on this one wage, or that it is also essential; because, although there is more than one income in that family, these incomes often come from precarious wages. Let us not forget that, today, employability is not synonymous with welfare, because there are many poor workers. Eta argi esan behar dugu porezia-maila altua ez datorela egun battik beasta, razo struktural baten aurrean gaudela, bere garayan garaile izan zen eredu produktiboa desagertu egin dellako, éta honen aurrean ez da sorreu eredu aldizkakorik. We have tried to visualize the economic and industrial situation in Aiaraldea; we have talked about its consequences, and now it is up to us to find solutions. And that is why EH Bildu again puts on the table of this House, the same alternative we proposed for the regions of Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea. We believe that it is urgent to create a paper that analyses, together with different social, economic and trade union actors, the socio-economic situation of this region, in order to seek solutions and to reverse this terrible trend. Poverty, unemployment, relocation of businesses, lack of investment and loss of roots in the industrial sector must be addressed. And in order to find solutions, we need a long- route strategic planning. You have to set the new or renovated sector based on the tip-point technology model. In fine, what we seek is a suitable productive model, an advanced industry, an engagement between institutions, and a social participation. The work we propose is based on these four axiss. It is necessary to draw up a shock plan with immediate measures to curb the socio-economic drift of the region and a long-term plan as well. A strategic plan that bets on an economic and industrial model adapted to the times. Adapted to the 21st century. And these proposals are both those that EH Bildu and the groups supporting the Government have wanted to reflect in our compromise amendment. It has been easy to reach an agreement, I have to say, because from the very beginning there has been a willingness to negotiate. And now we only hope that the rest of the House, as non-amending groups, will adopt this amendment unanimously. And, in that agreement before you, we reflect the need to strive and commit multilaterally to reverse this situation. We propose the creation of this paper, which, in addition to addressing the evolution of the industrial fabric, also takes into account the development of the primary and service sectors. This last part is particularly relevant in our region, as I tried to explain at the beginning of our intervention. And finally, we're looking for solutions. Solutions that will result from this prior analysis and lead to an inter-agency plan agreed with the institutions and actors involved in this region. Let us hope that Aiaraldea will cease to be the forgotten region, because today it remains so in many ways. Let us hope that the result of this presentation will not take so long in time as the decades of immobilism that are still suffering today from the construction, for example, of the section of the Saratxo road in the A-625. Or before the construction of the Markijana and Basaurbe scrubbers. And if this special region has been forgotten by institutions, then today the East deserves special attention and needs it from the parliamentary and the funk. All the efforts to strengthen the country are necessary, as well as the impenetrability of the institutions. We believe that the agreement we've made is a blessing. Thank you, Mr. Tellegio, for having the opportunity to get to an agreement, and, as I said, we hope you'll accept this half-way with one mouth. That's all; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u61	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning again and welcome. The Basque Socialists share, with the spokesman for the initiative, the opportunity to discuss the needs and problems of the Aiara region, although we did not agree with some of the statements made in the non-law proposal, nor with the comparisons made with other disadvantaged areas of recent treatment in this House. We therefore welcome the agreement reached with the proponent of the initiative. The Basque Socialists, on various occasions, have appealed to the institutions in the last legislature, requiring to focus on the need for an impetus from the Álava Foral Diputación and also for an interinstitutional political agreement, for the recovery of the Ayala region as an industrial and economic reference in Álava. And, little by little, over time, they have been able to face with effort and tenacity also important actions, which have undoubtedly had positive effects, but also, without a doubt, there is work and work to be done. The demands of the people who live and work in the Ayala region have always been part of the socialist proposals, which we have put forward throughout this municipal and outlying legislature, which now ends. For the Socialists, for example, it was necessary a plan of basic infrastructures that contemplated actions in the collectors and in the depurator of the Nervion, improvements in the centers of the elderly, the recovery of the Lamuza Park as a special protection zone, the improvement of sports infrastructures such as the polysports of Llodio... A mobility plan was needed, prioritizing the improvement of public transport in the municipalities of the region with Gasteiz, in addition to the intercomarcal, and improving connectivity with the hospitals of Bizkaia; also accessibility to neighborhoods and areas, as well as to public infrastructures that posed a complex accessibility by the orography of the area. The Basque Socialists also proposed an economic recovery plan, in which, through consensus with the economic and social actors and with the Basque institutions themselves, they sought, among other measures, investments in the municipal slaughterhouse of Llodio, the enhancement of the forestry activity for the energy-industrial use, to promote the Ayalese municipalities as spaces of special commercial and tourist attraction, working also the scope of the primary sector, in conjunction with tourism, and even to promote the Txakoli Route with determination, in line with the agreement adopted last October between institutions, wineries and companies, to which the Vizcai localities of Orozko and Orduña have joined. An initiative that takes place after the district authority has taken over the management of tourism in Ayala, following the dissolution of Aiaratur, in which private companies and public entities were integrated. And, with that same spirit, but with the management centralized in the gang, the diffusion of the gastronomic and landscape richness of the Aiara region has been assumed. The Aiara region also had community participation work: the participatory process of the Aiara group for a sustainable future until 2025 has also had a sustainability plan for the period 2010-2016; it has had a strategic plan 2010-2016; the Upper Nervion region also had a participatory process on its sustainable future in 2025, culminating in a strategic action plan in 2025... That is to say, a series of works, reflections, joint ventures, in which both the Foral de Álava and the Aiara Quadrilla themselves participated economically at 50%. And, from those works, inter-institutional actions and interventions have emerged, which have made it possible for the Aiara team to have the highest budgets in its history, both in the area of waste and in employment and tourism, among others. For example, public interventions have focused on promoting employment, encouraging business initiatives, promoting aid in the areas of trade, activities and infrastructure for the elderly, improving water and service infrastructure, among other things. The regional entity has also assumed, as I told them, the management of tourism after the dissolution of the entity that had public and private enterprises. And therefore, as a region, Aiara may have problems, no doubt, just as we expressed it in the first point that we had raised with the Basque Nationalists and the Basque Socialists, before Bildu's initiative. But we could not regard it as a disadvantaged area or area, in terms of what the European Union considers to be disadvantaged areas. Indicators that were applied a while ago in Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea, to form and form the paper that dealt with industrial and socio-economic matters, were not applicable to the Aiara region, because they were not in the same terms considered by the European Union. Indicators of poverty, unemployment and gross domestic product are data used by the European Union itself to include these areas called disadvantaged areas and to promote European aid and funds for economic and social regeneration in the areas in which it operates. But this was not the case in the Aiara region, which, as I say, does not stop having problems, but we could not simultaneously equate what was the presentation of the Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea region with the problems of the Aiara region and the surrounding municipalities. That is why we agree – and satisfactorily agree – on the amendment we have had with Euskal Herria Bildu. An amendment also reflects the proposal made by us Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists to set up a paper to study and analyse the socio-economic situation of the regions of Aiara and the municipalities of Orduña, Orozko, Arrankudiaga and Arakaldo, in which, with the opinion of institutional, social, trade union and economic agents of the area, the current socio-economic situation is addressed, in order to propose actions that promote economic diversification, the evolution of the industrial fabric towards the format of industry 4.0 and the development of the primary and service sectors. Furthermore, we believe that measures are needed to encourage the modernisation of the current tractor industries. And we also agree that the presentation proposes, after due analysis and reflection, the lines, objectives and criteria necessary to draw up an interinstitutional plan for the reactivation of the region, widely agreed between the institutions, so that it can be developed with them, with the agents of the region and with all those operators in that area, following the guidelines of what happened in the presentation of analysis of the situation of Margen Izquierda, Zona Minera and Oarsoaldea, a series, as I say, of resolutions that promote this economic and social regeneration of the Aiara region and the surrounding municipalities. And, therefore, under other defining parameters of the situation analyzed, such as the tendency to ageing of the population of that region, the lack of a young population or the lack of power of attraction of the population from other regions and also from the reflection on the importance or not of the loss of the area dedicated to agriculture, or whether the investment in innovation is adequate and relating all that information, taking into account the social and economic situation, formative, housing, also of the areas that the region and the surrounding municipalities have, in this presentation we can propose actions in the short, medium and long term, which will undoubtedly benefit the region itself, the neighbours itself and benefit the future of that region, which I hope is a future, indeed, prosperous, because in this we are also going to engage the Basque Socialists. That's all, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u63	Mme. head of the table. Everyone, good noon. I know that the goat always throws up the hill, and therefore, I will not disappoint and I will start with a reflection of the 2015-2020 Rural Development Plan of the Cantabria Alavesa region and that says, regarding the regional indicators, the following: "As for economic data, although the municipal reality is very different, it can be said that the region has more positive job creation data, for almost all sectors, than those of the whole of the territory of Alava and the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. "The sector with the most positive evolution has been the primary one, although somewhat inferior to the evolution of the territory as a whole, followed by the tertiary one. And the worst evolutionary data, although not as pronounced as in the rest of the territory, is presented by the construction sector, followed by the secondary." And it goes on: "However, the evolution of per capita GDP is certainly negative, far above the whole of Araba and much more than for the whole of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, having lost in two years a part of the wealth created by the companies of the region". In the 2015 Eurostat data, the per capita GDP of the region is 105 % of the Basque Autonomous Community, very similar to that of Goierri, which was 106, although lower than that of Rioja Alavesa, which was 176 %, and the Great Bilbao was 98 %. To give you a contextualization of what region we're talking about. The unemployment rate depends on who looks at it, because it uses very different variables and, although currently, according to Eustat, in Euskadi round or is a little below 10%. But, to make comparisons, the format used by Lanbide has been used, while in general gives higher figures, they do a district and municipal study of unemployment, which does allow us to make a comparison. Thus, in the region of Aiara we are told that unemployment was 12.27 % at the end of 18, having dropped by 1.2% in one year, evolution, by the way, when in Gasteiz it was 12.67, in Margen Izquierda 14.89, in Rioja Alavesa 11.73 and in Alto Deba by 8.4%. According to Lanbide, the unemployment rate recorded in January 2019, four months ago, Araba had a 12.3%, Llodio a 13.6, Amurrio a 14.4 and Okondo and Artzinega a 10%; that is, all these heavy data, cognacs, all these percentages, more or less close to a reality, indicate that the Ayala region, with its internal differences, can present some higher data in terms of unemployment compared to Euskadi, data in no case spectacular as to describe as remarkably differentiated, while, in terms of GDP per capita, it is in an intermediate position; that is, production is balanced, but unemployment is somewhat higher. All this is not to end by saying that there is no need to work to improve that data, for nothing, and that there is no need for a specific paper work of the region, for nothing, it is simply to contextualize a reality, that, being somewhat different from the Euskadi average, we should not necessarily consider it as alarming; it may be worrying, albeit less, above all, seeing that macroeconomic variables tend, little by little, to be restored. It is true that the economic crisis of 2008 damaged a significant part of the region's productive fabric and that it is struggling to recover more than in other areas, placing it in a delicate situation in the face of possible new economic challenges. For this reason, and understanding that in much more sensitive cases, such as Ezkerraldea and Oiarsoaldea, it was possible to make an extensive and comprehensive presentation, which allowed it to be concluded with unanimous agreements, which in turn have enabled the administrations to establish a support plan, because our group has always made it clear that it is positive to open a presentation for Aiaraldea, which allows it to do something similar in order to be able to implement a plan, which, as far as possible, helps to accelerate the changes in order to improve the economic situation of the region. Regardless of whether each municipality has quite different macroeconomic rates, the region depends, as there are other cases in Euskadi, on a small number of large companies and a flu from any of them is a pneumonia for the region, and that is really a risk. But, regardless of whether we make a presentation and, if necessary, approve a plan, the Basque Government and the area are not waiting, and are already working on developing new projects. Thus, according to Eustat, in 2015 the percentage of companies with more than 10 employees with innovation in the Cantábrica Alavesa region was 43.2%; by the way, the highest in Euskadi, ahead of the Duranguésado, with 41, when the average in Euskadi was 37.2. Now the data has just been published, last week, for 2017, and now it is 39,5 %, somewhat lower, but still placed in third place in the ranking Everything has come down to something, but it is not, I insist, at least as far as innovation is concerned, a region with very specific needs. At the same time, the Basque Government itself, in an effort to support a more accelerated development of the region, has succeeded in introducing the municipality of Laudio into the Indartu programme, which will undoubtedly entail much more aid to the industries of the municipality, while already working for a long time in dual vocational training both with Tubacex and with Reunited Tubes, without forgetting the effort to support the investment that has been devoted to the wood sector, very important in the area, and to the large projects supported from the area of rural development. Although the data we use always refer to industry, our amendment has intended to propose a global approach to the socio-economic reality of the area; that is what we have provided since our amendment, and thus to be able to address a more global recovery acceleration programme. I mean, a region that's costing something more to recover from the past crisis but that's doing a job to achieve it is a living region, with its own capabilities, and I hope – our group hopes – that, with the launch of this paper, it will be possible, if possible, to collaborate in accelerating this process, which must arise more internally than anything else. And the transaction... I am grateful for Mrs Blanco's words, which I am returning to you, but the compromise has been simple, because it seemed to us to be absolutely normal, either even, or very well, to narrow down an area of Basquedi with certain specific problems, without particularly dramatising, in order to work together with institutional and social actors who know her well, of course, to try to reach concrete conclusions among all of us and, with those concrete conclusions, to be able to address a programme. That is why, simply because of that, it has been easy to reach an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the round of teams that have no corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. lópez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The parliamentary group EH Bildu proposes to make a presentation to analyze the socio-economic situation of the regions of Aiara and Nerbioi. We in the People's Group are going to vote in favour. From the first moment, we were clear that a presentation about this region seemed very interesting to us. There would probably have to be a map or a programme of presentations for different areas of Euskadi, so that we know them, so that they do not come here only when they have problems, but to know the potentials of each region. And that is why we, from the very beginning, were in favour of this presentation. The argument to justify the presentation was based on three aspects: the unemployment rate; it said that of the highest in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in Amurrio and Llodio, which exceeded 13%; it spoke of the depopulation, and also of the threat of the relocation of companies, which is permanent. If we look at the unemployment rate and the depopulation, and if we look at Amurrio, because at the moment we are at an unemployment rate of 14.5% in March 2019; but, for example, in 2013 and 2014 we were at 17% and, Mrs Blanco, you were a parliamentarian in that legislature and did not seem to you, did not get the attention, the unemployment of 17%. I can tell you that the working population in Amurrio, from 2007 to 2018, has increased by 17% in the last 10 years, but it is that the total population has increased by 4.7%: it has gone from 9,632 to 10,114, and the working population that you made me look strange, which is what Lanbide tells me and we will believe Lanbide, in 2018, is 5,232 and, in 2007, was 4,336; therefore, it has grown. If we go to Llodio, we also look at the unemployment and population rate, since in 2012, 13, 14 the unemployment rate in Llodio was 19.9%, 19.9%, and EH Bildu did not think it appropriate to call a presentation. I say it so that it is recorded; I do not tell you what you have to do, but it is so. In 2018 we are at 13,9 %. The labour force in the last decade has increased by 13.1%, and the total population remains stable, at 18.300, 18.500, 18.400; there has been the last decade. If we go to Ayala, the unemployment rate in 2018 is 8.1%; in 2012 and 13, it was 11%. The labour force in the last decade has also increased by 16 per cent, and the total population has increased by 11 per cent. Artzinega, unemployment rate 2018, 10.3%; 2012, 14.1%; neither caught their attention. But the labour force has increased by 18% in the last decade, and the total population has increased by 12%. If I go to Rioja, which was spoken here of Rioja, in March 2019, Oyón has an unemployment of 21,5 %, Labastida of 15,5 %, Lanciego of 14,5 %, Lapuebla of Labarca 14,4 %, Moreda of 10 %, Elciego of 10 %. Can it be seasonal? It may be seasonal, but these are the data at that time, a month ago, of unemployment. It does have the highest GDP; but, listen, unemployment data in some locations are striking. He was talking about the relocation of companies, and here he has a lot to do with business competitiveness, industrial competitiveness. We are in the data age; today everything can be measured with data and numbers, also competitiveness, and companies put in their big data cocktail maker Of course, Spain on that map is that it does not appear, does not appear, and Ayala a little less; it does not appear even with magnifying glass. In Spain we have a problem, the high price of light, the rise of the minimum wage, the fiscal pressure, the cost of production and relocations, of course. And we continue to have problems with the productivity of industries; they continue to grow below the countries with which we compete. Therefore, we are not competitive. This is a problem that comes from afar, that we do not solve and if, as I said, we add to this the proposals for, for example, raising the minimum wage, increasing the tax burden – we have already been told another increase in the tax burden, a tax burden that increases the profits of companies – or continue to tax their production costs, as relocations will be inevitable. We are delighted to participate in this presentation; let us hope that it will be productive. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Our group, like the other groups that have spoken before me, is in favour of studying and analysing the socio-economic situation of Aiaraldea and Alto Nervión. And we are also in favour of including the municipalities of Orduña, Orozko, Arrankudiaga and Arakaldo, after seeing the transaction, and we were already considering them. How can you stand against this initiative? How can you be? We're not against this and we're voting for it. But we vote for the side, and the question is not whether it is or not, but the state of the region to which we are to examine, and the report which we are to form, and which we shall use for the purpose. For, after all, the most important thing is not to form ponciation, but what measures will be proposed, and which of these measures will be made. The question here is not whether we are in favour of creating a paper for a region. Let's say, more or less disadvantaged of Euskadi, but why we are going to make this presentation, and why we are going to benefit from the opinion that comes out of it. Is it going to help us improve people's lives? That's what we have to think about. Creating a paper is good and even better if it's done in a pre-election campaign; it's important to create a paper, but it's not enough. I would also say that it is even insufficient, if the result of that presentation and the result of the opinion is what we have had with the presentation of the Left Margin and Oarsoaldea. If the Basque Government sees this opinion, if the institutions with this opinion do the same as they did with the other opinion, and believe us, not a shock plan as Mrs Blanco has said, but a plan of little shock like the one they did with the Left Margen, we will be doing nothing. The compromise that has been reached talks about the economic diversification of the primary sector, of the services sector, of analysing the evolution of the industrial fabric, and that is important. Industry 4.0 is being talked about, and it's important too. Let us keep in mind, however, that Industry 4.0 refers to how the industry of the future is going to produce, but not what it is going to produce, and analyze only the issue of Industry 4.0 without asking what our industries produce and without asking ourselves that in the Aiaraldea region there is an industry that manufactures 80% of its production for the oil industry and employs 2,000 people, if we only analyze how it is going to manufacture, we may be doing a partial analysis. Mrs Blanco said in her speech that employability is not synonymous with well-being, and I would like to focus on well-being. How is the well-being of a region measured? Because here there has been some kind of debate between employment data, labour force data, gross domestic product data... To our group, the gross domestic product seems to us to be insufficient to measure the well-being of a region; but, while it is true that Mr Telleria has mentioned the gross domestic product of this region as a reasonably healthy region – let us say – from that point of view, I would like to remind Mr Telleria that municipalities such as Ayala are in 73% of GDP, Artzinega in 64, Okondo in 69 and Orduña in 43% of GDP. Orduña does not reach half of the average wealth of Euskadi. But this paper is going to analyze the socio-economic situation, and I in the transaction only see economic analysis, and not social analysis. Because, if we analyze the welfare of the population, we will also have to refer to health, education, housing, transportation, dependence... The people of the Airaraldea region demand a regional hospital. We have a school in Llodio with more than 50% immigrant population, with a situation of obvious segregation. We don't have social housing throughout Aiaraldea. We have to analyze transportation, dependence... Do we have enough residences for the elderly? We must, therefore, consider the social development of the people in order to improve the life of the inhabitants, and thus decide how we shall improve the region and the life of the region. And in this, the most important, the essential... it is to examine the institutional paper. It is up to us to see what is the role of the institutions in this area, what has been and what is the role of the institutions, because our country has a very broad self-government, and that self-government has endowed us with several institutions: we have the Basque Government, we have the deputies, we have the Government of Spain, we have the municipalities, we have the joint ventures... And the question is what role all these institutions are playing to improve people's lives. And I will give three examples of the difference between institutions cooperating or competing with each other, that institutions talk or that institutions turn their backs, as is sometimes the case. We have the issue of transportation, and we have a municipality like Orduña that is an enclave within a laves territory: Orduña gives Bizkaibus service and, however, does not give ÁlavaBus service to reach Vitoria, for example. We have, for example, residences in Llodio and Orduña. We have residences in Llodio and Orduña. Are the institutions talking about whether there are free places in Llodio or Orduña, for citizens who are not from that territory? We have one sewage treatment plant, Markijana's and the other, which have been standing for 20 years, because the institutions are not able to agree to build them. We have raised, less than two months ago in this Parliament, the possibility of a management order between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to speed up the construction of these scrubbers. Why aren't the tools that self-government gives us used to improve people's lives? Therefore, the objective of this paper, beyond analysing the socio-economic situation, will have to be, on the one hand, to assess whether the role of the institutions is what it should be, what it would be expected in a modern country and, on the other hand, the question of the social aspects that complement the economic aspects in order to arrive at a complete analysis. A valley, such as the Upper Nervion valley, such as Aiaraldea valley, should not have any geographical or administrative barriers. What you must have is bridges to unite the people who live there. And institutions have to do their best to build those bridges, and then agree between them on who pays the bridges. But the question is how we improve people's lives, whatever their administrative neighbourhood. Let's get to it, and surely, the neighbors of Aiaraldea will do much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mrs. Blanco, representative of the EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u69	Yeah. With your permission, Mr. President, from your seat, especially to Mrs. Corcuer. Mrs. Corcuera, we're at a standstill between an election campaign and the next one. The election campaign for the municipalities and the outlaws begins on the 10th, and has come down to make us a list of things that you Basque socialists have done in the region. It'll all come. Even so, we should review the results of all these actions; because, if not, it would certainly not have been necessary to create this paper. PNL has spoken very little; Aiaraldea's photograph, almost nothing. All he has done is read the compromise amendment. Mr Telleria has had the temptation, but it is true that in the end he has focused much more on our proposal, I would even dare to say that he has been much more empathetic with the region and the situation in the region. We could also have made a stock list. Note that in that region we govern in some municipalities. In others we are in opposition, and we also do several things, but we have not done it because we believe that today it did not touch; it was not the day. Regardless of what you do, what we do, and who the rest of the groups do, what is clear is that you need that talk. So, let's get out of the way, and let's focus on the solutions, which is the important thing. I must tell Mrs López de Ocariz that I am grateful that she has made a list and that she has reviewed the work of this Member of Parliament or of EH Bildu in Parliament. Not everything is speeches, not everything is Parliament, not everything is Eva Blanco or EH Bildu. EH Bildu is much more, and we have done a few actions in different institutions from the government and from the opposition. So don't tell me that I didn't care much about the 19% unemployment rate in Laudio; because, if I didn't care little, you least, because you didn't bring the paper then or bring it today. Mr Becerra is only told that the socio-economic situation is being addressed. It's collected in the transactional. Even so, when the time comes for the presentation, we will try to focus it on where we think we need to focus and seek, above all, solutions, which is really what we are worried about and what we share with you. I would like to conclude by re-emphasizing what we have adopted, that unanimity today, and let us hope that unanimity will also be reflected when the work of that paper is completed. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u71	If I may, the president, from the seat, because she did not intend to intervene. But, as I was surprised by Mrs Blanco's speech and allusion, I would like to make some consideration. First of all, you have given us some kind of electoral class today. I believe that, as students who are – on some occasions, advantaged – I was certainly not going to miss the opportunity of what my colleagues in that region, in the Foral Diputación de Álava and also from the very surroundings of those municipalities adjacent to the Aiara region have been working and fighting. Because it is true, Mrs Blanco; I have not lied on any of the issues and, therefore, if you have been disturbed, the truth is that I am not sorry and I do not withdraw it either, because it is the truth, and the truth will be able to hurt you because I do not know what kind of goals you would have today with your initiative. I just wanted to show that there was empathy with the problems and needs of the Aiara region on the part of the Basque Socialists and on the part of the Alavesian Socialists, and that is what I wanted to make clear and it seems that you must have understood the message although you did not like it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u73	Eserlekutik... Very fast because I didn't intend to intervene either. In any case, it is true that this is already stained by a certain pre-electoralism, both since the proposal that is brought: a proposal presented on December 18, is expected 5 days before the electoral campaign begins to discuss it. And, of course, Mr Becerra, man, if you intend to recover the jet of votes you have lost in that region in the generals facing the municipal, the truth, instead of coming and criticizing everything that does not have this transaction that we have arrived at, all that is missing, all the evil that has been done, because I have only tried to say it is simply that, in fact, you may have some more problems... I've talked about the region globally, if you want we speak municipality to municipality, but we would have to make a presentation by municipalities, surely. In any case, I've come to bring that; not to breast-feed anything at all. But, if you really wanted what you are going to vote on today – I think you are – to be done otherwise, instead of waiting for today to say it, to have tabled your amendment and to have worked on it and to have done it and to have written down all that you tell us is missing in the transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The representative of the Basque Popula team will not speak a word. And together Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u75	Well, don't be careful, Mr. Telleria, of course I will, I will when the presentation is made. I have merely warned of the difficulties created by the constitution of a paper. One thing is what is signed, and I said that we are going to vote in favour of this, and another is the questions that will come out or not come out in that speech, and I liked to hear Mrs Blanco that we will not limit ourselves to what is written. What is written is very good to vote on; the question is what will come out of it, and of course there are a number of shortcomings: not all municipalities have the same deficiencies; not all municipalities are in the same situation. I have limited myself to making it clear that, although global data are not bad at all, there are municipalities that are worse, and there are issues within municipalities that are well that also need to be improved. For my part, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u76	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put EH in the vote, the Euskal Socialists and the Eucabertians, the middle-point that has been signed by teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u77	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as it was made by parlamentary groups, was to promote the commerce of the place and its neighbour. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Bollain, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u78	Thank you again, Madam of the Parliament; hello again, all of you. Elkarrekin Podemos presents today an initiative from a conviction, that local commerce, that of the neighborhoods of our towns and cities, is the one that really generates society and generates community. In these times when neoliberalism goes against all the collective, against all the community, with that struggle of all against all, public policies directed at the trade sector are also crossed from this neoliberal perspective. Let me give you a clear example. I have spoken, on many occasions, of Eibar, but today I will do it again. Eibar, 27,000 inhabitants, a local trade that agonizes; he spoke, about two weeks ago, with a recently retired woman who was running a shop in the center of Eibar, with fixed expenses of 3,000 euros per month, and this is totally insurmountable for local and proximity businesses in a city like Eibar, even more so when, in view of this reality, we have a 10-storey English Court, a huge Mercadona and an Eroski, two smaller Eroskis, a day and a Lidl, which has kept its space small and opens another larger. And let us not be misinterpreted, for we are not against the great surfaces; much less. But we do believe that we must defend and strengthen a local and proximity trade, which gives life, which gives joy, which gives quality employment in our municipalities. But we also firmly believe that the role of trade should not be to promote consumerism or events designed for a consumerist purpose, but that trade should serve to make those products and services available to citizens for life, in its broadest conception, including also the environmental and ecological perspective. While we are concerned about the economic activity of trade, we are also concerned about the redistributive impacts that exist both between trade in large trade areas and local trade, as well as the redistribution between work and those who have ownership and management of this trade. Today, 2 May, after the International Day of Workers, we must remember that the struggle that trade unions and workers have waged in defence of their rights also affects support for small trade, which makes it possible to have better wage conditions and better living conditions. And I repeat that it is not for this reason that we must oppose the large areas, because they are spaces that also generate employment in an important way, perhaps in proportion to a lesser form than local trade, but these large areas have to exist in a controlled way, in order to meet the specific needs in a proportionate and balanced way. However, and as with almost everything, the policies that are implemented today favor the big ones more and harm those that are not so great. In short, they harm the defence of small trade; they harm the defence of living, friendly, multifunctional towns and cities, commercially fair, socially equitable, culturally diverse cities and, above all, generating local employment. Because local commerce brings life to neighborhoods, towns and cities; full of people and full of movement to public spaces; it gives, in short, a personality of its own to the urban. But it goes beyond that, because it also offers local products, with a solidarity economy, strengthening short-distance consumption circuits and, of course, much greener. For this reason, our initiative aims to influence both the environmental impact of large areas and to help boost that local trade, that trade that ultimately creates a community. But this whole perspective, which certainly much of the parliamentary arc we share, is in conflict with a reality that needs to be corrected. Different Euskadi trade associations have quantified the impact of the crisis on local trade, the loss of 5,600 commercial establishments, most of them small, and 15,000 jobs. Among the different causes is the fall in wages and the purchasing power of wages, which is also the result of the crisis and labour reforms. Large-area policies and e-commerce itself have undoubtedly also had a negative impact on our local trade. As part of a solution that must be more comprehensive, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we propose the creation of a tax on large areas, which seeks to correct the environmental and social impacts that they entail. We also propose this as a way of redistributing resources, so that the market power available to large areas is, in a way, offset by intervention in public policy that does not ruin local businesses. Therefore, we propose that the resources collected through this tax, a tax designed – as I said – for such businesses to pay an extra amount for the negative environmental and urban impact that they generate, be allocated entirely – all the collected – to the promotion and strengthening of local and proximity trade, through a support plan carried out with the participation of representative organizations in this sector. As many of you will also know, we are not inventing anything new. This tax is nothing new and, at present, this tax is in force in communities such as Nafarroa, Asturias, Aragón, Catalonia, Canarias or La Rioja. It is certainly also known to many that employers in large commercial areas have a legal barrier against this tax. However, both the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Court endorsed the implementation of the tax. In the case of the Supreme Court, for example, in a judgment signed on 19 September of last year, in 2018, it was stated that "the purpose of displacing on establishments established as large areas the negative effects that they generate on the environment, such as on the territory and the urban trade plot that their activity generates, constitutes a constitutionally legitimate object". That is, that the tax brought by Elkarrekin We can here today, through this non-law proposal, does not violate the right to freedom of enterprise. And I'm finishing up. I would like to focus on three ideas that support our initiative, which I have already commented on: Firstly, the tax on large areas is a concrete measure to support local trade and the proximity of our towns and cities. Secondly, there is no legal impediment to its implementation. Very important. Thirdly, its collection – which may have some relevance, around EUR 8 or 10 million – is completely legal for policies that boost local trade and jobs associated with it. And I'm done, because it may seem that local trade, proximity trade, is something small in a world of globalization, but power is in small things, and it's in the hands of each of us to be able to activate it. The superpowers of small things are those that allow us to build a future, with an act that looks as normal as deciding how and where to consume. Therefore, I ask you from this rostrum to build a future, to defend our local and proximity trade, and to support this non-law proposition among all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Collect Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u80	Yes, good noon again. Well, in just reciprocity with the argumental line established by Elkarrekin Podemos, I should say now that I am going to abstain, that I am going to abstain because I do not like the moment when the initiative is brought. But I'm not gonna do it. I am going to abstain; but not for the moment, but on a substantive point on which we differ, which I have already transferred to the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos and which I am now going to clarify to the whole House. We think that large tracts of commerce ought to have particular taxes, and we are on the side of the establishment of this tax. We think that we need more resources to strengthen the small trade, and that we need new funds for that, and that we have to raise that in the budget, and that we've already made a first proposal, but we don't see the connection between them. This is a complex issue, the definition of the tax proposed in the Elkarrekin initiative We can as a finalist tax, and also make a break between the supposed purpose or the alleged causes for the implementation of that tax that have to do with the environmental and organizational issues of the territory, and then dedicate the collection of that tax to a different purpose. If it is a finalist tax, it is a green tax and its fundamental nature is to protect the environment, logically, if it is a finalist, it should be for the purpose of protecting the environment and not to promote small trade. And I say, in agreement with the need to promote small trade, it seems to us to be a formula that is legally wrong and that would only lead to exposure to a more than likely remedy and a probable judicial defeat. I repeat, not by the tax itself, that, as the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos said, that filter has already passed; that is, it is legal to impose a tax on large commercial areas. It is legal, and we want it to be done and, in our amendment, we advocate it to be done, but we have a lot of doubts about the finalist nature of that tax and about using it to sustain small trade. Here I think we need to be more imaginative. Imagine we're in a trial, we're part of a trial, and there's a recording that gives us the reason. But this recording has been obtained illegally and therefore cannot be provided as evidence, has no legal validity, we cannot use it. We cannot use it, even if it morally gives us reason. And here, in this case, the laudable objective of promoting small trade cannot be used legally as a reasoning for imposing a tax on large areas, because then the courts would not consider that the object of that tax is precisely to regulate the environmental field, but would think that it is to alter competition, which for me is not sacred, but in some legal bodies of the European Union it is, and it makes legislation that obviously obliges to take care of the forms. Therefore, knowing that we want the objective of promoting small trade and knowing that we want the objective of adapting the taxation of large areas to their economic reality, what we cannot do is to establish that direct relationship between that tax and the promotion of small trade. We've made a bigger correction. We have made a correction that proposes to march on the prosecution of the three principal legs of trade. We wish to establish a new tribute for the great points of commerce, and we believe that it is morally founded, and that the arguments which are received by several established laws are already valid. We know, therefore, that we have a strong legal basis, and we know that this activity can be taxed, and we want it to be done. We want to close the gaps we first mentioned in the electronic trade, and from our modesty and knowledge that it is an international phenomenon, and that it is a very complex phenomenon, but at least to make a first approach to prevent the appearance of the electronic trade from following the phenomena as it is now, and to prevent the prosecution of inpunituency which now exists. That's what we're proposing to do. And the third leg is a small trade. The targets there must also be different. That's where it must be targets to promote small trade, to encourage shops in difficulties, and to help the sector. That's our integral planning. We will therefore abstain, not because we do not agree with the question of the introduction of this tax, but because of the form. It is a tax that we have already supported in the community of Nafarroa; it is a tax in which in that community it did not have that finalist character. Some of the parts of Elkarrekin's proposal We may be literally detached from that tax; therefore, obviously, with those parts that we have already supported in another community we agree, but that unification, that finalist character and that approach to using money for small trade seem to us to be a form error. Perhaps in the future we will be able to overcome these errors in form, if in substance you agree and you might consider making an approach of the kind of: if through the tax there is a projection of X million more collection, through the general budgets you could make a commitment – which we have already asked for in addition – to increase the resources earmarked for the promotion of the trade sector. But I understand that this can be done without legal uncertainty, or more than insecurity, without the legal certainty that this tax, if it is implemented as we are asked, would be met with a rejection in the courts. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u82	Yes, thank you, President. The Basque Socialists, together with the Basque Nationalists, recorded before this initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, an amendment in which we proposed to urge the competent institutions to analyse, within the Tax Coordination Body, taxation linked to trade, all taxation. This is something we have discussed before, with the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu. And the analysis of the various published studies on the tax on major commercial equipment, the remedies, the rulings of the Constitutional Court, the rulings of the European Court of Justice, and understanding, in our view, that the great adversary of traditional trade – I also said earlier – but also of the major commercial centres is outside our borders, governance and, in this case, the issue of taxation, we understand that they must be addressed from a transnational approach. Therefore and considering that we must start from an analysis, from a broad view of taxation, which affects trade, if we want to talk about trade, the tax on large areas, the IBI on urban trade, electronic commerce... from the scope of our competences and from our own vision of the conditions that non-taxation in sales destinations has a large commercial distribution, such as the platforms of Amazon, Google or Apple, is why we consider that our amendment made much more sense, it was more balanced, it was broader, than the proposal made by Elkarrekin Podemos. Since April 2018 – already mentioned here – the way to tax large shopping malls has been cleared by the three judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union declaring the compatibility of autonomous taxes on large areas with European Union law. And it has become clear that freedom of establishment does not preclude these taxes, since the criterion of the area of sale of the facility to determine which establishments are taxed is not discriminatory, because it does not harm nationals of other Member States. Catalonia, Aragon and Asturias were the three autonomous communities with this type of taxes that they endured until the time of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Its purpose, at that time, as they had proposed in their autonomous taxes, was to compensate for the impact on the territory and the environment that the activity of large establishments might have. Nothing to do with the issue of support for small trade; Mr Casanova said so before. The purpose of this tax on large areas, since it was an environmental tax, a green tax, is to benefit the environment itself and the externalities that certain activities such as trade and large areas may have on that environment or land management. Speaking of spatial planning, the large areas that you have commented on in the municipality of Eibar are areas that are in urban plot. Commercial areas within the urban plot, something we are debating right now among the parliamentary groups in this House, as an ideal objective to have; that is, that we do not have to move with our own vehicle outside the urban plot and therefore create environmental problems. The High Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed that these taxes were intended to contribute to the protection of the environment and to the planning of the territory, trying to correct and compensate the impact of this activity of the large commercial establishments, by the flow of traffic generated, by the contribution of the large areas to financing measures for the environment and the improvement of infrastructures. And here is – I repeat again – where the doubts and, well, the no doubts, the problems that we have in order to be able to support the initiative that Mr Bollain has explained to us in the rostrum. Another of the doubts raised by the Supreme Court to the European Court of Justice was whether the exemptions provided for by the autonomous tax based on the size of the facilities constituted State aid, prohibited by the European Union, and it has been stated that they are not State aid, and that they could only be considered if the excluded commercial establishments were in a situation comparable to that of which they are subject. And with regard to these exemptions for some activities, it should be the Supreme Court that finds that there are no advantages in selecting which commercial establishments are exempt and which establishments are not. And what activity – commercial activity, I mean – due to its lesser negative impact on the environment, should be considered as part of that exemption, as state aid or not. And the European Court of Justice considered that, with regard to Catalonia, in particular Catalonia, the rest of them are well situated, but in Catalonia the tax differentiation of the exemption is understood to constitute State aid. And another matter is the character, as I said, finalist of this tax posed by Elkarrekin Podemos. And not because we do not share the opportunity and the need to continue promoting local and local trade, with a support plan carried out with the participation of representative organisations in the sector, but because the revenues obtained from this tax on large commercial establishments cannot be allocated to specific aid for commercial enterprises. We are facing a tax on large commercial establishments by generating negative externalities on the territory, on the environment and on urbanism for the whole citizenry, by the use of the private car to be able to move... We cannot, therefore, be aiming, however laudable it may seem, to be, that this overpayment or the amount of the levy obtained by the application of this tax can be applied directly to small trade. For small trade – and we have commented on this earlier in the other initiative – there are programmes, strategic plans, master plans, solutions, aid and programmes that are consensual with the sector, which allow us to continue to drive actions to promote and promote small trade, which in fact results in disadvantage vis-à-vis other operators, such as large areas. But the whole of trade, in which the large areas are also integrated, cannot – we understand – see with an implementation of a tax, of which there is not only the tax on large areas, but, as I said before, another type of tax, and even electronic commerce, which also affects large areas, and, although it is a transnational issue, we cannot fail to have, we understand the Basque Socialists, a vision of our own. That is why we believe that it should be the Tax Coordination Body that carries out this analysis, and then it will be the parliamentary groups, the political parties and those who are in the institutions responsible for establishing certain taxes, in the outside institutions or in the case of the Basque Government, that we apply or not, depending on how we see it each, that we urge the application of that autonomous tax. And in what constitutes transnational taxes, as in this case would be the subject of e-commerce of large areas, platforms such as Amazon, etc., etc., distribution, large commercial distribution and sales companies, we understand that it should be in the European institutions where we can propose the regulation of this type of taxation and taxation to these large platforms, which are perhaps the number one enemy of the large areas and of small trade as well. That is why we cannot support your amendment, Mr Bollain, nor have we supported the first point in the proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, which, well, came to say something similar, which is also truer than more specific, but which I have already explained earlier. We understood that it was not possible and that it was better our amendment, which we will vote in favour. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Well, as a matter of fact, even today we've discussed this, I think all things have been said. But, that our position should be at least recorded, though it is in a highly telegraphic form, I mean several ideas: On the one hand, Mr. Bollain, I think there is no doubt that what you propose is legal-that is to say, to put a particular tax on the departments. This is the law which is mentioned here, and there are examples which prove that this is perfectly legal. But we think that the situation of each country may be different, and that at the present moment the legislature demands that the tax should be established by our tax. We prefer that these institutions should be examined if they put the tax on or not, and in what fashion. Then there's been a mention of the finalist too. You give him a refined purpose here, and that's not fair, and I won't go any further, because other spokesmen have correctly expressed it. And then finally, Mr. Bollain, I think and we think your proposal is very limited. That it is very limited, and even in the foregoing discussion, I have attempted to remark, that at the time of the inquiry into the state of commerce, we cannot examine and look at it in a partial manner, but in a general manner, considering that the appearance of digitalization and honestline commerce has at present a direct influence upon all that is in the commerce of the place, or in all the shops of the place. We see, then, very limited in this sense, and we will not accept it. On the other hand, the correction of the EH Collector, yes. This is considered, and also a third point; but, as I have discussed, at the very present moment, we think of what our institutions ought to do. Check this possibility, see if we can put a particular tax on the department store or not. In advance, and from this moment forward, we think it's too much for us to rule. We're not against each other, we're not on our side, but what we're asking for is that the organizations that concern it should be examined with all its complexity. And, well, that's the spirit of the text we've represented in 'NuralAld, Socialists' and so on. It limits nothing, for we talk of commerce; not a small commerce, not a great one, but a whole of commerce, and all that lies in it, and what we demand is that we should consider all this reality without first conditioned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u84	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. The team that hasn't announced any correction, the Basque Popular, Lord Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is, Mr Bollain, you've introduced us to something a little strange. And I say it is rare because the title is "relative to the promotion of local and proximity trade", and there is no proposal that affects both local and proximity trade. Your proposal is, at least, contradictory, because it tells us that the first measure is "to create a tax for large areas, to tax the concrete economic capacity manifested in the activity and traffic developed in commercial establishments", which you know and I know is called corporation tax, which is already taxed. They're already charging him. And he also says "because they cause massive displacements as a result of (...)". Yes, yes, but you the taxable fact that you intend to tax is something that is already taxed, which is wealth, the benefits that you get... are already taxed. There's already a tax on them. And I am not going to explain to you what has already been explained to you by other speakers – in particular, Mr Casanova – of the difference between an environmental tax that imposes contaminating, not wealth, and then the purpose, which, as you know and I know, final tax revenues are taxes. You pay for the service provided by the Administration, and that income is final to pay for that service. And everything else that is collected, no matter what tax, is generic, and then the government in charge is going to apply it exactly wherever it wants, no matter how much you say it's finalist, because that, I'm sorry, is so. Another thing I wanted to tell you is that, in this case, the Tax Coordination Authority... It is very good that everyone thinks, but this is a so-called autonomous tax; it is a tax that, if it is to be created, it is this Parliament that would have to create it, it is not the outside parliaments or the general assemblies. Its competence is the agreed taxes, not the unagreed or newly created ones, and therefore it is not necessary for the OCT, as the Government proposes to us, to study in the OCT anything related to the creation of a new environmental or non-environmental tax, which of course there is a capacity to do so; another is whether it is desirable or not, or how it arises. And so, with this..., that's why I told him that it was a very rare thing, because theoretically it is to favour retail trade: there is no measure to favour retail trade; it aims to create a tax that already taxes the commercial activity of large areas, and then label it environmental, but the purpose is not for the environment either. Which makes it weird what you've introduced us to. In any case, I do have to tell you that, if you are in favour of retailing, you do not have to raise money out there for the Basque Government to apply it to certain policies. The Basque Government already has enough money to implement these policies. If, however, the Basque Government fails to comply with its own extension law and the nominative subsidies it had for retail trade are charged and not applied, then we should not be supported by the representatives who support the Basque Government saying that they are very much in favour of retail trade. Because that is what is happening today, today, in this Basque country. These are measures to promote retail trade and those partial and nominative amendments that have been adopted and are in force under the extension law, the Basque Government is failing to comply with them and is not implementing them. That is the responsibility of the Counsellor to sit there and she is the one who has the capacity. You don't have to create taxes to... No, with the money we already have, let it be applied to favour small trade, retail trade. And, of course, what do you want me to say? But I also disagree a little with Bildu there. It is clear that electronic commerce is the one that does the most harm to everyone. But I also have to tell you one thing: if you're in favour of retailing, what you have to do is convince all your neighbors to buy at the store downstairs, because everything else is birds and flowers and it's fine. But if people go to large areas or buy over the Internet, because as you will understand, the product can come from any site, less from the store below. And that's a responsibility. Instead of saying so much that we support small trade, we actually buy in small trade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u86	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u87	Thanks again. Esaten zuen Casanova jaunak mugatua zela ekimena. Baina esan dut hasieratik hau part of an integral solution, but we have brought a part, which is an environmental tax that imposes on large areas. We haven't brought the whole solution, but that's what I said from the very beginning. Much has then been said, and most of the debate has been in the finalist or non-finalist character of the tax. Frankly, we believe that allocating the finalist tax collection has no problem in this regard; it has no legal impediment. And the approach, moreover, that this may or may not be legal, this fit, this approach... is something that will be the responsibility of the executive bodies. Mr Casanova, Mrs Corcuera, I do not know how without legal literacy they can judge and say that this would not be legal or that this would be illegal, because we would also enter into the finalist environmental character. I believe that this environmental finalist character in the initiative is clear. I think it is really clear that it is about reducing the movement of vehicles and going to support a trade that has a short circuit as a priority. Isn't there an environmental character there? Environment where do you keep it? Reducing vehicle traffic and targeting it for a short-term economics circuit isn't that an environmental step? And then, Mr. Casanova, on the thread of finalism or not finalism, I sent him a proposal where he didn't say it was finalistic. Where he said "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the outlaws to encourage the collection obtained by this tax to be directed towards the promotion of the small and proximity premises". That's a political demonstration. Do you not want this tax to be levied on local and local trade? That's a demonstration. Mr Damborenea said it very well: that money goes to a common box, and then the government in charge chooses where to go. So, we can make a political demonstration that that money collected through this tax is destined for small local and proximity trade. Another thing is that you do not want, for example, to sign with us this transaction in which it is clear that it is a political manifestation. Mr Damborenea, we have brought in measures for small local trade, that with this money a plan will be made to support and promote the small locale and proximity. That, I think, is quite a large measure, when we talk about millions of euros. For example, in Catalonia in 2017, EUR 14.8 million. A plan – let's say – not of 14, but of 10 or 8 million euros to support small local trade, I think it is good enough to start. In Asturias, the collection: 5.2 million in 2017; in Aragon 8.7 million. I don't think we're talking about small amounts. And then I saw how also for the Socialist Party the great problem was the finalist character of the tax, but we see in Aragon the PSOE will tax the large areas, in Murcia the PSOE the same: "With this tax on large areas could be collected more than 8 million euros" [orri bat irakuri du]. [orri beats irakurri from]. Let's support point one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mr. Casanova, representing EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u89	Yeah. Man, Mr Bollain, you tell me that you did not say in the compromise proposal that it was not a finalist tax. But, minus the word "finalist," it describes what a finalist tax is. I am absolutely clear that we must try and impose a tax on the large areas, because it is necessary, because it is possible and because it is convenient. I am not hiding there, and it is true that I have said that the finalist character could generate legal doubts and could generate more harm than advantages, because this law or this fiscal development could be immersed in judicial matters, which, sooner or later, would eventually bring it down, and that it is much safer to go the separate way to get to the same place, because we agree on the same site: that it is that large areas pay taxes and that more money is spent on trade. What we did not understand was that association, which, in addition to being legally questionable, is of any point unnecessary, and therefore, if it were essential we could risk it, but we can declare, on the one hand, that the tax is being imposed and we can declare, on the other hand, that more resources are being allocated to trade. In fact, in the next full monograph, to which we have already referred throughout this morning on many occasions, we will bring all these issues, and there it will indeed have to be portrayed. It is true that our group has given a formal reason, although on certain substantive issues we agree; others what they have done a little bit is to hide, that they like to get wet less than a cat, because it is not about taking this to a tax coordination body and seeing what they tell us, because it is a subject of great complexity. This is the Navarra law [orri batzuk astindu ditu]; Another issue is that of electronic commerce, and it is true that, with all humility, it must be acknowledged that there are issues that are very complex and that there are in front of them, therefore, no longer financial advisers, but genuine financial engineers intended to make these companies pay as little as possible, or nothing if possible. It is true that the tax coordination body could be asked for some kind of study, some kind of approximation, without prejudging whether it will be possible or not to swell the tooth to the question, but from the manifest will to do so, and that this Parliament also has, in addition to other functions, the political will of the groups that make up it. And I would have liked the groups that make up this House to express the will that electronic commerce should have a more effective taxation and that they would have expressed the will, as our group and also the proposing group in this case, that the large areas should have a more adequate taxation. And we have the instrument and we have the legal hook. When environmental reasons were called into question... This has passed the filter; that is, it is no longer a question of being more papists than the Pope. If we want, we can, and the European Union has determined that these environmental reasons exist, and it has determined that it is possible to consider large shopping malls as elements not as they contaminate directly through emissions, but with their own activity they generate "externalities". That is what was called, in one of the proposals, a series of energy consumptions and a series of occupations in the territory, which actually represent an environmental damage that can be assessed by means of green taxation, and that is what we are asking here. What they're not going to leave us is this: you ask for money from large areas to give it to small businesses. That is not going to leave us, because it is against the services directive and it is against the philosophy prevailing in the European Union, which we may like more or less, and I do not like in these aspects of the sacralisation of competition, but it is the one that is currently in force and it is the one that will determine whether what we approve here passes the legal filter or not. Por dot, we are wet: We have said what we think, and what we think is, that this tax must exist, that it must be divided, and not have a refined nature; but that it must exist; and of course it will suppose a increase of the collection of money, and we think that it is good and positive. We think that the small trade requires more resources, and in this case, as far as the prosecution is concerned, its advantages and its always well-kept leaks of legalties, but it requires its necessary protection, and that the electronic trade cannot continue in the limbo at the present time, and at least we must undertake it. That's what we think, and that's what we did. But unfortunately, today's proposal was asking us for certain connections and confusions that we thought inappropriate, and which would be suspended if we tried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Corcuera andea, Euskal Sozialistak.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u91	Thank you very much, President. I understand that at this point in time talking about taxes, the truth is, it's kind of hard to swallow. But that, well, I'll try to be brief. Mr Bollain, cutting and sticking sometimes has consequences like the one you brought us here today. The improvise now the "listen, so throw me some point, see if I get out of this story." It's just that there's nowhere to take either point 1 or point 2. The first point, because you want to tax economic capacity, and you can't. Can't-can't-be-can't-can't-can't-can't-can't-can't-can't-can'! And on the second point, you say to me: no, you will have read wrong. Man, what do you mean we've read wrong? Finalist character, uh, the tax on large sales areas "that is finalist in nature, and that the collection is intended to promote local trade and proximity, through a support plan carried out with the participation of representative organizations in the sector". Come on, you've come to give it even to the triquiñuela to see where, by breaking a break, we come to catch the proximity trade here to help you. You said: of course, you are telling us that this is illegal, that it is..." Look, no, no. Not illegal or anything. Look, Fernando López Pérez, who is a professor who has a certain prestige in this matter for what he has been studying, says that "the ambivalence of Catalonia and Asturias in the object of the tax (both environmental protection and the defense of small business) distorts that tax and the computer extrafiscal purpose of a conduct". And that is why "the protective spirit of small trade has been banished, for which specific programmes must continue to be put in place for its impetus and development, for the value they represent in economic activity". Therefore, teachers have, at last, the Church...; apply them, for here it is, and, if you want to read and if you are interested, there I have given you the name. Mr. Casanova said, "Man, it is very clear what we want, what we would like..." Yes, yes, no, quite the opposite, but you would like your initiative to come out first, and the amendment now. Listen, no, what are we going to do to him? Well, he didn't come out. So we are not to blame for the others, and less for the government groups, because, of course, you want to give some wood to the friends of the opposition but neither does it come out much. Let's see if we give it to the government, when the government in these is very clear. We have said this in your initiative at the first point; we say this at the second point: it is the tax coordination body that can or we want to analyse this tax because it has capacity, as Mr Damborenea has acknowledged. It has the capacity to say, analyze and reflect on what a tax is, or taxation is better said, what is the taxation of trade, because there is a multiple variety and range of taxes that have to do with trade and those that are not being talked about here today or at least we have passed them by. It is therefore not the fault of the Government or this humble Member of Parliament that his initiative has not come out today, that his proposal does not come out today, or that we vote separately or that we vote together. It's just there's nowhere to take it, really, Mr. Bollain. I do not want to make wood from the fallen tree; but it is that, really, your two proposals are actually modified, turning them around like a sock, or if it would not be impossible to get in to make some proposal like the one you proposed to us. And I repeat: this is not a government flight. Today there have been very clear commitments on the part of the Basque Government. Today there have been commitments on finance, on trade, and I believe that they have not been achieved to date in all the legislatures – at least two legislatures have not been able to achieve these commitments. Therefore, there has been a proactive attitude on the part of the Government, to accept certain considerations, following the initiatives that you have presented. I don't think it's like a cat running from the water or anything like that, Mr. Casanova. There have been commitments. Another thing is that you don't want or like it today, and until the day the municipal elections pass, recognize it. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Bollain jauna, yes, indeed; it is a tax that is legal, and we have said so. And in that sense, there is no doubt. What happens is that what you propose is something extraordinarily limited. Not only because of its purpose, but because, solely and exclusively, what it claims is that large companies are grave, when our proposal – and in just reciprocity, if you wish to be fraternal, I ask you to vote for ours – although it is shorter, we think it encompasses much more than yours, insofar as it takes into account an aspect that we have undertaken in the previous debate this morning to try to underline and highlight, that one of the great challenges, not to say the most important challenge, that small trade today is the Internet, and the position of consumers in relation to the purchase of products and services. And it is, in fact, a trade, online trade, that escapes the Basque tax administrations, and we think that that's what you have to go around, you have to go around, to see, well, how you can deal with that. Our proposal is therefore more complete. The OCT. Yes, absolutely agree, Mr Damborenea, it is not a concerted tax. However, since there are various tax administrations here, with a system and a methodology of collaboration and cooperation, regardless of whether it is then one or the other – in this case, yes, the Basque Parliament – that would have to carry out that tax, we find it interesting that the other tax administrations participate in the reflection. That's why we say "analyze" and we don't ask the OCT to establish anything, because neither does it, but, well, it would be the general meetings, in their case, etc., etc.... So, that mating. And complexity comes, well, not only because of the tax itself, but because in Navarre there is only one tax administration of its own; instead, here there is more. And from what I have just said, we think that sharing all these ideas, reflections and strategy, regardless of whether it is then one or the other that has to apply it, seems interesting to us. Therefore, bozkatu gure zuzenketa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u93	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. And finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u94	I do not know whether our position is clear that we are not in favour of the initiative put forward by Mr Bollain. Nor to the one presented by Bildu. Although we do understand that, of course, electronic commerce has to be taxed exactly as the rest of the trade, whether electronic or not, we hope that the Chambers will do their job and enforce the tax rules that we already have. The OCT. See, the Tax Coordination Authority, of course, is to coordinate outsourced tax administrations, outsourced finances. And, of course, to talk about trade taxation, it is an appropriate body. It's a proper organ. Now, when we are talking about creating a new autonomous tax, that Mr Bollain cannot tax a tax fact already taxed by state regulations and by the local, that is, this is a first requirement to create an autonomous tax and you want to tax the wealth generated by the large areas, and there you fall everything. That's where he drops everything. Second. You were telling me that in Catalonia they have collected... Listen, much less than the amendments we are proposing to increase the Department of Commerce, more than two and a half million euros that the Basque Government is not implementing, which is currently failing to comply with the tax-free budget extension law. More than two and a half million for small trade, and today it is failing. And the commitments of the Basque Government that Mrs Corcuera was telling us, for we hope that they will be complying with her own budget laws and implementing them, and the nominal trade items that will be fulfilled and that will go to the traders, as was provided for in the law, which they are not doing. And, man, to the Basque Nationalist Party that proposes an amendment to insist on the competent institutions to analyze, within the OCT, the taxation linked to trade... I, without much analysis, if they are so concerned about the self-employed, if they are so concerned about small trade, propose that the IRPF be lowered from the self-employed and traders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u95	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as suggested by the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 11. The contrary, 46; white, 0; abstainments, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u96	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the differences 18; the contrary, 46; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u97	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists vote for the total correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 37; the contrary, 11; white, 0; Abstation, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-02.u98	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and thirty in the afternoon.
