ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u1	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, today is eleven years after the brutal terrorist attack in Atocha, El Pozo and Santa Eugenia, which claimed the lives of 192 people. On March 11, 2004, he shocked all Spaniards and will always be in our memory. In memory of the victims and united in pain to all their relatives, relatives and friends, I pray that we keep a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen, standing up, keep a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u2	We begin with the questions to the President of the Government. He asked, first of all, Mr Alfredo Bosch, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u3	Does the Government consider it appropriate for the eradication of child poverty to be the €2.25 per poor child spent in Catalonia through the corresponding fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Bosch. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u5	Thank you very much. If that figure were true, Mr Bosch, it would seem absolutely inadequate, fortunately it is false, and I can say that despite the difficulties we have experienced in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole over these times, we are a country that we have managed to make the Spaniards able to lead a dignified life, sometimes difficult, but always dignified. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u7	Do you know what's going on, President? That I don't tell him, everybody tells him; everyone gives him earshots. It is said that Unicef, which states that more than a quarter of the child population is in poverty, that insufficient efforts are being made and that there is a need for a protection system as they do in other countries, which have succeeded in reducing child poverty. It was said five days ago by the European Commission in its report, in which it stated that the EUR 17 million - which is the figure they give - that they allocated to child poverty in 2014 are clearly insufficient, and they tell it that they are regressive policies that penalise or punish families with the lowest incomes. That is what they tell him, and they also tell him that Spanish society is unfortunately the leader in child poverty in the European Union, and that is the problem. Hey, can you really commit to fighting child poverty? Can you devote, for example - proposed - in this exercise the Contingency Fund to child poverty instead of spending it, as they do every year - EUR 1.7 billion each year - to buying arms, to military spending? Can you dedicate it to child poverty? It's possible, it's done elsewhere. Mr Rajoy, I ask you to speak with your heart in your hand, I ask you to be sincere, to say what you think, to say what you feel. Does it seem to you that enough is being done against child poverty? Do you think he's doing well or doesn't care, or does he come in through one ear and come out through the other? What a sad pity, Mr. Rajoy! What a sad pity! [[Pronounce words in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bosch. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u9	Speaking of phrases, Mr Bosch, the Zero Poverty campaign, which brings together more than 4,200 organisations in the field of social action in Catalonia, issued a statement last January saying that it does not see any progress in the fight against poverty and inequalities in the Generalitat budgets for 2015; these budgets were supported by its political group. I will tell you what we are doing on an issue where, precisely because it can be dramatic, it is appropriate to be equal and act wisely and to put aside the demagogy. I want to make the following considerations. The first is that the main factor that explains child poverty is parental unemployment, so the most important policy in this area, as in many, is to make an effort to generate employment in our country and end unemployment. Fortunately, substantial progress has been made in 2014 and I hope that between 2014 and 2015 a million jobs will be created in our country. Having said that, what I have just pointed out is not enough at all, and that is why we have done more and we are prepared to do whatever is necessary to improve the situation of children. We have approved a social inclusion plan, that plan to which you refer is endowed this year with 32 million euros. In addition, a concerted plan for social services and local corporations worth EUR 27 million. We have allocated more than 600 million in this parliamentary term and 40 million euros to the Food Payment Fund for social programme grants from the IRPF. The FLA and the Provider Payment Plan also serve the health, education and social services of municipalities and autonomous communities. We have created a new funding mechanism, the Social Fund, for municipalities to take care of social purposes through agreements with autonomous communities. We have approved a specific fund for families in special difficulty. We've extended the Preparation. We have signed with the unions an extraordinary program to train people so that they can work. We have agreed on social emergency programmes, aid to the Social Housing Fund and a great deal of effort has been made in the area of income tax. Much more can be done, and we will do what is necessary, but it is not fair to say that this problem is not addressed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACIA I ARAU, IN SUPPORT OF DON JOSEP ANTONI DURAN I LLEIDA, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT PRIORITIES DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE IN INDUSTRIAL POLICY? [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001230]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u11	Question posed by Mr Pere Macias of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express our emotional solidarity with the people of Madrid, today being 11 March, a sad memory. Mr President, getting out of the crisis requires industrial policy. Europe wants 20% of all countries' GDP to be generated by industry. We've lost a million jobs. You know, Mr President, the effect that industry has on other economic sectors. Recovery will only be sustainable with industry. This was formulated, in other words, by our spokesman in the debate of the State of the Nation, where we heard many disqualifications and few proposals, and, in fact, no response to our spokesman in the field of industrial policy. That is why we have redrafted some of the most relevant issues which, in our view, should govern industrial policy. Let's deal with four issues. Firstly, we are going to talk about promoting innovation, being competitive in energy, reducing logistics transport costs and a tax policy that attracts industrial investment. In some industrial sectors, such as the chemical industry - that of Tarragona and other polygons throughout Spain - they are very concerned about these aspects. Mr President, with regard to energy policy, our industries are not competitive with an energy reform that has only been done for budgetary reasons. In the area of innovation, between 2010 and 2015 public investment in innovation has fallen by 50% in the budgets, and this is not welcome at the moment. If we talk about logistics and transportation, two issues. Authorization of vehicles with more cargo capacity: in Portugal, 60 tons; in Spain, 40. How are we going to be competitive, Mr. President? If we're talking logistics, the Mediterranean corridor. According to you, it was supposed to be operational by February 2015; the works still have to start. If we are talking about fiscal policy, we have just withdrawn investment aid for environmental modernisation. Europe requires us to apply best available techniques. What do we do to help the industry? We've withdrawn your help. The industries, Mr President, are going to leave. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to fine-tune your focus on industrial policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u14	I join your initial words, Mr Macias, and the initiative of the President of the House. I agree with you on the importance of industrial policy in generating economic growth and employment. We are also talking about a sector that, as everyone knows, generates stable employment, generates skilled employment, concentrates most of our exports, 80%, is very important in the R & D & I activity that the private sector carries out and is associated with a large volume of activity in the services sector. You are therefore absolutely right to say that industrial policy is very important in our country. What have we done all this time? Firstly, all the necessary reforms, and also those that we will do in the future, have as their fundamental objective industrial policy. Labour reform is useful for industrial policy, it is also useful for energy reform, financial reform and the return to credit, the market unity programme, the tax reform that we have put in place. I could quote many others, but in addition to this, because of its specific nature, I would like to refer to the agenda for strengthening the Spanish industrial sector. These are more specific measures that contribute to the improvement of the business environment in which the industrial productive fabric develops its activity. There are many concrete measures; financial support measures, industrial investment measures, programmes for sectors such as cars, such as naval, such as aerospace. The PIVE, the PIMA, the Food Chain Act, rules on ship financing, shipbuilding, R & D & i aid, aeronautical sector have been launched. Important decisions have therefore been made for an industrial sector that is growing now and is being useful in creating employment in the Spanish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT CONSIDER THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S IMPLEMENTATION BEFORE THE INVESTMENTS OF THE LAST WEEKS HAS BEEN THE ADJUSTED? [[File number 180/001220]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u16	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, do you consider your management appropriate to the effects of the Ebro riada?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to begin by transferring my solidarity and support, and that of the entire Government, to all those affected by the events that took place last week, as I did last Friday in the city of Zaragoza. From the very first moment we have worked in a coordinated way with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities, with the Civil Guard, the UME, the police, the firefighters of the parliament, the staff of the General Council of Aragon; all have lived up to the circumstances. Technicians have also done essential work in the area of reservoir lamination. The government has been there. Already on 11 February, before the events took place, the Vice-President met with several government delegates. On Friday, the 27th, the president of the General Council of Aragon was in the post of advanced command and visited all the municipalities. We spoke with the government of Aragon over the weekend. On Sunday the Secretary of State for the Environment was present; on Monday, the Minister of the Interior and, on Tuesday, the Minister of Agriculture. Throughout the week we prepared the royal decree to compensate for the damage and I was in contact on several occasions with the president of the community. On Friday I presented to the mayors of the affected municipalities the measures agreed in the royal decree-law that we studied in the Council of Ministers on the same day, and we also propose to start making decisions to try to prevent - which is not easy, because this is not the first time that it happens - these serious events will occur again in the future. As it is natural, the ideal would be that such events would not have occurred, but I believe that what had to be done was done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, last March 6th, when you visited the city of Zaragoza in a hasty way, you summarized in a single sentence your philosophy of political action; you said: I go where they take me. You said that textually: I go where they take me. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem. The problem is that we have a president who doesn't empathize with people's suffering. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u22	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u23	We have a President of the Government who does not know where he is going; and what is more serious, ladies and gentlemen, we have a President of the Government who is neither interested nor interested in the suffering of the people. [[Rumors]] That is why you have not yet met farmers or farmers or the affected neighbours and neighbours of the Ebro River, which are not only in the city of Zaragoza, they are all over the province of Zaragoza, Mr Rajoy; and they are also in Navarra, La Rioja and Castile and León, and they are waiting for you and your Government, Mr Rajoy. The fact is that there are some things that your Government could have avoided: for example, the inaccuracy in the flow of the river; for example, the systematic cuts in all that has to do with public investments in the maintenance of the river channel; and also the failure to pay the compensations, as you still have the payment pending for all those affected by the floods of 2013, although that must be the usual tonic on the part of your Government, because it also happens with other compensations, for example in Puerto Lumberas or in the Lorca disaster, Mr Rajoy. Now you present a real decree fast and running which is clearly insufficient. [[Rumors]] I will tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, President of the Government, Mr Rajoy, in that laugh you have left many things ahead, and one of them is your credibility as President of the Government, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] Yes, you hide every time there is a problem and, therefore, you have refused here to answer the questions that have to do with the Gürtel plot and that involve your party directly, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] Yeah, yeah. But do you know what the problem is? The problem is that while you are silent, we have a Minister of Justice who fears and threatens the investigating judge of the Gürtel, we have a Minister of Finance who does not cooperate with justice and use the Tax Agency in a partisan manner. [[Rumors]] I ask you one thing, Mr Rajoy: as President of the People's Party, have you paid the 245,000 euros in bail required by the National Court for the Gürtel plot? [[Rumors and Protests]] Stop hiding, come here to the Congress of Deputies and assume your responsibilities as president of the People's Party... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u24	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr President, I remind you that you are only obliged to answer the question on the agenda. [[Protests]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u25	I will do so, Mr President, and I will not ask Mr Sánchez for an explanation for the 850 million EREs in Andalusia which we have not yet known in this House for what they have allocated, nor for the more than 250 defendants who have occurred, nor for the lack of an explanation by the President of the Andalusian Board. [[Applauds]] [[Protests]] I will not talk about that, I will talk about what you did when you went to Zaragoza. It was there when the government had already gone. He went there to criticize everyone: the President of the Government, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of the Environment. It gave the feeling that he went there to see if he was fishing anything. He wanted to withdraw the question he asked me here today because he saw that he could no longer do anything. He forgot to tell the whole House that great works such as Yesa and Biscarrués had stopped, that they would probably have avoided many of these problems. [[Protests]] Actually, the feeling I have, Mr Sánchez, is that you should not campaign at the expense of people's suffering, nor should you disallow technicians. [[A honourable Member: Bravo!-Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mrs López i Chamosa utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors and protests]] Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa, I call you to order for the first time. [[Rumors]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President COORDINATE THE GOVERNMENT'S ACTIVITIES TO GUARANTEE RESPECT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF OTHER POWERS OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/001221]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u27	Question from Mr Antonio Hernando, from the Socialist Group, to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, I am going to read you two recent newspaper headlines: Hacienda rebels in front of Judge Ruz and The Minister of Justice already threatens Ruz's substitute: if he is not independent he can be refused. What I want is for you to give us your opinion as to whether these statements are respectful of judicial independence, or whether you consider that the Ministry of Finance is cooperating sufficiently with the Administration of Justice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. The separation of powers is guaranteed by our Constitution and it is the Constitution and the laws that determine the form of relationship between the two, both the causes of challenge and the content and extent of legal aid. Mr Hernando, respect for the separation of powers must be maintained from the Government and from the other powers of the State, you too should remember that when you answer this part of your question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u31	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u32	Madam Vice-President, I remind you that it is I who is asking here and the answer is you. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, the value trials are fine and I respect them, but I prefer to refer to the facts, and in fact I will talk about their respect for judicial independence. The secretaries of the governing chambers appointed them by the Government of Spain, following a report by the National Court, the High Courts of Justice and the Supreme Court. The term of office of the Secretary of the Government Chamber of the National High Court is soon to be completed, which is a key position because it coordinates all the judicial secretaries of the National High Court and passes through their hands key information related to the political corruption of some political parties. For this reason, the Ministry of Justice last January 20th went to the National Court to present four possible candidates for such a replacement and ask him to report on them. The National Court, unanimously of all the members of the Government Chamber, reported in favour of one of the candidates. [[The Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, speaks quietly with the Minister of Justice, Catalá Polo]] - Yeah, ask him, ask him. It turns out that this report should not have liked the Ministry of Justice. He didn't like it because they're very nervous about what's going on at the National High Court. That's why they sent a letter telling him that they didn't want a report on four candidates but on one candidate. This is the letter of shame, the signature of the Secretary of State of Justice, that is your superior and you are the person who coordinates the action of the Government and gives the orders. [[Show a card]] The National Audience has been ratified in the report and in the candidate, you can now appoint whoever you want; you may or may not answer this question as you normally do, you can even blame whoever wants to, but you, Madam Vice President, are guilty of this disaster. [[Rumors]] Madam Vice-President, I do not ask you whether this letter seems pretty or ugly, what I want you to tell me is whether you believe that this defachability is respectful of the National Court and the independence of justice. [[Show the letter again]] Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u33	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thought this question was a dialogue, but you don't like talking and you don't like giving lessons much more. [[Mr. Hernando Vera shows the letter again.- Rumors]] As far as I know, the secretaries of the House of Government do not exercise jurisdictional functions, Mr. Hernando, but if you want us to talk about how we respect each other's judicial independence... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u35	Please, be quiet. Mrs. Ramon, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u36	Mr Hernando, perhaps you should give your fellow Members a little more play to talk about when they have questions and not when we are answering the others. [[Several Members: The letter!]] Mr. Hernando, you will be appointed Secretary of the Government Hall to whom it corresponds by law, but, as I was saying, since you are so sensitive to the errors of the Government, I would like you to comment on me later... [[Mr. Villarubia Mediavilla: Here, here!]] , in corridors, which is where you usually do it when you don't win in questions, what do you think of these statements. [[Several Members: The letter!]] If you believe, Mr. Hernando... [[Rumors]] Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I see you very excited, but I'd like to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u37	Wait a minute, Madam Vice President. Please, she's talking to the vice president and she's answering a question. [[Several Members: You are not answering]] When you are finished you may express your pleasure or disenchantment, but when you are done. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u38	What would you have said, Mr Hernando, if that letter had said: Precisely on the day that the United Left militants were voting yes or no to a coalition government with the PSOE, the judge coincides that arrest with that fact - words of Pedro Sánchez - and after saying that the judges are also subject to criticism? What would he have said if that letter - written by Mr. Chaves speaking of himself - had said: The car of Alaya roza the prevarication? What would I have said if that letter - according to Susana Díaz - had said: There were too many coincidences between the cars and the elections?, or - Susana Díaz, two -: The judge with this kind of actions again interferes in an electoral campaign. What would you have said, Mr Hernando, if the Justice Councillor of an autonomous community had written in that letter - the election tique, Mr. Susana Díaz -: I do not share the judge's decisions, but she is very beautiful? [[Rumors.-Mr Hernando Vera again shows the letter.-Several Members: The letter!]] Look, sir... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u39	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Let us continue with the questions, I pray that there is respect for one another. - of Mr Rafael Larreina Valderrama, in replacement of Mr Jon Inarritu GARCIA, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the Minister of the Interior: Is it the Government to correct the denial of asylum to the Saharaui Hassana Aalia citizen? [[File number 180/001200]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u40	Question to the Minister for the Interior. The proposal is made by Mr Rafael Larreina of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the young Hassana Aalia is a Saharan activist and pacifist sentenced to life imprisonment for having participated in the peaceful protest Gdeim Izik, convicted in an unjust trial. Several international agencies that were observers in that process have publicly and unanimously denounced that the procedure followed in the trial of this military court was fraught with irregularities and that it did not have the minimum guarantees to consider it a fair trial. His ministry had refused the asylum application submitted by this young man and ordered him to leave the Spanish State, but in that same resolution they acknowledged that he was an activist of the Saharan cause, a member of the Saharan Association of Human Rights Victims and that Hassana had been detained and ill-treated since the age of seventeen. This recognizes you the concurrence that the law establishes to guarantee precisely the right of asylum, to recognize that right; however, you have decided to deny you that right recognized in the law. Why, Minister? Explain to us the reason for this unjust resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u42	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honour, as a matter of fact, I would like to remind you of what Article 16.4 of Law 12/2009 of 30 October, which regulates the right of asylum and subsidiary protection, says in this respect. It literally says: Any information relating to the procedure, including the fact that the application is submitted, will be confidential. That is why you will understand that I am limited by law to being more explicit as to my answer. The person for whom his lordship is interested has been living in Spain since 2011, on January 12, 2012, submitted the application for international protection and last December 15, the Inter-Ministerial Commission of Asylum and Refugee issued a decision dismissing it. Once, by order of the National Court of 27 February, the person concerned was denied the very provisional suspension of the execution of the refusal that he had requested, on the grounds that there were no circumstances of special urgency justifying such a provisional suspension in the absence of an order for departure from the national territory in the process of imminent execution, he filed an administrative appeal with the National Court. We will be aware, of course, of the provisions of that court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u45	Minister, don't waste your time. You had to have resolved that request logically. I encourage you to report on the causes of the death of Mohamed Lamin Haidala in Aaiún less than three weeks ago and those of the Saharan political prisoner Abdul Baqi Aliyen at the end of January. At least nine people have died under torture in the last two years in the Sahara and countless in these forty years of abandonment of the Saharawi people. Mr Fernández, correct this decision, which is clearly unfair. It breaks the history of his ministry, regardless of who is in charge of it; a history of supporting torture, of harbouring torturers, of rewarding torturers, interns and recently outsiders. You have rewarded a Moroccan Saharan torturer who is persecuted, is claimed by French justice. Put an end to this situation, do not facilitate the work of Moroccan torturers with young Hassana. Heed what the majority in this House and in the Basque Parliament, including the Group of the European People's Party, have told you. Correct and do not put young Hassana at the feet of the horses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to his references to that French authority, he should be informed that he had recently been decorated by the French Republic. It is clear that in the administrative sphere the resolution of the interministerial commission has ended the procedure and that now, as I have said, it is in the hands of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the National Court. In Spain there is a separation of powers and we refer to that ruling. In any case, this person, if he has the conditions to remain legally in Spain, will not be obliged, will not be expelled from our country because of the denial of that asylum application or international protection that he had submitted. I would add, to make it clear, that Spain is a very sensitive country to these requests. In 2014, more than 40% of all asylum and subsidiary protection applications made in our country have been accepted, bearing in mind that over the past three years there has been an exponential increase at a rate of 30% per year in the number of applications made by other people for this type of protection. We're making an effort... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGELES ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE MINISTER THINK IT IS JUSTICE THAT THE VICTIMES OF GENERAL VIOLENCE ARE DIFFERENTLY VICTIMIZED AS A CONSEQUENCE OF THE QUEERS OF HIS AGRESORS? [[File number 180/001223]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u49	Question to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Ángeles Álvarez, Member of the Socialist Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Let's move from weird cards to weird things. Do you think it is fair for victims of gender-based violence to be double victimized as a result of their aggressors' complaints?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u50	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Álvarez, let me begin by conveying my condolences and my repulsion for the latest attacks, the latest episodes of gender-based violence that we have experienced these days. [[Mrs. Montón Giménez: Murders]] In this context, as you can imagine, no Government - nor before - will ever be in favour of the double victimization of women or, in particular, of gender-based violence. All the policies we are carrying out are precisely in the direction of the protection of victims and, under no circumstances, to their revictimization. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Allow me to describe the situation to you a little: tried where, because of prejudices towards the victims, there are not even appearances to decide whether or not to grant a protection order; absolutely unethical increase in the filing of complaints when only the victim's testimony is given in a type of crime in which it is precisely the absence of witnesses; tried with abnormal behaviours that are filing up to 90% of complaints of abuse; judicial protection of the complainant harassment; women victims of ill-treatment who are now in prison or on the eve of admission, whose only crime, Minister, has been to protect their daughters or, in any case, to respect their decision not to see a violent progenitor, and who are victims of defenceless and extortion in order to be pro-active and to force their children to meet the violent, and whose refusal to cooperate in this deproposion is the cause of reports that tendent to punish the victims. It is not fair for the institutions to sign agreements with organizations that train the staff of the psychosocial teams - that is within their competence - in which they are instructed - to take good care - so that psychological care for minors is authorized by the violent parent. Justices for Democracy and Women Jurists Themis have warned them that their victim status will further silence victims of gender-based violence. You must correct, through pardon, some of these misconceptions and make sense to corner those who with sexist prejudices are damaging the victims from institutions. The serious thing is that the United Nations has given you the guidelines and a guide, and you have done what you have done is not correct... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u53	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u54	Thank you, President. Your Honor, precisely with that instrument, with the status of the victim - who has had very important support in this House and hopefully also in the Senate - we will have better tools to protect all victims of crime and, in particular, those of gender-based violence, in addition to avoiding revictimization. Not only the status of the victim, as much as you have attributed yourself to defending the victims of gender-based violence, but the Organic Law against Gender-Based Violence, ten years after its adoption, is not working properly. Efforts must therefore be emphasized, resources must be provided; our legal framework must be improved in order to commit ourselves to that effective fight against gender-based violence. This is what we are doing, not only with the status of the victim, but also, for example, with regard to education, by strengthening the mandatory content on equality at the stages of compulsory education, as well as with prevention in the new health protocol in cases of gender-based violence or in the revision of penal questionnaires. The new Law on Free Legal Assistance attributes this benefit to all victims of gender-based violence beyond the aspects of their economic capacity. The new Penal Code - I trust the Senate can approve it today - also reinforces the rejection of such behaviour, as does protection against new ones, such as forced marriage, harassment and the distribution of intimate images without consent. That is what we are doing, Your Honor; we intend to strengthen our legal framework and of course to deal with particular cases. In the case of Mrs Salmerón - whom you quote - you surely know that we have been the first to express our interest in identifying the uniqueness of these circumstances. As for the pardon, it is being processed and we will have the maximum sensitivity to find the circumstances that allow it to be granted, if the sentencing court informs it favorably. In any case, as well as the Minister of Health... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u55	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IRENE LOZANO DOMINGO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE TO PREVENT Sexual harassment in armed forces? [[File number 180/001219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u56	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Mrs Irene Lozano, Member of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, made the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u57	Thank you, President. Minister, I am asking you this question about sexual harassment in the Armed Forces and specifically about the harassment and persecution of Commander Zaida Cantera not to answer me but to her, who is sitting in the rostrum. As you know very well, because I know you have been informed of the case at all times, then Captain Zaida Cantera was sexually harassed, assaulted by a lieutenant colonel; after he entered the prison he was persecuted by colonels and generally who even tried to make a case against her to put her in prison for six years. For this reason she asked for help from you; she wrote you a letter to ask for help personally, and you personally refused it. The bloody thing about this case is that the commander could be sent today to the area of operations to an international mission, could receive the order to fight and could die in that fight defending the freedom and security of all of us, also defending their freedom and security, Minister. She could die for you and you didn't move a finger for her. This is called parasitizing citizens. That is why it seems to me that it is reason enough to ask for her resignation today, unless you have some explanation as to why you ascended to the general who made the case against her, why you protected all the commanders who looked elsewhere while she was being harassed and why, instead, you unprotected her and did not give her your help at any time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u58	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the Ministry of Defence - with all due respect to Commander Cantera - maintains a policy of zero tolerance for situations of sexual and gender-based harassment. [[Rumors]] We have as a fundamental principle equality between men and women, and it is a priority objective of this Administration to remove any obstacles that prevent its full force. To this end, and on the basis of this zero tolerance, we have acted on three different plans: through institutionalization and attention by the Permanent Secretariat for Equality and the Military Observatory for Equality; through cross-cutting training of all curricula; and through normative development, strengthening protection both in the new Disciplinary Regime Act and including the types of sexual harassment and attacks on sexual freedom in the draft military penal code now under parliamentary procedure. [[Greetings.- Rumors and protests.-Mrs.Aguilar Rivero: What about this topic?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Quiet, please. Mrs. Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u61	You have just confirmed to me, Minister, that you have in fact done nothing, so I ask you to cease your office immediately. [[Applauds]] I have just confirmed that the only thing he is capable of doing is adding lies to the ignominy suffered by Commander Zaida Cantera de Castro, adding lies that are even louder and more indignant. Dimit, minister, is the only worthy thing you can do because there are many Zaidas in the Earth Army, women - also men - who suffer harassment, aggression and rape; a case like this cannot be repeated again. You're responsible for it to happen and now you're responsible for it not to happen again. No one can trust you to do anything for all those people who do not have the proper channels to report institutionally safely and to make their cases heard. I make one last request, because I know that there are sadists who still want to continue to torture the commander psychologically: speed up her file, because all she wants to do is get out of that army in which she has been tortured and her vocation has been frustrated. Know that you have the support of society, there are 100,000 people who have already signed a petition... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u62	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u63	Your Honor, instead of so much imposture and so much media circus to which you are accustomed, your group could have started by supporting the bills that the Government has brought to this House and which strengthen protection against these facts. [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Rumors]] The Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces are steadfast in the struggle for equality and dignity of women; indeed, they are examples in NATO and other international organizations, in which we are a nation responsible for conducting numerous gender courses. The incidence of these crimes, which this minister and the Armed Forces deeply regret, is 400% lower than in society in general and are prosecuted, tried and convicted, because there is zero tolerance. [[Rumors]] That is why, Your Honor, I ask you to stop staining the good name of our Armed Forces in their quest for self-promotion in the sale of a book. [[Rumors and Protests]] You have quoted a disease that I had in an abject article that you have published. My illness has passed away, yours not; yours is moral lowness and is consubstantial with your person. [[Applauds.- Prolonged rumors and protests.-The Minister of Defence utters words that are not perceived, and makes a gesture of silence.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u64	Thank you, Minister. I repeat again today that I would like to... [[Mrs Lozano Sunday asked for the floor]] Mrs. Lozano, this is a valued time and there is no replica or counter-replica. [[Rumours and protests continue.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived.- Mrs Lozano Domingo asks for the floor.- Mrs Diez González asks for the floor.]] You don't have the floor. [[Mrs. Lozano: When the Questions End]] When the questions are finished there will be a chance for you to ask me the word to explain what seems appropriate to you, but when the questions are finished. [[A Member of Parliament: In an hour's time, the rumors continue.]] - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO DEPUTY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: IS THE MINISTER OF AFFECTED TO DILIGENTLY DELIVER THE COLLABORATION REQUIRED BY THE JUDGES IN THE PROCEEDINGS CONCERNED BY HER PARTY? [[File number 180/001224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u65	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. Question by Mr Pedro Saura, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope you don't shut me up. [[Applauds]] Mr. Minister of Finance, do you comply with justice, do you cooperate adequately with justice on matters affecting your political party? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u67	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not the Minister of Finance to whom the judges are directed to seek cooperation, but the Tax Agency, which is always at the disposal of justice to offer the assistance that is required in all cases, affect those affected. I would like to remind you that in 2014 the collaboration with the judiciary was facilitated by 1,409 officials of the Tax Agency, mostly inspectors and technicians of the Treasury. In addition, the agency has also provided legal aid through tax information that has been sent to the courts, answering an average of 72 reports every working day. Therefore, Your Honor, there has never been a closer, more fluid collaboration between the Tax Agency and the courts in the pursuit of tax fraud. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. A high office of the Ministry of Finance - here I have your letter - refuses to cooperate with justice and Judge Ruz. Besides, she's a direct collaborator of you. I will explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, why the Minister of Finance does not want to cooperate with justice and Judge Ruz. He does not want to cooperate because he is not enough with a tax amnesty, that of 2012, but now he wants to approve two more tax amnesty; that is, covert. It would be a self-amnesty to your own political party so that you will not be convicted of a tax offence; a self-amnesty also for you and for many senior members of the People's Party. Can you assure me that the overpayments that you paid or that you took high office from the People's Party were not funded with the People's Party Box B? In short, why does the Minister of Finance not want to cooperate with justice? Because if Mr Rajoy collaborated with justice, he would have resigned, because the Minister of Doing would have resigned already, and because Mrs Cospedal would not be Secretary General of the People's Party. I could give you more examples. In my land - I will speak to you as a batian - you are behind the resignation of the delegate of the Regional Treasury of Murcia, because you want to protect and protect again the People's Party and the delegate of the Government which is a high office of the Government, undersecretary appointed by the Vice-President of the Government, who has already been accused for a year. What happens in this country is the use, occupation of institutions for the benefit and to protect people, organizations investigated by the justice system. That's what's happening. Is that your way of understanding respect for and support for the rule of law, Minister of Finance? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u71	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Saura, respect for the rule of law of this government and of this minister is complete; it is not precisely the kind of opposition that your Office, on behalf of that parliamentary group, is doing from the first day in this House. You are not interested in how the public deficit is going and whether it is promoting economic recovery and job creation either in Murcia or in the rest of Spain. You don't care more than a subject since the beginning of this legislature. In doing so, he despises the Tax Agency, the officials of that Tax Agency, as has never been the case in this House, where I have also had the opportunity to exercise opposition. It has never been done with the irresponsibility that you are exercising from the very beginning of this legislature: disqualifying the autonomy and independence of these officials, going against the professional qualification of these officials. [[Applauds]] That's what you do. I also tell you - I have already told you several times - that no Spanish government - and I am even sure that neither the previous government - has had the capacity to manipulate the tax agency or the general intervention of the state. No Member has made such severe accusations as you have made, cursing the institutional behaviour of institutions that are fundamental to the law... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u73	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO HURTADO ZURERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: WHAT DID THE GOVERNMENT DO FOR THE REGULARIZATION IN THE IRPF OF PENSION IN THE FOREIGN? [[File number 180/001225]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u74	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, by Mr Antonio Hurtado, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u75	Thank you, President. Minister, we Socialists are concerned about the public deficit, but much more about the suffering that is causing the citizens. That's much more important to us than that public deficit that you're always gnawing at. Minister, like these you have sent 700,000 letters to emigrants returning to this country. [[Show a card]] Returned emigrants feel intimidated again, mistreated, coerced by you. Minister, many government sub-delegates - I present here the media - are publicly apologizing to the emigrants returned by these letters. [[Show a document]] Do you extend that apology from here? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u76	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hurtado, this is a matter that you have brought to the House I don't know how many times, but it has been upheld by a law; a law promoted by this government that, taking into account the special characteristics of that collective - of the returned emigrants - we have promoted tax legislation that, for the first time in our history, has condemned any kind of sanction, of surcharge that these people have had; that is to do a tax amnesty. [[Protests]] That is what we have done with that group; we are still in time to complete the refunds of the sanctions and the surcharges that those people may have had. So, Mr. Hurtado, I'm not asking for forgiveness. I have brought a law to this House; a law that - I insist - has given a very special condition to all of them because they deserved it, because they were people who could actually have a greater ignorance of our tax legislation, and we have reacted to that. At least be gallant, to call it something, to recognize what we have approved in this House, because if we do not give the impression that we are doing nothing in the face of social problems like these. Moreover, the Minister of Finance is not the one who sends the letters, it is the Tax Agency in application of the tax legislation. That is what we have changed in this Parliament in this House and we are in the specific period of correction. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u78	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u79	Minister, I'm sorry to tell you that you have not at all amnestyed the millions of emigrants who have returned with pensions abroad. You have amnestyed 30,000 suspected chorizos in this country, but not at all to millions of returned emigrants. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] Minister, you have sent 700,000 letters to people, many of them with pensions - here I have the examples - of 17 euros a month, 50 euros a month, 127 euros a month; people who do not reach the need or the obligation to declare. You have sent intimidating letters to many pensioners who have absolute disability, who are exempt from the payment of the IRPF; you have sent intimidating letters to many people who had already declared and who had been the subject of a verification file on their part. Therefore, three of the four letters you have sent - they are taking the health of many because they are enormously concerned - which are creating a huge social alarm, could have saved them; the other, which should not have saved it, too, because we have told you. You had to have returned ex officio the pardons that have been regulated without disturbing anyone, because you have the information. The same information you have for fines also has for returning the amount of unfair fines. You had to have sent out the drafts to regularize and you had to have regulated the fractionation. You're making debts, he's getting up... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u80	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. In early February, more than 650,000 letters were sent to potential beneficiaries of this measure. They are informed of the period that has been opened to regularize the situation, explain the decision to condone the possible sanctions, surcharges and interests - you have used the word condone, that is we have condoned - and specify the steps that must be taken; they are being given the ease. These are letters of clarification and, in addition, all such information has been made available on the Tax Agency portal and in a free telephone number. For those who have difficulty completing the documentation, a personal assistance service has been set up, providing information and making statements that are accurate by appointment to avoid waiting. That's all that's been done. There are 31,000 appointments in the special delegations already arranged to meet this service and more than 10,500 forms have been submitted to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u82	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIO BEDERA BRAVO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: DOES THE RELIGIOUS ADOPTION BE EVALUABLE IN THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM? [[File number 180/001226]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u83	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. It is formulated by Mr Mario Bedera of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u84	Thank you, President. Minister, three years ago you tried to prove with a false quote that Education for Citizenship indoctrinate students. Despite the scandal that was organized, you finally decided to completely eliminate the curriculum subject. However, a few days ago the Catholic Religion curriculum was published, according to which students will be evaluated about the inability of the person to achieve happiness by himself or about recognizing and understanding the divine origin of the cosmos and which does not come from chaos or chance, contents that had never been formulated in such radical terms. Therefore, I ask you if you think it reasonable that religious indoctrination is evaluable in the educational system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bedera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Bedera. In the terms in which you ask your question sincerely I do not consider myself bound and not even legitimized to answer it. The only thing that has been done about that curriculum - and you said it correctly - is to publish it. It is the only competence of the Government and the only competence that has been exercised in the course of all the years since the agreements with the Holy See in the field of education and culture were signed on 3 January 1979 by successive Governments, which in the course of all these years for twenty-two of them were socialists. They are curricula such as those signed by Mr Solana, Mr Rubalcaba, Mr Saavedra or Mrs Cabrera; in short, practically all the socialist ministers that have happened. I have told you - you know very well - that there is no more competence in this matter, under Article VI of that agreement, than to publish the curricula. Logically, what is decided in them by the corresponding religious authority, which in the case of the Catholic religion is the Episcopal Conference and in the case of the other confessions with which the Spanish Government has signed agreements, are their respective authorities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Bedera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u88	Mr. Wert, the Curriculum of Catholic Religion is an anachronism, a relic of the past that does not fit into a modern, democratic and confessional state like ours, especially in that last extreme version. You refer to other orders, e.g. Mercedes Cabrera's. I'm going to read you two or three sections. The 2007 curriculum discussed the answers to the great questions of the human being in Judaism, Christianity and Islam. There was talk of relating the great existing religions, discovering their main similarities and differences. There was talk of knowing the different elements that make up the religious phenomenon as a basis for understanding the different religions. Nothing to do with what you recently published in the newsletter. My group wants to highlight today that this is not casual. The arrival of dogma in the newsletter is not random. Denial of scientific evidence in the classroom is not random. You have encouraged and allowed all of this with your Lomce modifications, making religion evaluable, going to count for the average and, above all, having a mirror subject, Civic Values, which places at the same level common scientific and moral doctrine or, which is the same, which places on an equal footing the contents of a matter which constitute the shared constitutional principles and which govern the coexistence of a people with contents fixed by a confessional organization outside the public system and which cannot be placed in that situation purely because of constitutional imperative. This is your work and, therefore, it is you who have promoted the exaltation of dogma in school by matching religion and constitution, confusing religious functions and public functions. This is not what this Member says, this is a doctrine, but a doctrine of the Constitutional Court. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u89	Thank you, Mr. Bedera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bedera, thank you very much. First of all, religion has always been evaluable, among other reasons, because that derives directly from article VI of the agreement I mentioned earlier. Secondly, you stop mentioning what in my opinion is completely essential and I understand that it fundamentally distorts your reasoning. It is an optional subject and, as such an optional subject, it is for parents in the case of minors or pupils themselves in the case of older adults to attend or not to attend. Your evaluable condition has always been maintained. Another issue is that for a few years an exception was made regarding the inclusion of such a note for access to competitive competitions. But I tell you what I said before: international treaties, international agreements are laws and laws must be complied with. It is perfectly legitimate for you to consider that this type of content does not fit in an educational system, you have had twenty-two years to put it in another way; it does not impute to me things that in no way correspond to this minister or this government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u91	Thank you, Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GARZÓN SPINOSE ALBERTO, OF THE Parliamentary GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT ARE THE REASONS FOR WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS KEEPING THE REQUIREMENT OF PEONADAS TO ENCOURAGE THE AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDY? [[File number 180/001216]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u92	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. It is formulated by Mr Alberto Garzón of the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u93	Minister, what are the Government's reasons for requiring the maintenance of the peonadas to receive the agricultural subsidy?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u94	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, first of all, the Government of Spain's full commitment to the workers in the Andalucía and Extremadura fields. Secondly, no one, Mr Garzón, is going to stay out and everyone is going to receive the rent and the agricultural subsidy because, among other things, we have analysed this year's production and decided with the social partners to lower the fines from 35 to 20 and with that, as happened in 2013, no one, Mr Garzón, will stay out of the subsidy or the agricultural income. And thirdly, I would also like to inform you that you have never, Mr Garzón, been exempted from tax to collect income or agricultural subsidies in the history of Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u97	Madam Minister, we will not need to abound in data because you are also an Andalusian minister and you know or should know that reality very well. Only in the province of Jaén is 20% of all world-wide oil produced and 45% of the oil produced at national level; that is the data. And you also know that the olive grove sector, because of its monoculture, is practically one of the few sectors that can generate employment in certain provinces, hence the importance of the Government meeting the needs of these workers, because the fact is that this last 2014-2015 campaign is expected to be among the lowest in history. This, together with the mechanization that is logically carrying out as capitalist development the Andalusian countryside, means that workers work less newspapers and therefore cannot get that subsidy. That is why more and more families are being left out of the shelter of that possibility, which is also, of course, a right. You also know that 25%, one in four potential workers in the field, are the only ones who receive it and we are talking about a subsidy that is just over 400 euros; you know perfectly well - or should know - how difficult it is to survive with such small amounts of money. All this means that this becomes a moment of social emergency for these families. That is why we demand that the agricultural employment programme be completely restructured and that there be guaranteed to be work by making an investment, because its ministry is unfortunately second-class because it does not have sufficient funding, because in this government it has preferred to rescue banks without money and motorways without cars before generating work. If work were generated, those benefits would not be needed and we would not be discussing this issue right now. And, of course, it also takes money to restructure the Andalusian productive structure because, yes, Andalusia generates oil, but then it is of low added value, it is sent to other countries that use a bigger packaging and brokerage to produce high added value products, which leaves us in a deeply underdeveloped scenario. We need money, Minister, and you need to take action. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u98	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Garzón, in 2015 some 210,000 people will benefit from income and agricultural subsidies and 27 per cent, 56,000, thanks to the reduction of peonadas to 20 that we decided with the partners in the Andalusian countryside. In addition, the Agricultural Employment Promotion Plan is already under way for this year, with 216 million euros, which will involve more than 2,000 projects in Andalusia that will encourage more than two million newspapers to take place. Since we are in the government this programme has risen by 6.5%, much more than with the previous socialist government. But, Mr Garzón, commitment to resources with Andalusia and also responsibility. I ask your parliamentary group, which has been before the Government in Andalusia yesterday, to comply as well. Mr Valderas promised in 2013 an agricultural plan for Andalusia; not a euro. In 2013, Mr. Garzón, the Government of Spain sent Andalusia EUR 300 million for active employment policies. Why didn't they use 227 million? What were those 227 million people who could have gone to workers in the Andalusian countryside to give them opportunities, who stopped investing in people in Andalusia? [[Applauds]] And, Mr Garzón, in the rural development programmes in Andalucia, in our land, we have stopped using 1 billion of the Community funds and 1 000 more than the Andalusian Board committed in 2003. Therefore, the Rajoy Government fulfils and the one that does not comply is the Socialist and United Left Government of Andalusia. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u100	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA ON WHICH THE GOVERNMENT WAS BASED AT THE TIME TO SET [[EAJ-PNV]] THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE LEGAL COUNTRY BETWEEN AREAS 8AC AND 8AB? [[File number 180/001218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u101	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment. He asked first of all Mr Joseba Agirretxea of the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, what are the criteria on which your Government has been based in fixing the allocation of the deli or chicharro quota in areas 8aC and 8aB of the Cantabrian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u103	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u104	Thank you, President. Your Honour, the criteria for the distribution of the deer within zones 8aC and 8aB are those laid down in the order establishing the management plan for the ships of this squid. Furthermore, in order to give our sector the maximum fishing opportunities, we have used the flexibility achieved thanks to the negotiations of this government at the European Union Fisheries Council last December. We managed to transfer de jure quota from the western waters area of the European Union, which includes zone 8aB, to 8aC. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. You can say that, but we believe that what the Government has set out does not meet fair and equitable criteria. In the past year, as the Council of Fisheries Ministers has said, it has approved a mechanism enabling Portugal and Spain to transfer up to 50% of the quota in Zone 8aB to 8aC. This decision, which is in itself good news, has been used by you in a distorted way, causing serious damage to the Basque fleet. You have sacrificed the interests of the Basque fleet exclusively in order to alleviate the 25% reduction in the share of deli or chicharro, rather than to reduce to all the percentage equitably. This decision means that the fleet which fishes mainly in zone 8aC does not suffer any reduction in quota at cost if the Basque fleet, which has mostly its quotas in zone 8aB, reduces its fishing opportunities by more than 40 %. That is, they have sacrificed one fleet, the Basque only, so that another fleet does not suffer the quota reduction, and this is unacceptable. The Basque fleet, to fish 6,100 tons in 2014, this year will be able to fish 3,200 tons. Moreover, this decision has been unilateral, without consultation with the autonomous communities and much less with the sector. Be assured that the Basque fleet at the time would accept the quota transfer it had in zone 8.aB to 8aC, which would allow the quota to increase in this area of the Northwest Cantabrian, something that part of the fleet asked - we already knew - but respecting the percentages. Obviously, once that transfer has been made, and taking into account the resulting quotas for each fleet, I am sure that, as happened last year with the transfer of 300 tonnes by the Basque fleet to Galicia, the various fleets would have reached an agreement, because it is a mature sector and deserves an opportunity; it has the capacity to manage itself without the need for such interventionism concerned. It is clear, Minister, that you have taken a political decision, not a fisheries or sectoral decision; a decision which, let me put it this way, replaces the fishing squid with the squid of votes, and this is not the first time. Why do all the decisions they make that affect the Cantabrian always harm the same fleet? Why did they open the anchovy fishery in the fall? Why did they delay the verdel fishery so much? Have they tested the opinion of the sector or just the...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u107	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u108	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain to you why the decisions of the Government are good for the Basque Country and that the Government is always looking for the best use of the available fishing resources for the benefit of fishermen and their families, so we are negotiating in the European Union and we are asking for this flexibility, because we want to maximize fishing opportunities for all our fleets. As a result of this negotiation, we can transfer up to 50% of the quota from the western part of the European Union to zone 8aC, where we fish the Cantabrian fleet, the Basque. It is possible to compensate for the reduction in de jure fishing opportunities in zone 8aC, which had fallen, or had cut our quota, by 25 % and thus benefit all the cantabrian fleets. In addition, we will be able to reserve a sufficient amount of deli to be able to exchange with other Member States necessary quotas, hake, rooster, rape, of absolute interest to the Basque fleet. The zone 8.aB has reserved 2,000 tons of deli, of which 1,050 are for the encirclement fleet based on ports of the Basque Country, and this is a much higher quantity than the 459 tons caught in the year 2014 by the Basque fleet. In addition, in zone 8.aC the Basque fleet has been allocated 1,936 tons in 2015, an amount also much higher than the 1,330 that they captured in 2014. Therefore, the aim and outcome of the Government is to benefit all the Cantabrian fleets, to ensure that all Spanish vessels working in the North-West Cantabrian encirclement mode can optimize the fishing opportunities available to us, and through the negotiation of this Government and the criteria applied by the Basque fleet will be able to fish more in 2015 than it did in 2014 and to improve in quota in Area B, C and the species of interest that we will exchange with other Member States. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY SUSANA SUMELZO JORDÁN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT CORRECT YOUR POLICY AFTER THE CATASTROPHE PRODUCED BY THE DEBORDANCE OF THE EBRO KING? [[File number 180/001227]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u110	Question also to the Socialist Group's Minister for Agriculture, Food and Environment, Mrs Susana Sumelzo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, in the rostrum today we have mayors of flooded villages who can tell that you have not lived up to the needs of citizens in the face of a catastrophe like the one that has suffered many of these lands these days. You - you specifically - did not want to see them when you visited Zaragoza; you hid in an office. Neither did the Minister of the Interior; he overflew the area by helicopter. At least today, who are here, tell them if the government is going to rectify the policy following the catastrophe caused by the overflows of the Ebro River. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u113	Thank you, President. I agree with the words of the President-in-Office's support. Ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced extraordinary rainfall, which has been the largest in some areas since the record. Given this situation, the Government has worked from the outset in coordination with autonomous communities and municipalities. We've put in place the protocols for action. We have valued the damage and committed the urgent repairs; those that could be done. Last Friday we passed a decree-law by which the ministry will have 70 million euros to repair all this damage and we are already acting where conditions permit. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u115	Look, Mrs. García Tejerina, you've been acting late, bad and crawling. What will be your interest that it has been more than two weeks since the Socialist Group requested its urgent appearance to take account of the actions to be carried out and has not yet done so, and we do not even know when it will do so. It was the advance of the disaster with which they have acted in the desperation of thousands of families; the disaster for thousands of farmers and farmers and for the peoples of the Ebro riverbank, who have not yet received the aid pledged from the floods of 2013. Two years, Minister, and they haven't paid what they owe them yet. What credibility can his words now have if the investments of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation have been reduced by more than 40% since the People's Party ruled? By the way, Minister, please read the proposals we have put forward to prevent such disasters. We think they'll be useful to you. And in order to end the disaster they passed a decree that forgets the people and takes care of only a part of the administrations; at the last hour, on an express visit, they worked to sell measures to which they have not put the date of realization. Mrs. García Tejerina, stop inheriting because for heirlooms you are going to leave on the banks of the Ebro. It is too late to tread mud, but they assume their obligation and do not waste another minute to give solutions to the citizens. Madam Minister, we have heard you speak of opportunism and you do not seem to understand that talking about citizens' problems is not only timely, but also mandatory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u116	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u117	Thank you, President. The only thing that can and must be rectified is socialist water policy: policy of inaction, non-compliance and expenditure which is very difficult to explain. And we're correcting it. This government works to repair what you have done for eight years and to resume what you have not done. We have approved the basin plans - also that of the Ebro - which should have been in 2009, failing to comply with the Water Framework Directive and having led to a sanctioning procedure for Spain by the European Union. It is clear that taking care of water was not an environmental priority for the socialist government. Neither did you attend to the quality of water, also in this you failed and left sanctioning procedures open. This Government has prioritized sanitation and purification, more than €1.1 billion in the Growth Plan. We are trying to give viability to the desalinators that you promised and that you did not; you announced fifteen, with an investment of 721 million euros, but eight years later there was one in operation, that you bought built, and had spent 2 billion euros. We are also paying their debts: EUR 300 million only in the Directorate-General for Water and EUR 200 million in irrigation. This Government has ended the excessive and worrying deviations that systematically occurred between what was planned and what was spent when they ruled. We have reached important agreements in the field of water, in which the Socialist Government devoted itself to the sowing of wars; important agreements such as that of the Tagus-Segura, which benefit five autonomous communities and which, by the way, painfully the Socialists reject. We have ended the paralysis of hydraulic infrastructures such as Yesa and Biscarrués, which were eight years standing, or the Enciso, which also left standing, to quote some. You have abandoned these works and this Government has taken them back. The works of hydraulic infrastructures are not improvised and I remind you, Your Honor, that the reservoirs are essential to laminating avenues and avoiding situations like those experienced in the Ebro. For the existence of the current reservoirs, at least 800 meters... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u118	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT Satisfied with the application that is being made of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Attention to Persons in a Situation of Impendence? [[File number 180/001222]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u119	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is the Government satisfied with the implementation of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u121	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government has worked throughout this legislature to make the system for personal autonomy and care for dependency more agile, transparent, orderly and sustainable today. We have taken care of and guaranteed the subjective right to the promotion of personal autonomy and care in situations of dependency. We have done so in a circumstance that was certainly difficult. The evaluation framework approved by the previous Government was maintained and the catalogue of services and services has been improved. But in addition, and these are some of the results, we have reduced the total average time to process the procedure by forty-nine days, we have improved the transparency of the information system, we have paid the debt with Social Security that the previous government left -1 billion euros - and the system today serves 83% of people entitled to benefits and services, 12 points more than at the end of 2011. Nearly 40% of beneficiaries have been incorporated into the legislature and there are 7,000 more beneficiaries with benefits than at the end of 2011. The waiting list has been reduced by 50% and professional services have grown by more than five points; new memberships in the social services sector have increased by more than 19,000. Therefore, there are some results and now, in the year 2015 - year of completion of the implementation of the law - is the time to make a study, an evaluation, a shared analysis and be able to consensus among all a look of the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u123	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u124	Minister, there are two attitudes to dependence: that of those who pass the law and develop it, and that of those who intend to dismantle it, which is their case. This is a socialist law to care for people who need help to get up, clean up or be able to eat; this is a law that supports families, especially women, and also creates employment. But the right has always believed more in business than in maintaining the welfare state. That is why you have cut the funding of this law by more than 30%, putting thousands of workers out of work with it; that is why you have twice delayed the entry of the moderate dependents, and that is why Juana - like other 173,000 family carers - your Government has cut her benefit and eliminated her social security contribution, so that all these women in the future will not be entitled to a decent pension. His Government had reduced the number of beneficiaries of the Unit Act -- last year 8,000 fewer -- and 500,000 people were valued as dependents who were not receiving any kind of assistance. The waiting list is reduced as a result of deaths. Francisco - like another 100,000 dependents - has died without being able to benefit from the Unit Act, a law that stipulated that 50% of the funding was provided by the State and the other 50% by the communities. But in Andalusia the state pays only 25% and the board has to face the remaining 75% in the lung. His Government had cut funding for the Unit Act in Andalusia by more than 400 million, and its Government had allocated the same amount to the whole of Spain as the Andalusian Board had allocated for itself, 3 million euros. I know that you are now going to criticize the Andalusian Junta, I hope you do not do so as Mr. Monago's video. But you and I do know one thing, that Andalusia is among the three best rated communities by the State Observatory for the Unity Act. By the way, the worst valued is the Valencian Community, governed by the People's Party. And you also know that Andalusia leads the ranquin in number of beneficiaries of the Unit Law, with 163,000 people; by the way, last year, 11,000 more. Rajoy said, Minister, that this law was not sustainable and the only thing that is not sustainable is to have a bad president at the head of this country, as Mr Rajoy is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u125	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that you chose a bad subject if it was a matter that you wanted to introduce in the Andalusian election campaign: talking about dependency today in the House. I, who respect all communities and want to work with them, is not that I criticize the Andalusian Junta, they criticize the facts, and I want you to know them and listen to them clearly. One in three dependents who are awaiting benefits in Spain is in Andalusia, i.e. one third of the waiting list, because the waiting list in Andalusia is 23.6%, i.e. 7 points above the rest of Spain. I would also like to say that between December 2011 and December 2014 Andalusia has decreased the number of beneficiaries with benefits by 27,707 people. Therefore, we cannot criticise, which is also not true, that the number of beneficiaries has decreased when it is in Andalusia where it decreases. [[Applauds]] As far as I know, in Andalusia there is no different funding system, most of the funding, as the reports show, comes from the state.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u127	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SILVIA OÑATE MOYA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES YOUR DEPARTMENT DEVELOP TO COMBAT WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN' [[File number 180/001228]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u128	Question by Mrs Silvia Oñate, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. What action does your department, Minister, take to combat wage inequality between women and men?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Oñate. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, employment is the strongest platform for advancing real equality between women and men, and our first priority from the beginning of the legislature, and it remains so, is job creation. That is why 70% of the budget of the Strategic Equal Opportunities Plan is devoted to employment and conciliation. And because there are differences - there have always been and still are - in the rates of activity, in the rates of employment and in the remuneration for the same work, we are working on a special plan for equality in the field of work and against wage discrimination, which will be the first government to adopt in the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Oñate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u133	Minister, I remind you that we have been fighting for centuries for equality without gaps or abysses, without misadjustments or misconceptions, that we want real equality in time and form; so stop announcing empty measures and take action. Because something will not have been done when Eurostat data tell us, and indisputably, that the wage gap slightly improves in the European Union, but it widens in only four countries, including Spain and Lithuania. - Spain, head in pay gap. According to the ILO, in 2015 Spanish women still charge 17% less than men for doing the same job. In this legislature, Spain has fallen nineteen posts in the report on the gender gap carried out each year by the World Economic Forum, and the worst note is obtained by Spain in the area of economic opportunities, an area where the wage gap is taken into account, and Spain ranks 84 - in the last year we have lost eight posts -. Do not defend the data, Minister; do not flee from the eloquence of the data, seeking vain excuses. I look at them as if they were not with you, because your labor reform, that of your party, also increases inequalities. The number of unemployed women has increased by more than 200,000. For the first time in forty years the female labour force is falling. Spain is among the countries with the least employed women, again below the European average: 9 points; 74 part-time employed persons are women. Destruction of employment, precariousness, deterioration and widening of the wage gap. You announce, announce and re-advertise, but as long as women back in rights and opportunities. Ask yourself, your department, Minister: intelligence and strength, as you asked at the IBM company just a few days ago. Stop announcing wet papers and get on with it. Learn this mantra, Minister: on equal terms, no gaps, no cracks, no abysses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oñate. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. I should like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft of the special plan for the equality of women and men in the field of work and against wage discrimination, which is currently in the process of participation with the social partners, is now ready, and its adoption is foreseen by the Government once this phase is completed and referred to the Council for the Participation of Women. The work is therefore well advanced and we believe that it is a fundamental instrument to combat this situation. Basically in Spain the gap remains very similar to that which was three years ago - there is no great variation in the data - and neither is it a problem that only our country suffers. You know that in other countries, like Germany, the gap is greater. In Spain it coincided with a very serious problem that you left behind, which is the massive destruction of employment in women and therefore we need to be more diligent. I wonder why you did not make this plan that you are now demanding so strongly and that it will have to be done by a People's Party government. Meanwhile we have been working, we have put in place programmes such as equality and gender in reconciling work and family life, and we are helping companies to detect and correct the pay gap. Today there are more women in positions of responsibility on boards of directors; for example, their presence in Ibex has grown from 12% in 2011 to 17%, and we want to involve companies, such as the one you cited and which is an example of good practice in this area, so that gender diversity in decision-making positions is promoted and women really have a right to equality in the workplace. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u136	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S HOPE WAS ORTEGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO AVOID THE EXCLUSION OF A GREAT PART OF THE POPULATION? [[File number 180/001229]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u137	Mrs Esperança Esteve of the Socialist Group is now asking.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u138	Thank you, President. Minister, what does the government intend to do to prevent the social exclusion of a large part of the population?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteve. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the Government is working every day to reduce the number of people at risk of exclusion and to strengthen the support of families who still face significant economic difficulties today. It is a task that, as you will understand, is not easy because Spain was the OECD country in which inequality grew the most between 2007 and 2011, and the cause that was the strong destruction of employment. Therefore, the most important measure in social policy and to combat inequality is to promote economic growth with a social consequence capable of moving to the generation of employment. We have been working in this legislature to increase support for families and to support the long-term unemployed by, first, ensuring the welfare state and, secondly, preserving and expanding social benefits and, above all, creating new jobs, which is the process we are currently in. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u142	Minister, you referred to the word inequality and handled data from 2007 to 2010. Going into inequality, I propose to review the latest data that are alarming. Oxfam's latest report, presented in January, says that Spain is the country of the European Union in which there is more inequality, only surpassed by Latvia. Their policies - which are certainly well-intentioned - serve to widen the distances between rich and poor. What we see, in the absence of rigorous reports, is that welfare measures and others are more palliative than transformative. Oxfam's data are demolishing and point out that - I am more interested in now and tomorrow than in the past, because we have to move forward - to continue with the measures that his Government is implementing the gap will become bigger, to the point that one third of the Spanish population is expected to be in poverty by 2020. They don't wish us a good future, the future looks bad. The report also refers to its labour reform, with low wages and poor quality employment, as a negative element and a tax system that has favoured the rich more in recent years and penalized the middle and lower strata. I am not talking to you about the OECD, which announces that probably three generations are going to be mortgaged or excluded in the short term. The Gini coefficient warns us that if inequalities continue to increase we will soon be in a situation of fragmentation and social conflict, in the breakdown of social cohesion and coexistence. Minister, I would ask you, in addition to your measures - which are well-intentioned and which serve to alleviate - to do another kind of policy with strategic information, which contemplates the short and medium term, to see what impact these policies have. Anyway... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Esteve. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteve. I want to share some ideas with you, except fear of the future; we only have to be afraid of the future if we make the mistake of returning to the therapies of the past that led us to this situation, if not, I believe that the Spanish can face the future with confidence. I thank him for recognizing that the Government is taking action, even if he says they are palliative, and for recognizing that the Government has good intentions. It is a novelty on the part of the Socialist Group that magnifies it. We must act on the substance and structure. That is what we had to do and that is what we have done: to return the country to the path of economic growth and that economic growth creates employment. Labour reform does what it does to make economic growth at much lower rates more intensive in job creation and thus pursues a social objective. The tax reform seeks that, when employment is created and income increases, the capacity of the State to return that effort to the citizens will reach the lowest incomes, the people who need it most and, above all, the families who are in a difficult situation. Therefore, it acts on the bottom, it acts on the causes of the worst economic crisis in recent decades that had a social impact that increased inequality as never before in a growth that is social and that gives opportunities for effective equality to all Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Theophila MARTÍNEZ SAIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTE THE LOW PRICE OF HYDROCARBURS TO BE REFLECTED IN THE PRICES OF FUEL? [[File number 180/001231]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u146	Question to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism by Mrs Teófila Martínez of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u147	Mr President, Minister, it is now six weeks that we have been contemplating how the price of fuels is rising, just in line with the rise in oil prices that has been taking place since the beginning of the year. Most Spaniards, the government in a very special way, are aware of our dependence on crude oil prices because our economy depends on those prices, because we need to import 99% of our consumption because it comes from abroad. Therefore, our economy, competitiveness and employment depend heavily on these prices and their application in daily consumption. We are concerned - and I know that you too - about how the impact of these oil price cuts or increases on fuel prices has recently been in the midst of a crisis, because that certainly fills with uncertainty for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers and all citizens in general, because it is impossible to predict when a crisis is going on as hard as this. We are therefore amazed and concerned when we found - last year - that even though oil prices were falling ostensibly in fuel prices, it was invaluable. That was a matter of great concern to all citizens. Surprisingly, we have gone to worse when we see that the rise in fuel prices has not kept us waiting, and the next day fuel prices had practically risen. As you know, Minister, the National Market and Competition Commission has recently imposed sanctions totalling EUR 32.5 million on five oil tankers for negotiating fuel prices, but not for these practices of impacting their prices at different speeds. We know that the Government is the guarantor of citizens' rights and is watching over them, as demonstrated once again by the fact that, through a new formula that sets the price calculation for liquefied petroleum gases packed with butane candy - for example - it drops by 10%. For this reason, and apart from what is contained in the hydrocarbon bill that we will discuss tomorrow in this House, we want to know what measures you think...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u148	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u149	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The fall in the price of oil for an economy such as Spain, which is dependent on oil imports by approximately 99,5 %, is extraordinary news. Because that lowers the bill we're paying for oil purchases and directly affects the balance of the trade balance, positively affects the balance of the balance of payments and affects the balance of the foreign sector, and that goes directly to economic growth. As you said very well, during the second half of 2014 there has been a significant decrease in the price of the oil barrel that has fallen from its levels of approximately $115 per barrel, in June 2014, to $55 per barrel at the end of December last year. In parallel, the international price of fuels has also decreased; one thing is the price of the barrel and another thing is the international price of the fuels and, the price of sale to the public, each time we go to a station to fill the deposit, is referenced not on the basis of the price of the barrel but on the basis of that international price. In the case of petrol, that international levy, during that period, fell by 48 % and for diesel oil by 40 % and, however, the selling price of petrol to the public fell by only 21 % and that of diesel oil by only 18 %. The question is: how do we reduce the raw material by 50% only by 20% or 18% the selling price to the public? For a simple reason: within the price of sale to the public the raw material is a part, not even the most important. In each litre of petrol 35 % is what fuel means, the other 75 % is taxed plus the distribution margins that companies have. What have we done to alleviate that situation? We introduced amendments to the General Hydrocarbons Act in 2013 to increase competition. Today there are more independent service stations and tomorrow, when the amendment to the whole of the General Hydrocarbons Act is discussed, we will see that further amendments are also introduced. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u150	Thank you, Minister. We've finished the set point for questions. [[Mrs Lozano Sunday asked for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u151	Mr President, under Rule 71, for the personal remarks made to me by the Minister of Defence, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u152	You have the floor, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u153	Mr Minister, I am not going to go into assessing your moral qualities because I believe that your attitude here today has been eloquent on its own. But seeking justice, defending the victims, doing the right thing and controlling the government is not moral lowness, it is simply my job. I thought your negligence in the case of Commander Zaida Cantera was due to the fact that it seems to you something less than a woman being sexually accused. What I have seen today is that you empathize with the stalkers, the persecutors and the aggressors of Commander Zaida Cantera. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u154	You have the floor, Mrs Lozano, for an allusion, not to restart the debate, and less to accuse the minister. Therefore, talk about the allusion you have received and whether or not you agree with it, but you cannot reopen the debate. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u155	I don't agree with the minister telling us to shut up about women. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I do not agree with the minister telling us to shut up women and telling the military to shut up that they are sexually harassed. Don't apologize to me, apologize to her and all the military who suffer sexual harassment for their negligence. The military doesn't deserve to have a minister like you. Present your resignation immediately, Minister! [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u157	Your Honor, I have already described in my speech what measures we have taken to prevent what you say I promote, hide, tapo, and do all the barbarities that you think you say of me. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] You have voted against all these measures. [[Mrs. Lozano Domingo makes negative gestures]] Please be a little consistent. You have very fine skin, Your Honor, you can insult me, you have called me a lobbyist; I have endured your insults in this House for three years without saying a word. Now it turns out I'm telling you a way of acting that I find morally reprobable and you get hurt, you think that's no way to treat you. Secondly, I do apologize for making the gesture of silence; I beg you, I beg you. I didn't do it to you or to the military women; I did it because there was a bit of noise. [[A Member of Parliament: You, shut up now.- Mrs. Díez González: To me? Mr. Aguiar Rodríguez: Shut up the minister is talking!-Strong rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u158	Please, I beg your silence. He's talking to the Minister of Defense and he's responding to an allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u159	Thank you. I will gladly withdraw all the moral reproach that I have made when you also withdraw all the insults, insidiations and slanders that you have made me over these three years in this House. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u160	The Socialist Group's inquiry into the steps the Government intends to take to prevent the serious setbacks it is causing in women's rights and freedoms and to turn equal opportunities between men and women into its main focus. For the defence of the inquiry, Mrs Monton has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this intervention by expressing my absolute rejection of gender-based violence. Yesterday, in less than 24 hours, we met three deadly cases, murders, in the Valencian Community, an unbearable tragedy that needs reaction, Minister. I already know what his answer will be, that when he ruled the Socialist Party there were also sexist murders. If he and you are no use at all, in gender-based violence not only does he not serve, but he weakens us as a society. I have already told you in the Equality Commission that I would like nothing more than to end this legislature with the fact that women victims and their daughters and children are more and better protected, and that social rejection of violence has increased especially among the youngest. But it's not like that. Gender-based violence is fuelled by impunity, indolence, indifference, inaction, budget cuts. Everything that is not fought, increases; everything that is not condemned, is strengthened. And the president of the government doesn't condemn it. The entire Government turned its back on the fight against gender-based violence from the Ministry of Education by removing equality and the prevention of violence from classrooms, to public administrations, by eliminating the competence of gender-based violence from municipalities. And your ministry and you, Minister, minimize it. Every time she talks about gender-based violence, she looks back, instead of looking at what is happening now under her responsibility and undertaking all the necessary efforts to put an end to it. We are often told of a list of issues that serve to be well on paper or to confuse those who do not know the reality of women's day-to-day lives, but it is not curbing violence because after three years of government many of its announcements have not gone beyond words, such as improving risk assessment protocols. I have already told you on several occasions that gender-based violence is not only measured by the number of murders, which is undoubtedly the most cruel, most painful indicator; it is also measured by the number of women who get out of it, it is measured, above all, by the number of women who live safely, with dignity and free of violence. And that's not getting any better. Minister, there is no more budget than in 2011. His Government had a cut of 22 per cent. There is no more protection than in 2011. Protection measures have fallen by 16 %, extreme risk assessments by 38 % and high risk assessments by 28 %. And there are no more complaints. They are below the 2011 figures. After his Government had worsened everything throughout the legislature, he did not intend to celebrate now as a great success if they went back to themselves a little bit in something, because with their cuts and setbacks they had broken three years of the lives of the women victims, their children and their daughters. As a society, we have wasted a lot of time and, on an equal footing, everything that is not advanced is reversed. They also want us to step back in rights and sexual and reproductive health again on an election date. Just yesterday, the Eurocamera adopted a report that says that women have the right to abortion. I do not know whether you in the People's Party have become aware and whether you are going to reconsider that with the amendment of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the voluntary termination of pregnancy proposed by the People's Group you are pushing younger women, more vulnerable to clandestine and unsafe abortion. Or if they are going to listen deafly, because they are very busy organizing demonstrations and holding election accounts at the expense of threatening women's health and rights. Minister, this week marks the 20th anniversary of the Beijing World Conference, which, under the auspices of the United Nations, envisioned gender equality in all dimensions of life and through which the various countries - Spain too - committed themselves to eliminating gender discrimination. I imagine that it will not give much importance to either the ephemeride or the appointment that brings together representatives from all over the world in New York these days at the opening of the fifty-ninth session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. I imagine that considering that the first thing your Government did was close the UN Women's Office in Spain, without giving any explanation. I can imagine this because they have neither condemned the Cedaw in the case for gender-based violence of Angela González Carreño, nor the shadow report, presented by 267 organizations and in which they tell him, in textual terms, that they have dismantled equality policies in Spain. I imagine that because you have come to ensure in parliamentary office that international reports tell us about the extraordinary increase in wage inequality between 2007 and 2011 and that Spain was the country of the world where inequality was most widened. You understand, Minister, that the policy of deception and the inheritance received, after three years of government, no longer serves. You want to talk about reports? Do you know the data on the period in which your Government is responsible, 2011-2015? Have you read the ILO World Wages Report published last week? He assures that in some countries - they quote Spain the first, followed by Greece, Ireland or Italy - the level of the real average wage in 2013 was lower than in 2007. Have you read in that same report that Spain and the United States are the two countries where inequality increased the most? Do you know the latest Global Gender Gap Report 2004 of the World Economic Forum? He says that Spain occupies the 29th position, compared to the 12th in 2011. In these three years Spain has dropped seventeen places in this ranking. In political empowerment our country has moved from 5th place in 2011 to 23rd place in 2014. But, even more, the worst note gets it in economic opportunities, where it occupies the 84th place. In this area, which takes into account equal pay, Spain has lost eight posts only in the last year. Minister, for the first time in forty years the female labour force is falling. More than 300,000 jobs have been destroyed in the public sector alone; stable jobs, mainly occupied by women. Do you know the latest annual salary structure survey in 2012? It shows that the annual gross remuneration of Spanish workers was almost 24 % lower than that of men, almost one point above 2011. Just like the specific study on the wage gap that UGT presented on February 22. Do you know him? He claims that Spain is clearing its wage gap and moving away from the EU average with that record of 24%, reaching the highest gap in the last five years. On precariousness only one more fact. ILO warns that there is also inequality between women themselves depending on whether they have children or not. In Spain, it is a wage penalty to have children - an average of 5% - and, in addition, the more children have less wages; the more children they have, the more they charge, the more men do the opposite. In other words, care continues to be carried out almost exclusively by women and, in addition, this free work penalizes them in the labour market. But perhaps the most devastating data are the ones that the Red Cross pointed out. Do you know the Social Vulnerability Report? It states that 60% of the people served by this organization in 2013 were women. Data indicate that a feminization of vulnerability is taking place with six women cared for by every four men. We have denounced the feminization of poverty as a growing phenomenon in the poorest countries for years. We now detect feminization of vulnerability as an increasing reality in our country. Moreover, the Eurochamber has just recognised it. Do you know? Yesterday, he pointed out that 80% of poor wage earners in the European Union are women and called for the need to narrow the gap between women and men in wages and pensions, reducing female rates of partial work, low pay and precarious conditions. And if you don't know any of those reports, I hope you do know your own data; I hope you know the February unemployment data. They're explicit. The unemployment rate is down by more than 13,000 people: Male unemployment is down by more than 19,000 workers, but the unemployment rate for women is up by more than 6,000. That is the reality, Minister. These are objective data that allow us to conclude that, with the excuse of the crisis, his Government has launched an economic reform that requires a social shift in women's citizenship. Now you can talk about equality by misrepresenting the concepts, but they are empty words. Its labour reform, which leaves the Equality Act on paper, without force to collective bargaining and equality plans and eliminates conciliation and co-responsibility measures, is passing a very high bill on to women. The dismantling of the welfare state also has a cost and is being paid by women. Women are the great ones punished for their policies: they are driven out of the labour market, they are precarious those who still retain their jobs and they bear the burden of care and free work that is neither valued nor paid nor accounted for. Minister, in the face of all this evidence, tell me how you are going to rectify it. What steps do you intend to take to correct the serious setbacks that your Government is causing in women's lives? Please tell me everything I asked you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Monton. Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u163	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs Montón, thank you for raising this debate in the House. It is always important that you have equality and I acknowledge that you are doing a great job in keeping these issues on the agenda. Although you in general are given much better denunciation than solving specific problems, denunciation does very well and that is already meritorious. Moreover, as they do so well, their position in the opposition is the one that contributes most. You denounce and we seek solutions. I do want to tell you that we have the same commitment to combat inequality. Inequality is obvious; it is not something new that this government invents or likes the People's Party, but that inequality was there also during the years you were ruling. I would like to join in the strongest condemnation of gender-based violence in general, but specifically the latest cases we have seen of murdered women. Right now we have five confirmed cases and two cases that are still under investigation, but that will probably also join those five. You asked me not to look back and not to make comparisons. I do not want to make comparisons, but it is an index that reflects to what extent we are being more effective or not. Cases of murdered women have been on the decline and the last three years have been the least since 2003. That's okay, and that means there's a job that's providing some fruit. It is a work that we put together years ago, in which we must trust because it is bearing fruit and in which we must insist and deepen. That is the will and vocation of our Government. Last year by these dates we had fifteen murdered women and this year we have five, maybe seven. It is unacceptable, but last year we had fifteen, which was the average we had a few years ago. I am grateful that you did not insist too much on the political use of these cases, although you say that that is already my responsibility and, of course, my responsibility. It seems to me a decisive step forward that orphans are now visible. There are nine orphans of these women who have been murdered, nine children who have been left without a mother and who are going to live this situation their whole lives. Now this House is going to have the opportunity to make a decision that I believe is transcendent and also historical, and that is that these minors are considered direct victims of gender-based violence; we are going to do so with the amendment of child protection laws and it seems to me that this is an important step forward. At least they are also included in the statistics and must be the subject of comprehensive care and protection by public administrations. He tells me that no work has been done on gender-based violence and that there is no progress. But there is progress and you know that we are working. In the field of education, we are now working on the curriculum because the perspective of gender-based violence has been incorporated into primary and secondary education. We are dealing with that work and we are doing that work; we want to focus special action on education and also on children and adolescents. The latest campaigns of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality and the Government delegation against gender-based violence affect the situation of adolescents in Spain because we are concerned, because we are seeing a tolerance in many of them towards attitudes of control, domination, macho imposition that are the gateway to a dominant position that leads to gender-based violence; that is what we are seeing among the youngest and we are therefore going to insist on these campaigns aimed at that part of the population because it seems particularly sensitive to us. In that area, everything you can naturally cooperate with is welcome. We have strengthened care services such as 016 or Atenpro and we continue to take action. Today I would like to draw attention to the draft amendment to the Organic Law on the Judiciary which we adopted the other day in the Council of Ministers. It is a project that extends the competence of the judge of violence against women, first of all, to crimes against privacy, the right to self-image and the honour of women and will also be aware of the crime of breaking sentence or precautionary measure. This amendment also makes it more effective to protect victims because this judge will have much more data than another to assess the risk situation. Since last year calls to telephone service 016, and we are insisting that younger women also make use of this resource, and the number of users of the Atenpro service has increased. We will therefore continue to work in this area and I am counting on you, and you also know that this year we have some more budget, because we have increased by 8%. The abortion case, I don't think you like it, nobody likes abortion. [[Mrs. Montón Giménez: What a barbarity! Are you telling me?]] In Spain there are more than 100,000 abortions, there has been a change in legislation and there are still a very large number of women who see themselves in the texture of having to abort and, therefore, I think that is not positive. I want to anticipate one thing: in the family plan, taking advantage that we will present it, we will incorporate a strategy for the prevention of unwanted pregnancies. I think it's important to prevent, I think it's an important job; I don't understand why it can't be, for example, a policy and a job that we could share You the only thing you do here... [[Mrs Montón Giménez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u164	Wait a minute, Minister. Mrs Montón, you will now have the opportunity to respond to the Minister as you see fit. Don't interrupt him, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u165	You only say from here that abortion is a right, but it is also a problem, that there are more than 100,000 women a year and therefore we must reduce that number, we must work and we must put in place a strategy that you did not do, we must do so and that is the intention of my Government. I would have liked to be with you on the anniversary of the Beijing Declaration but you also had to work here; here you are and I too to answer your questions and your questions; so we have remained on the ground working, however, from here we are also working and I think we can be very effective. In any case, we are very well represented by the Secretary of State, and in the UN as a whole we are very well represented because you have already taken care that we have the highest and most important representation in the United Nations on the issue of equality; in fact, it is what you dealt with most in the last legislature and there it is. You have told me about various reports, the report of the World Economic Forum, which I have read very carefully, and the comparison between 2011 and 2014. Besides, he's telling me about the political empowerment index. Indeed, we have fallen from positions, and the most important fall is in the Women in Ministerial post, where we were the first country in the world and now we are number twenty-nine, which makes us fall into the political empowerment section. What do you want me to tell you, that I've also replaced a woman in the government? I'm growing, apparently, inequality, according to the index you use and reproach me here, in the rostrum. Of course I'm guilty, aren't I, because this is the basic index. That is, for you equality is that there are many ministers in the Government, and if there are many ministers in the Government there is a United Nations index that reflects that. But I think we need to be more serious and address the issues much more deeply, and appreciate what we can do and what we are doing these years. The decisive thing today is that the issue of the wage gap has been definitively introduced into the political agenda, and it has been introduced to stay. The equality approach is therefore increasingly an approach to equality in the workplace. Now we look with hope at the data of the youngest boys, up to the age of thirty. We are already seeing much more egalitarian data of the younger population in access to the labour market, in the rate of activity or even in the positions of responsibility that they can occupy. Something is already changing in society and we must accelerate that change. This must therefore be a political priority, just as progress began when the fight against gender-based violence was introduced as a political priority on the agenda: there was a law, a policy and a delegation to fight that scourge. For now the wage gap is on the political agenda and we will have the privilege of approving the first plan that a Government makes to combat that situation. That's something that's been on us. If you were in the government you would say that you are setting up a historical right, etc., all those things that you like to say to the Socialist Party, which, apparently, is the father and mother of all rights that the human being has. But it is up to us to be in the Government and, as we are more humble, all we do is ask for their cooperation and realize that this is important and that we cannot do it against each other or alone. The situation of discrimination in the workplace also has much to do with the policies of conciliation and co-responsibility and with some failure of co-responsibility in the Spanish culture, because it is still very insufficient - the responsibility that men assume or assume in the care of family responsibilities remains much lower - and also with some cultures that exist in some companies. We want to help companies to be able to diagnose, to examine where they have the elements that cause discrimination, where wage differences that are not acceptable occur, what they are doing to make decision-making positions more female because they are still very small. We'll have to work with companies. The other day I was seeing a company that is exemplary in this sense, and one realizes that that is a way of operating much more modern and much more innovative. That's the way and that's the way we want to go. Progress is taking place, new developments are taking place, new challenges are opening up for the future that we have to face. That is the responsibility I bear now and you have to support to make a major breakthrough this year. There is also an opportunity from an economic point of view, because growth has returned. The responsibility is for such growth to be social and for it to be growth towards equality. In the past year, the activity rate of women has improved somewhat. There were 182,400 women who found employment. It is clearly insufficient and our responsibility is to work to ensure that the economic growth phase is an opportunity to improve equality between men and women in all areas. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u166	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Monton.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u167	Minister, call them giants, but they're mills; it's not going to distort reality. Call them whatever you want, but what I have brought you are objective data from independent, national and international organizations. If you think we're doing it right now, I'll tell you we'll do it better in the government and you'll see it. I know it bothers you to say that all decisive progress on equal terms has come from the Socialist Party, but it is true. This interpellation wants to be useful so that, even in the final straight of the legislature. To rectify urgently the harmful policies that are being carried out against women and equality. The data show that with economic cuts and setbacks in rights, this legislature is the legislature of inequality, especially between men and women, and that far from being justified in anti-crisis measures, they are framed in an ideological intention, where women's citizenship is questioned and cut. We don't want empty words. The commitment is demonstrated by facts, and you are giving facts; you are aware of what you are doing. They are using education to strengthen inequality. Otherwise, why do they take equality, the prevention of gender-based violence and sex education out of the curriculum - they have taken it out with Citizenship Education and the Wert Law - and put religion and creationism in the classroom? Why do they subsidize segregated education with public funds? Women are overburdened with the care they have taken from the welfare state. Is it by chance that the first thing that was eliminated were the games of the Education Plan3, from zero to three years of education, that he followed the attention to dependence, the fellowships of the dining room, the cuts in health care and pensions, and the co-workers? Did they not know that cuts in the welfare state particularly affect women, as the main users of social services and employees? Why now, who say we're out of the crisis, do not comply with the Equality Act and extend paternity leave? They have made poverty in Spain look like women; women and their children, because it also increases child poverty every day. Didn't you know that applying that labor reform was left on the way to women? Why have the budget allocations of the Autonomous Communities for the promotion of women's employment been eliminated? Do you think we haven't realized that they've been running the entire legislature announcing the same equal pay plan and that they've done nothing while the pay gap continues to increase? Don't joke about the political representation of women. You can have fun, but not have a voice and in some countries not even have a vote, damn the grace that makes us. Why do you think that, despite the fact that women are the ones who go to college the most, the ones who get the best grades, the ones who have the best and the best education, if they don't get there it's because they're not worth it? Why are they refractory to quotas and parity and always acting against them, even to appeal to the Constitutional Court the Equality Act? They cut budgets in gender-based violence. Don't say they've been raised. Since 2011, there has been an accumulated cut of 22 %. Do you think that with less money you can do more? Why has the President of the Government never condemned macho violence or given condolences to families? Do they not know that 73% of women who emerge from violence do so through separation and divorce and not through complaint? And that with the law of shared custody imposed increases the fear and defencelessness of these women, their children and their daughters, when they enter a process of separation? They want to change the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act. Look, it's a good law that talks about sexual and reproductive health, in addition to the voluntary termination of pregnancy, and that has already, in the years that have been in force, reduced abortion rates in Spain, especially among the youngest. Why does it not stop threatening women and simply apply this law, which is a good law that has enjoyed much consensus in this House? Don't they care that younger women can put their lives at risk by fleeing from an abusive father by forcing them into clandestine and unsafe abortion? Why have they accounted for prostitution in GDP and not care? Do they give more value to criminality and sexual exploitation than to all that domestic work that is essential for a society to function? You went to see a company on March 8 because you didn't dare look at the faces of women's associations and the people who were on the street. The answer to why they do all that, why they are taking all these measures is one: because all that builds up the social model they need to sustain a conservative economic model - their model. In order for this country to endure its cuts, it needs women at home to care for children, dependents, the sick and to have the only chance of helping the family economy with a part-time, precarious job and that does not prevent them from doing all that free work, which you are forcing them to do. The answer is because they are building a social model where the dignity and rights of women are inferior to those of men. In view of this, I must speak on behalf of the Socialist Group, because they are condemning women's lives today and, above all, they are condemning the future of our daughters. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Monton. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u169	You were talking about the mills and the giants. I feel like Don Quixote when I come up to this rostrum, pursuing an impossible mission, which is: How do I convince you... [[Mrs. Montón Giménez: With facts]] What more facts do you want me to give him?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u170	Mrs. Monton, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u171	Besides, you're making a judgment of intent, Mrs. Monton. It tells me that we have an ideological vision in which our pretension is to tie the woman to the home taking care of the children and that, if ever, she has a job - as you have said - to complement the family economy. That's what we want to do and that's our intention. I don't know how to explain to you that there is something we share and some visions that we can build together. It is not to believe in equality, it is to feel equality; to feel it every day and to find it as something absolutely natural and to be shocked when one goes out to the street and sees that what seems to one natural, which is the sensitivity that any person with a minimum of formation and decency has to have, because it does not happen. That happens to me, too, I see it doesn't happen. I've been seeing that it doesn't happen all my life, always; that doesn't happen and doesn't happen. I will not accept you to make a judgment of intent that the People's Party has no sensitivity, no feeling. You don't have to use us for those mental obsessions that sometimes appear in the Socialist Party. Everything can be used. When they were called to cut, they didn't tell them what they had to cut, but they told them to cut because they were going bankrupt. However, the first thing they cut was pensions and the baby check; it was the first thing they cut. It is very difficult to go up to the rostrum to ask for social sensitivity when it was the first thing that was cut off, when it was the first step that was taken and the first one that was intended to sacrifice. That does tell you what your priorities are. Do you know what we did first? To guarantee unemployment benefits and also to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions; this is the first thing we did when we arrived at the Government. I'm going to tell you one thing: we had to raise taxes to those who came in the most. It was not what we wanted to do, it was what we had to do to guarantee social benefits because the country was absolutely bankrupt. We said it was fair for big companies to pay taxes, because if they don't pay taxes, who has the responsibility to support the state? And that these large companies also had to be involved in equality policies. That is why the number of counsellors is finally increasing, although it is still anecdotal because it is 17%, but it was 11% when you left the government. We must make equality plans, introduce them into the world of these big companies and also into the rest of the economic fabric. He tells me I went to a company because I don't dare go talk to people on the street. But who do you think works there? The people of the street work, who have the fortune to have a job in a company that is model in that sense. And that must be valued, it must be told, and it must be disseminated as widely as possible. It has increased the voice and vote of women; I am not joking about that - I have made a joke - but I want to tell you that the fact that I care most about it - which also comes in that report to which you referred - is that it has increased the presence of women in Parliament and I believe that it also increases the role of women in Parliament; perhaps in the government, no, but here in Parliament, yes. [[Mrs. Montón Giménez: The Equality Act]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u172	Wait a minute, Minister. Mrs Montón, you have had the opportunity to say what you considered appropriate, some offensive things. Therefore, it is your time to shut up and listen to the Minister like the rest of us sitting here. Please, Mrs. Monton, let the others talk. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u173	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, but to be fair, you haven't interrupted me either. He makes gestures to me, but he hasn't interrupted me. [[Mrs. Montón Giménez makes negative gestures]] I turn to some specific issues that you raised - then I don't know what you're going to raise in the inquiry, you say it's going to be useful, I don't know what purpose but I hope it's useful for a purpose that we can share - such as paternity leave. The first extension was led by you, then we have also extended it. One of the first speeches I made in this House was to defend it, but I hope that the paternity permit will not be extended again and that it can therefore now enter into force. As far as the pay gap is concerned, I'm doing it. This is a novelty of this legislature on the political agenda and it has to remain so for a long time because the lack of equality in the workplace is difficult to tackle, is very persistent and must therefore be a priority and is closely related to co-responsibility. There is no doubt that it has to be an even greater objective than that of conciliation, and therefore we are no longer talking about conciliation but about co-responsibility as a concept to which it has to go indissolubly linked. And I want to tell you to conclude that the Government's commitment is not exhausted in what the State Secretariat of Social Services or professionals working in gender-based violence in the ministry - politicians and also professionals you know and who are of an extraordinary category - can do, but it affects all areas of government. Also to education, where we are really working on the curriculum for classrooms to spread an effective culture of equality. And of course the president of the government, of which he says he has never condemned. The last time, on the occasion of International Women's Day, he expressed a strong condemnation and commitment on the part of the Government, and in that regard we feel strongly supported by the President in the thrust of policies that promote effective equality. Thank you, Madam Vice President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u174	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON THE CURRENT SITUATION AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVES OF THE JOINT MILITARY BASIS OF USE EXISTING IN OUR COUNTRY. [[File number 172/000294]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u175	We turn to the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left on the current situation and prospects for the future of the existing joint-use military bases of our country. For your defense, Mr. Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, our group has brought this question because we understand that it is good to have a debate on the military bases in Spain, although I have to admit that the title is a little ironic because we do not believe that for joint use, nor do you, either, do we? But we want to have a debate on the situation of the bases, as I said, at a time when international tensions are being resolved more and more from force, from war, and we believe that it is necessary to reflect on a new model of the architecture of world security, which cannot continue along this path, Minister, which must be based on shared security and diplomatic prevention of the control of problems. The truth is that we cannot make the trade in uncontrolled weapons subject to everything that is currently being placed in that respect. The truth is that prevention has to come from the real control of the arms trade and dual-use material. We are not illusions, we are not naive people who believe in an idyllic world, but we do want to ask you and your Government to reflect on where your security model is leading us. It is leading us to a more insecure, more dangerous and also more unjust world. That is why we want to reflect on very concrete facts, we are not talking about philosophy, we are talking about the examples of the territories that you claim to have liberated in recent years. We can talk about Libya. Can you say today that Libya is more democratic, safer, that its people today are more free than when their friend Gaddafi, friend of his government, ruled? We sincerely believe no. Can you also explain to us why people in Syria were being armed and helped as one of the greatest terrorist dangers on the planet today? These are questions that we would like to discuss this morning. You know that the only real policy that would lead us to a safer and freer world is to put an end to the main threat of humanity, which is hunger, misery, disease, and to do so since military disarmament and, therefore, since the abolition of military bases abroad. That is why we are bringing this debate, because we do not want Spain in general and very concretely to remain a spearhead in NATO's military operations, aggravated by the installation of the naval missile shield and the transfer of the Rota naval base to this anti-missile shield and also by the decision to turn the base of Morón into a global base for combating jihadist terrorism. This makes Spain, and in particular Andalusia, one of the areas of the world that bets on rearmament, with the consequent danger to its own security. We have already said on other occasions that decisions of this magnitude should be taken by referendum, that the Andalusian Parliament should be consulted so that in this way Spanish and Andalusian citizens can finally decide whether they are converted, as I say, into a war zone, into an unsafe zone. The Rota base itself, that of Moron, as well as all those deployed by the United States throughout the planet, should be dismantled and their troops should return to their bases of origin in the United States, because they have nothing to do with security; on the contrary, they are instruments of insecurity. Today the world is more insecure, today the world is not more secure. On the foundations that exist in our country - you know it - there is no Spanish sovereignty. I have already told you how ironic it is that we must have used the argument of joint use in this inquiry. You know that's not the case. Even in labor relations - the workers have been denounced - as the long conflict that is suffered at the base of Morón, it is a scandal that it is the patrols of the military police of the United States that intervene to repress the strikers in a labor conflict in Spanish territory. We believe that it is time for the Spanish Government to put an end to this situation of discrimination and abandonment suffered by workers at the base of Morón. We believe that his Government must intervene actively to put an end to that situation of injustice in unfair negotiations and that it is deteriorating every day. The status of the concessionaire of the base management contract cannot continue in impunity. You know that the workers have been enduring a long conflict, which corresponds - they themselves denounce it without much attention being paid to you - to a strategy, which is to replace more and more Spanish workers with soldiers, with United States personnel to do the functions that the Spanish workers used to do. You know that there are several hundred jobs that are being lost, not because there is less work, but because Spanish workers are replaced by United States personnel. In this dirty game that the workers of the company have been denouncing, they have not found - and I tell you so - their support as minister of the Government of Spain. This lack of sovereignty is further compounded by the fact that neither the ecological safety nor the non-storage of radioactive, polluting or nuclear material is guaranteed, nor are measures available to prevent the air, land or sea transit of nuclear material. As I said, Minister, Andalusia does not have to bear the burden of two foreign military bases, which should also be added to the situation in Gibraltar as a military base very close to Andalusia, in the same geographical context as Andalusia. The citizens of Andalusia and the entire peace movement continue to defend the problems from negotiation and dialogue. We believe that war only brings war and destruction. We believe that we must go to a new public order other than that of the armed forces. You are leading us to a public order that coincides with a guideline of the defence and foreign policies of the United States, clearly at the service of the military framework, of the military industry. Indeed, the installation - we have already denounced it on other occasions - in the Route of the anti-missile shield, the increase - you camouflage it as it camouflage - of military expenditures, the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia or the extension of the bilateral treaty with the United States are nothing more than examples of this situation that we believe not only does not benefit our country, but harms it and, very concretely, harms this territory, Andalusia. That is why, I repeat, we are neither illusory nor naive, we believe that we must impose mechanisms for the United Nations to play a role in resolving conflicts, as theoretically they were created for that purpose. Situations that generate conflict at the root need to be eliminated. I already asked you, do you think Libya is safer today? Do you think the suffering of the Libyan people has served anything? And, I repeat, that we were not friends with Gaddafi, we were the only force that did not meet with him when he came to Spain, but we understand that what has been done there is nothing more or less than to change one situation for another more harmful. What has happened is that oil has changed hands, because that is the basis of the problem, who controls oil and now controls it by multinationals. To this end, the military bases in Spain are dedicated to protecting a mechanism, a system, a world in which natural resources try to put themselves in the hands of economic interests. That is why, from this rostrum, we join the movement for world peace that, peacefully, is mobilizing against the military bases throughout the world. We have alternatives, we have raised it at the United Nations level, but we also want the current military bases in Rota and Morón to be transformed into instruments of international cooperation. It would be no barbarity if, instead of taking off military aircraft loaded with bombs, they took off medical aircraft loaded with tents to take doctors to places of conflict. That is the role, the cooperation, to bring doctors instead of taking soldiers to countries that are suffering natural misfortunes. That is why we have historically denounced that the wars of Iraq, Afghanistan or Libya are nothing but barbarism to achieve the geostrategic domination of the world and of natural resources. He has not trembled or shook his hand to determine who are the enemies to beat. You determine who is the enemy to beat according to those interests. Nor does his hand shake when it comes to sacrificing human lives. I have set the example of Libya, but we can also set the example of Syria and many other places. Military bases represent the largest terrorist factory. Who are the real ideological parents of Al Qaeda and the Islamic State? Who has encouraged these terrorist movements to go on feeding? In what world have they been generated? Under what conditions, under what incubator have they been pregnant? In Afghanistan, when the Soviet Union was to be fought, and in Syria, when one of its enemies was to be fought, and now they become a problem for all of humanity. You'd have to ask who fed them in that incubator. That is why we pose another different world; not an illusory and naive world, on the contrary, is a world of peace, which seeks real disarmament and can resolve conflicts from cooperation, because the opposite is to encourage terrorism, generate terrorism, a spiral, that there is aggression and there is response. That's what happened. I would like to devote the last fifty seconds, as has already been done this morning, to solidarity with the victims of a terrorist act that took place in this country and which shows that we must learn from mistakes and that we must build peace by preventing terrorism. Those of us who really consider ourselves anti-terrorist are those who want a world in peace, a world where justice is imposed on injustice. That's the way terrorists don't find echoes anywhere. Let us end terrorism at the root. That is why solidarity with the victims and their families who suffered this very serious attack here in Madrid must be accompanied by the defence of peace, solidarity and a more just world.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u177	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Your honor says that I do not believe the joint use of the Spanish bases in Morón and Rota. Yes, I do, Your Honor, and I am responsible. Don't put yours in my beliefs because I can't get there. I must confess that I came a little doubting to this question, it is not because I have any doubts about the prospects for the future of the joint use of the Spanish bases, with two fundamental concepts: solidarity in the stability of the world and Spain's own defence. My uncertainty comes from the approach that his group was going to take in this inquiry, which is a plural approach, of international policy, of principles and of concrete basic aspects; but I did not know whether I intended to move the frontal opposition - which he has done - to the presence of American forces on Spanish territory, to the very existence of bases, American or Spanish, to the concept of the defense of the world and especially given the dates that we passed - as he has done - in Morón and Rota. I am pleased that your honor is dealing with this matter at this very particular time in Andalusia because it is quite logical, on the other hand, to do so. There was also the no-minor possibility that the amendment would be to the whole, that I would consider a position of eradication - as you have done - of the bases of Moron and Rota for any reason that is reconciled with the antimilitarism that Gustavo Bueno called the thought Alicia, of which you have made boast at the moment. My bet focused on a third option - which you have also made - that is to say that I was going to ask myself to concentrate on the task of solidifying the civilian employment that both military bases generate in their maintenance and all kinds of services. At the same time, he hoped that he would criticize the past, present and a priori future relationship between the United States of America and Spain; the defence cooperation in so many countries and, last but not least, the defence policy of our country. Once I've heard your speech, I don't think I've gone too far in my estimation. I do not want to open a debate here on deductive capabilities, but I do want to take advantage of the opportunity given to me by this question to explain Spain's reasons for cooperating in defence with the United States of America among other countries and even the causes that lead us to have a very favourable disposition to deepen this relationship, in this new opportunity for negotiation that has now been opened to us. He could not escape that the United States of America shared with Spain deep historical roots strengthened by the modern ties that came from sharing democratic principles and values and from sustaining homologable states of law. Nor can he escape that the United States is, in addition to our oldest and closest bilateral defence relationship of the contemporary era, the reference ally of the main security and defence organization to which we belong, which is NATO. Well, in addition to these basic pillars in our relationship, in recent years we have been deepening and almost confluenced in the analysis of risks and threats. Yes, Your Honor, beyond the strategic framework that we have in common in the Atlantic Alliance, we share the concern about the situation in Spain's immediate environment. While for the United States it is a regional problem or a dimension more than one serious global problem, for us it is a remarkable part of the national security strategy and our defence directive. I am talking about the concern about instability in the Mediterranean area, in the Sahel and in the Gulf of Guinea. I am talking about active defence against ballistic missiles or cooperation in the control of maritime borders and the fight against illicit trafficking. I am talking about the sharing of intelligence, technology, training and training, experience in the face of new challenges, new challenges and new scenarios such as cyberspace or satellite development. All this is extremely beneficial for national defence, which is absolutely necessary to guarantee the future of that freedom, justice, peace and well-being that you want for Spain. I absolutely share that will that you have to have those goods, but I extraordinarily disagree that they are free, as your lordship considers them to be. From the alliance with Spain the United States obtain privileged strategic positions in a country stable in all its dimensions and where its staff is easily integrated. Its material means can be easily received, maintained and even evolved and where they have safely covered their needs. In this area of good defence cooperation, in a mutually beneficial relationship between equals, there are secondary elements, compared with the purpose of national security and international security, which in some ways hinder that relationship. That is what we are trying to solve, as are the labour aspects that directly affect the Morón de la Frontera base. You say that I do not deal with this matter and I have been with two US Defense Secretaries for a long time, with this being the third, talking about that for us the working issue of Morón is an essential aspect of the relationship between the two countries for the joint use of the base. Let me tell you that in this regard I believe that we will come to important solutions. Let me tell you that for other times this situation of the workers in Moron has been made difficult for understandable reasons from the point of view of the United States because they have reduced their defence budget, but also in some way linked to some ways of proceeding that did not do many favors for the United States to recognize that those relations were in a regular or regular setting that they should have been. We have received political representatives and trade unions to discuss this matter and I assure you, Your Honor, that I deal with this matter on a daily basis, putting all the pressure we can put on, including the renewal of the convention, so that this employment situation can be resolved. Your Honor, I want to go to what you went to in the beginning too. I believe that defence is an obligation of governments. You may think that defense begins by exporting... There is a reality, which is a reality of threat, a reality of risk, a reality of death, a reality of aggression among the peoples to whom we try to help among them, aggression of people who are in those peoples and who attack other countries in a brutal way, and we must defend ourselves. Not just one is defended with ideas, ladies and gentlemen, because the ideas are very good. Solidarity, generosity, sharing wealth, sharing the world among all countries seems to me to be an extraordinary idea, an acceptable idea, an idea to support, but, in the meantime, people are being killed; in the meantime, justice is being violated, freedom is being violated; peace is above all being violated, that peace that you and I understand as a final, first-class political goal. In the meantime, this Government, in fulfilment of its duty, and I must say that with the majority support of this House, it is fulfilling its duty in Spain and also outside Spain, being in solidarity with our allies, but also with the countries we want to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u179	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u180	Indeed, Minister, peace is not only defended by ideas. Peace is defended by concrete facts, peace is defended by not selling weapons to those who use them, peace is defended by building a different world with facts, exporting doctors, exporting solutions to the real problems of people who cannot eat. That's not words, that's facts. If doctors were to leave from Moron, from Rota, instead of soldiers, we would be building a fairer world from the very beginning. Who sells the weapons we have to defend ourselves from? Possibly the same ones who sell us weapons to defend us. That's the problem. If we do not attack the root of the problem, what we do is the world becoming more and more insecure. What we have come to put to you here are not empty words, I have come to put to you here that with its mechanism, with its method, with its forms they are making an increasingly insecure world that is failing. Well, it's not failing because they're getting the target, which is selling weapons. Its logic is the sale of weapons and our logic is to build a world from reality, not from words, more just. That is why we have proposed that we must change the logic by changing the instruments, and that is not words. On the bases, if you really believed, beyond the declarations, which are of joint use, you would intervene in another way in the labor conflict of Morón, dealing with it, not denying it, but dealing with it since submission, not with the certainty that it is in Spanish territory and that it is defending Spanish workers in Spanish territory against a foreign government. You will speak with everyone - I do not doubt it because we know that he is a minister who works - but he speaks from the submission, he speaks from which he is not believed to be bases in Spanish territory, that Morón is Spanish sovereignty and that the military police of the United States cannot act against workers who are on strike. I do not know if I have understood correctly that at some point I was able to blame the workers for the situation created with the United States, I had to know wrong. I'm saying it so it can be clarified. There has been a labor conflict, and today the conflict is not better, unless it has a data that we and the workers themselves do not know. If at some point you have been able to insinuate that the actions of the workers have been able to hinder the solution, if you have said so, I think it is a serious mistake. Indeed, there are risks and threats and we must face them, but not on the current path, because it has been shown that the world is not more secure. You said you were going to Libya to end a problem. Can you say here whether the problem has been solved in Libya today? They said it was necessary to intervene in Syria. Can you assure us that the problem of Syria has been solved? Can you say that the Mediterranean today is safer than fifteen years ago? What his logic leads him to is that each time we have to have more bases because the problem will become bigger and bigger. You - and when I say you I mean those who share your philosophy - are the ones that are generating more terrorists every day. The way forward is the way it is generating more and more terrorism. Where does Al Qaeda come from? Where does the Islamic State come from? It comes from an incubator that is a defence policy that has been generated that provokes war. And war brings more terrorism. That's why we've come here, not to talk to you about ideas, which also, because ideas are important, because ideology is important, but when you talk about ideas in disqualifying plan, our ideas are not illusions, it's not utopia, it's a reality that can be achieved. I repeat, if we were able to turn military spending into spending to put an end to hunger, which is no utopia, which is no idea, it is that people die of hunger really, and despair causes terrorism, if we dedicate defence spending to that, maybe it had to close some other company, but surely the world would be safer. We urge you to change your national security directive and be genuinely safe and not insecure, such as the current one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u181	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, I make it clear to you what I said. I have not said that the fault of the conflict lies with the workers; what I have come to say is that in the first ERE of 2010 there were a number of irregularities that have reduced quite credibility to the positioning of those who in their day presented that ERE. Nothing more than that. Your Honor, I can't have a principled discussion. I defend peace, just like you; justice, just like you; freedom, just like you and well-being, just like you. What happens is that there is a situation, a reality that - I agree with you - must be addressed in various ways, but they are not exclusive. We have to make a policy of cooperation, a policy of generosity, a policy of aid to those countries that need it - I agree - in their poverty and sometimes, in this case, in their religious integrity, they are posing a very serious threat to global security, global security that defends that freedom, justice, peace, the values that we all defend can continue to be in the world, because there are countries that do not have such situations, but that do not have either freedom, security or democracy or anything like that, countries that, by the way, grow in their defence budgets in an exorbitant way and that also export their weapons to the whole world. Therefore, there is no good or bad part in this matter; there is a part of an insecure world and we, as a Government, have an obligation to deal with it, basically from the Ministry of Defence. There will be other ministries that will deal with these policies of cooperation and development that I believe are fundamental to tackling the causes that cause, for example, piracy in Somalia or some areas of jihadist terrorism, precisely because there is little future for certain peoples. I totally agree, but in the meantime, we have to guarantee security and defence, our own and our allies'. And for that, the most important thing is to have strong allies who share our principles, our ideals and our way of understanding the world. That is what we are doing, Your Honor, with the foundations of Morón and Rota: to guarantee the security of Spain, to guarantee the security of the areas in which we are incorporated, the European Union and NATO, that is, of the world in which I at least - and I believe that an immense majority of our compatriots - want to live; a world of democracy, freedom, peace, justice and well-being. You are not illusory, neither are we. Nor do we believe that because of a position of a theoretical type or by a position of only cooperation or by some position that somehow excludes the duty of the defense, by that conjure, there is going to be a cessation of that violence that we are living. I ask you to read the principles, the reasons why these terrorist movements that affect us are in the world. I can assure you that they speak neither of peace nor of justice nor of equality or of anything like it; they speak of destroying us, simply and plainly. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to consider these purposes so that in the approach of national defence you bear in mind that it is very important to be strong, to be coherent and to have partners who share our principles, our ideals and also our responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u183	Thank you, Minister. - the Catalan parliamentary group, on the priorities of the Government to empower the digital economy. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 172/000296]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u184	We turn to the Catalan Parliamentary Group's call on the government's priorities to boost the digital economy. [[Convergence and Union]] For your defence and presentation, Mrs Riera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u185	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, from my parliamentary group we intend to open the debate on the digital economy and the necessary public policies a week after the Mobile World Congress, an annual technology fair that is part of Mobile World Capital and which is today a decisive instrument in the service of digital development. We believe that transformation is an appropriate term to visualize the economic and social moment we live in, a transformation led by the digital economy that has its raison d'être on the Internet and in mobility. When we refer to the digital economy, we no longer refer to a sector, but to an economy in which there are two major players: on the one hand, the citizens, who acquire greater prominence; and, on the other, the Internet as a determinant of digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this question is, firstly, to highlight the importance of the digital economy in this transformation; secondly, to highlight the need to move forward in policies supporting this transformation; and, thirdly, to strengthen an instrument that contributes clearly and decisively to digital development and that shows us year after year the dimension and scope of this transformation, such as Mobile World Capital and, in particular, its congress. The recent congress has been a further demonstration of the depth, speed and scope of digital transformation and the opportunities it creates for citizens, businesses and the whole of our economy. This transformation forces us to act and manage change. The ability to anticipate that we have will determine the success or failure of this adaptation process. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital economy is driving an economic and social transformation that is cross-cutting and structural and that affects all sectors, that is disruptively changing the way we collaborate, relate, work and share information and that is driving new disruptive economic activities over the past; just think, for example, about the collaborative economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the digital economy requires European but also own policies. The transformation is global and requires a great effort of harmonization, cooperation and sharing on many of the issues - some more critical than others - that determine digital development. The digital economy is part of the European agenda and priorities, especially the new Commission. The European Commission has recently stated that the European Union is in a good position to achieve the 5G target by 2020, a technology that will allow mobile Internet connections at ultra-fast speeds. All this only confirms that the commitment to this transformation, which translates into competitiveness, progress, economic activity and employment, is European and requires adequate infrastructure, ensuring accessibility and opening up a European debate on the various common issues arising from the transformation. This is in line with the commitment to the Digital Single Market, which must be translated into specific measures and must be a solid basis for taking advantage of the benefits of digitisation of the economy and society and also an instrument for the integration of Europe into the new global digital scene. I repeat that transformation is global, but it also requires local responses. In parallel with actions at European level, at state level we have a responsibility to ensure competitiveness and social and territorial cohesion, laying down the conditions for the deployment of our own broadband infrastructures and technologies or new generation networks for universal access for our citizens and businesses. I firmly believe that the recent General Telecommunications Act, adopted with broad consensus, responds to this need. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, President, the main challenge we have is the management of change, as I said before, and to help ensure that this process of digitising the economy that generates great opportunities is incorporated by society. Taking advantage of these opportunities requires designing policies that capture the new interactions of the digital world, requires aligning the efforts of the public and private sectors, betting on education and training and also ensuring confidence - which is also security - which is one of the intrinsic values of the new economy. It is also necessary to point out the very important economic and social impact of the digital economy, and it is undeniable. The economic impact goes far beyond what it represents as a sector; the economic impact of digital transformation is cross-cutting, this is its great value; it affects and involves all sectors, from the most traditional to the most innovative, and we are at a time of clear commitment to reindustrialisation. We talk a lot about reindustrialisation, and to talk about it today is to talk about the processes of automation and industrial digitisation as tools of productivity and competitiveness. We have the example of Germany. Germany, a deeply industrial country, has launched the Industry 4.0 project, a high-tech strategy project that involves the transformation of factories into digital and robotic plants, aware that ICT will be the determining factor in the fourth industrial revolution and this should be the driving force behind the European economy. The challenge of competitiveness is increasingly the digital economy, the Big Data and the Internet of Things, the automation and digitisation that it entails. And one important point: the digital economy must be of all enterprises and, therefore, it must come to small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, and policies must also be geared towards this through taxation, financing and training. But this revolution involving the digital economy also has a very relevant social impact, and alongside opportunities it also carries certain important risks and challenges, such as digital exclusion and social fragmentation, which we must avoid, and education and training are essential and indispensable for this. It will also be necessary to analyse the impact of ICT and the digital economy on the labour market, also aware that this digital transformation entails changes and challenges to current social protection systems. Education and training are therefore essential if this economic and social transformation is to be inclusive, cohesive, just and avoid leaving out of the system profiles less prepared to face these challenges and a formed middle class that has played a decisive role in stability in the more advanced democracies. Faced with these challenges of digital transformation, of the digitalization of the economy, the role of governments as drivers of change is fundamental, they must take an active role in the creation and promotion of these new markets, of new projects, of new profiles and of new attitudes; as I said before: Governments must be facilitators, establish enabling environments for change, and boost support infrastructures without which digital transformation, with the depth and speed with which it comes, will not be assumed by our society. In this regard, I would like to reiterate that the recently adopted General Telecommunications Act was and is an important step in this direction, and one example is the deployment of broadband and ultra-fast broadband networks such as basic axes and infrastructure. Let us not forget that the digital economy requires more investment in infrastructure, the deployment of more innovative networks and services, and that is why the General Telecommunications Act itself must be part of the digital strategy. At the international level, the debate on the digital economy is highly topical. It will be important to face debates such as the neutrality of the network at European level, as countries outside the European sphere such as the United States are also doing, as well as to address a calm but broad debate on this and other issues such as the British or French parliaments are doing. The OECD also has the digital economy among its priorities, proof of which is its relevant publication Measuring the digital economy; the European Union has also recently published the Digital Economy and Society Index 2015. President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I referred to the beginning of my speech on the need to support and strengthen instruments that contribute to the development and impetus of the digital economy. Today one of these instruments is the Mobile World Capital, whose most significant event is the Mobile World Congress, but which goes much further. The Mobile World Capital boosts the ecosystem of entrepreneurs, boosts the system of mobile and digital base startups through the attraction of digital acceleration programs that come from all over the world, attracting talent and capital, and thus contribute to giving even more value to our startups and our companies. The industrial revolution is and comes on a digital basis and startups have their impact on the traditional industry, which is being transformed. What Mobile World Capital is pursuing is the creation of a hub for innovation and digital mobile knowledge and contributing to a new industrial story. We have the best annual event, the congress, that allows us to put in the world showcase the power of this transformation, as well as our firm commitment to it. Mobile World Capital is creating an ecosystem with a very high innovative and technological value through the startups that are generated, through the technology that develops and the companies that participate, and reaches multiple economic sectors and society as a whole. The Mobile World Capital is economy, minister, is knowledge, are training and dissemination environments that contribute in a consistent way to generate more and better culture, a new mentality, new digital activities, in a global and cross-cutting way. Our strong commitment to the digital economy, by joining this transformation, leads us to seek with greater emphasis and strength the continued support, reinforcement and complicity around Mobile World Capital, an instrument that is country-based. Mobile World Capital must be an instrument of cooperation between administrations, complicity and public-private cooperation and an example of the policies to be pursued. I'm done, Madam President. It is also necessary to say, when we refer to Mobile World Capital, that all this has been possible by the commitment of the public administrations, by their role from the ministry, by the conviction, effort and strategic vision of all of us, but also by the president of the team of the Fira de Barcelona and - I repeat - by the maximum collaboration between the Fira and the public administrations. It is another example of this necessary and indispensable collaboration and cooperation to build a greater and better economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u187	Mrs Riera, first of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the question I am being asked today, which allows me to highlight what the Government has been doing throughout this parliamentary term to boost the digital economy in Spain, as well as to express once again my gratitude and that of the entire Government, because a large part of the legislative initiatives that have been taken in this area throughout this parliamentary term have been by agreement, have been done by consensus and have been discussed in advance with intensity. In particular, I would like to express my gratitude to you, because from the very beginning of this parliamentary term we have worked hand in hand to have today a better regulatory and incentive framework, ultimately, for investments. We have just celebrated the tenth edition of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, and without any exaggeration we can say that it has become throughout these ten editions the most important event in the field of telecommunications and digital economy that is celebrated in Europe and of course the most important in the world. A good proof of this is the growing number of visitors who come to Barcelona to do business or to contemplate the latest advances in the digital economy, as well as the number of companies that go to expose their latest technological advances. Indeed - you said it and I totally agree with you - when it comes to the digital economy we are no longer talking about just one sector; the whole economy is digital. Today, an economy is all the more competitive the greater the degree of digitisation it has incorporated into its productive processes; and that growing digitisation affects - and you have also mentioned it - all citizens, all businesses, and it has on its basis the Internet. Over the past 20 years, many advances have been made in the digital economy. What happens is that these developments and changes have been taking place until a relatively short time ago in a geometric way, and exactly two or three years ago the change in which these changes occur is no longer in a geometric way, but in an exponential way. We are in a digital reality marked by hyperconnectivity, and every time we read essays or opinions of observers and experts in this field they point out that the changes we are going to see over the next few years are going to be much more intense than those we have seen over the last fifteen or twenty; changes not only in speed, not only in content, but also in devices. You will remember how in 2007, when Apple's president presented the first version of the iPhone, he said three words, that we probably didn't really understand what he meant at the time, but that over time we've been seeing it. At that time, Steve Jobs, 2007 when he was presenting the iPhone, said: This will change absolutely everything. Well, it's been eight years and today practically a large part of all the communication that is made over the Internet is made through smart mobile devices. As you mentioned, all of this involves major changes, major changes and we need to have the capacity to manage those changes. That is what we have been doing throughout this mandate with the invaluable support of many parliamentary groups and, of course, of their own. The first thing we did was to design a roadmap that, based on the European Digital Agenda, would have the shape in Spain of a Digital Agenda for Spain with the definition of all the axes that had to be developed in order for the economy to be a digital economy. Here are the axes for the development of digital content. There is the axis for giving us greater trust and digital inclusion; everything that has to do with e-commerce, e-public services, e-health, e-education, e-governments; and it also has to do with everything we can do in terms of technological security. Well, from that Digital Agenda for Spain we have been developing a number of provisions. You referred to the General Telecommunications Act. What was meant by this framework? It was intended to provide us with a more appropriate regulatory framework to facilitate the investments needed to make the digital economy a reality and essentially to facilitate investment in infrastructure. When you see the time that has passed from the adoption of the new General Telecommunications Law to the present and when you see how infrastructure investments have increased over the course of 2014, we can conclude that we are gradually achieving an important part of the objectives that are included in that law. That is true, we must try to reconcile what it is to equip the competition sector with what is the need to continue to invest. Because such investments will be the greatest guarantee of a more competitive economy, greater territorial cohesion and greater equality in terms of digital inclusion among citizens. You meant that actions must be carried out not only at national level, but also at European level. If we compare ourselves with our major competitors worldwide from a European perspective, if we compare ourselves with the US market or the Chinese or Japanese market, the first thing that draws attention to in the European digital market is the number of telecommunications operators that still exist in Europe. A figure that is more than one hundred, compared to a figure less than ten in the United States, let's say large operators, three or four large operators in China and two operators in Japan. This means that we cannot compete under the same conditions as the large operators who are our competitors, or not be able to face the necessary investments in infrastructure. That is why the Government has raised, over these three years, both with the previous European Commission and with the present, the need for consolidation in the telecommunications sector so that there are operators who are larger players, who can not only compete within Europe, but we can do so above all outside Europe and with US operators and large Asian operators. All this has a huge impact - you also mentioned it - on the industry, on the reindustrialisation agenda for Spain, where, in fact, one of the important axes is how to instrument the support and development of the digital economy connected with Industry 4.0, or with that combination between the conventional machine and the digital economy. He knows that some important steps have been taken in this area. The government recently approved a help line for the multinational HP to locate its global 3D printing innovation centre in Spain, San Cugat del Vallès. A production model already carried out in many industrial subsectors and which is also called upon to revolutionize industrial procedures in all subsectors of the industry. You said that we had to take into account not only the economic impact of clear advantage that all of this had on the economy, but also the social impact. It is true, because certainly as new opportunities are being created with the development of the digital economy, there are also some other problems that have to do not only with greater or lesser digital inclusion, but also with the impact that all of this can have on employment. That is why also within the Digital Agenda for Spain there is a line of training and training for these new challenges presented by the digital economy. Also, as you are well aware, initiatives have been taken by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security precisely in order to provide us with more training and training in order to be able to meet the challenges, but also the opportunities that come from this development of the digital economy. I would also like to refer to the role played in all this by small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, the role played by startups. In Spain, there is essentially a financing problem in startups; a financing problem faced by certain financing tools, some of which are resident in the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism. You know that the National Innovation Company, Enisa, has aid programmes in the form of loans, which are obtained on better terms than those of the market, precisely to encourage companies that innovate and within which technological companies, technological startups have their role, as they do in the different lines of financing and aid that every year publishes and calls the Secretariat of State for Telecommunications and for the Information Society. I conclude by reiterating my thanks for your appeal and also for the support that has given us throughout this legislature to have a better regulatory framework throughout Spain and of course I also want to reiterate and support the words that you said, the Mobile World Congress, which has become - as I said earlier - one of the most important digital economic events in the world, is the result of the efforts of all the people behind that organization, the GSMA as organizer, but also shows an effort of inter-administrative cooperation between the City of Barcelona, the Fira, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Government of Spain. I think it is an example and paradigm that when we work together we can do great things for the economy, for Spain, for Catalonia and in this case also for Barcelona as the world capital of technology. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u188	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u189	Thank you very much. In relation to his speech, we share many aspects of it. We share how crucial the development of the digital economy is and will be even more important in the future, both for our economy and for our society, and this was the reason for the question as well. We share the need to move forward at European level, and in this regard I believe it will be very important to approve the single European market for electronic communications, and the framework for debate and positioning at European level on issues such as network neutrality, technological options for moving towards new mobile telecommunications infrastructures or the issue of roaming charges will also be important. All of them - and others you have referred to - on which Europe as a whole must speak, and we too must take up our position and have our debate. We also share that in our case on the digital economy we are making progress - and this is undeniable - and that the General Telecommunications Act is in this direction, facilitating the deployment of infrastructure. But we will also share, Minister, that it is necessary to adapt and prioritise the digital agenda and also to support specific projects of a global scope, dynamism and tractors of the digital economy and, in this regard, I believe that we can share, and share with you in your intervention, the relevance of Mobile World Capital as a global project and a dynamic tool at the service of digital development and the creation of ecosystems that help us to advance further and better in this transformation. Let me point out, ladies and gentlemen, two issues relating to the previous speeches, yours and mine. First of all, the digital economy creates magnificent opportunities, but it also presents us - as I said in my speech - great challenges and challenges, and I therefore believe that it is necessary to be very objective, very rigorous and, aware of the progress that has been made - undeniable - to be rigorous also in the evaluation of the results of the measures and of the policies that have been promoted to date and that have enabled us to move forward, but which will enable us to make further progress on the outstanding improvements and to renew the deficits that we still have. The Digital Economy and Society Index 2015, to which I referred in my first intervention, drawn up by the European Commission and which allows us to assess the progress of member countries towards a digital economy and society, places us in the position of twelve of the twenty-eight countries. It is an index that has to be used to see where we are and where we have to move further. As regards Spain, on the one hand, it demonstrates and confirms the progress made, pointing to strengths, for example, on the supply side in relation to companies and public services, to which you too, Minister, have referred in your speech; but it also shows certain weaknesses that need to be renewed, especially on the demand side in the field of digital skills and the use of the Internet. All this highlights the importance of insisting on policies and actions that affect education and training, as I said in my first intervention. In this regard, the OECD report on measuring the digital economy in a global context, without making any specific reference to Spain, also points to the importance of improving skills and the role of education and training. The European report to which he referred also places Spain's second weakness in connectivity, on which, although we are improving - it is clear, and the report acknowledges this, as well as the improvements in the deployment of fast broadband networks - points out that it is necessary to prolong the differences still existing, and in some cases substantial, between autonomous communities. I therefore believe that the resources that can be allocated from your ministry and the Secretariat of State to extend these differences are extremely important. In this context, it is necessary to promote policies that will enable us to overcome these weaknesses that the report points out and to make even more and better progress in the development of the digital economy. Before I finish my speech, I would like to briefly insist on a second question. I wish to highlight how concrete, powerful and dynamic projects of the Mobile World Capital dimension, which responds to global projects of the 21st century, translate into effective and productive instruments of digital development and enable us to visualize an unequivocal bet for this digital transformation and for a profoundly innovative economy and society. As I said at the end of my first intervention, Mobile World Capital is a project, an example of public-private collaboration and coordination, of coordination between the various public administrations, which has an undeniable tractor effect and which is an example and also a model not only in Europe but globally. Mobile World Capital shows how, from the dynamism of an instrument such as mobile, it has a deep and cross-cutting impact on the economy as a whole and specifically on society. Among all parliamentary groups and also from the Government, as well as from other institutions and administrations, it is strictly necessary...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u190	Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u191	I'm done, Madam President. ...to continue to support with the utmost conviction, that there is no shortage, but with much force, with renewed strength, projects like this. I know - I am convinced of this - that your ministry is in this line and I hope that your ministry's unequivocal support for Mobile World Capital will be continued and strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u193	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Indeed, as you mentioned, the achievement of the Digital Single Market in Europe is a priority for the Spanish Government, as well as for all European governments - this is reflected in successive Councils of Ministers in the field - and for the new European Commission, but also for the former. I would like to acknowledge that important steps have been taken with the previous Commissioner, but there are still issues on which progress needs to be made, especially in those you mentioned concerning net neutrality, roaming or, for example, having the same basis for applying to companies offering the same or similar provision of services. The Government has sent its position to the new Commission, which has strengthened the stake in the digital single market. The fact that there is a vice-president, Mr Ansip, only for the digital single market, apart from Commissioner Oettinger for telecommunications, shows what is the clear bet that you have referred to in the digital single market. Spain's position has been expressed, both personally and in writing, in the Councils of Ministers in the field. We will continue to work towards a genuine unity of the digital market for the reasons I said before, because, if not, it will be tremendously difficult to compete with the other global players in telecommunications and the digital economy, apart from for another reason, because if in the European Union we really want to achieve an economic union we have to go further and achieve a banking union, a single energy market and this single digital market. He commented on the need to prioritize projects within the digital agenda. The Government places support for entrepreneurship, support for the creation of technology-based enterprises and start-ups as one of its priorities in the field of digital policy. Apart from the policies I have already announced to you, within the framework of the digital agenda for Spain the Government will support the establishment in Barcelona of three prestigious international programmes for the acceleration and incubation of companies of the digital ecosystem. For this purpose the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism will allocate 3 million euros to the Barcelona Mobile World Capital Foundation, of which both the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism and the City of Barcelona and the Generalitat are patrons. This commitment to entrepreneurship in Barcelona joins the momentum of other entrepreneurship hubs, which also have the support of the Government of Spain, which are located in Malaga and Madrid, and which, in the opinion of the Government, will allow Spain to position as an international hub in innovation of new technologies. I therefore fully share your objective of supporting specific programmes and projects. I announce today that this is one of them. I confirm that the Government will continue to give its full support - this is the Government's commitment - to the World Mobile Congress and to Barcelona as the headquarters of the World Mobile Capital. It is one of the technological events that we are most qualified at the moment. Having in Spain, Catalonia and more specifically in Barcelona, for several days world leaders in the field of Internet, digital economy and telecommunications qualify our country as an economy that provides everything necessary to make the digital economy truly a reality within the Spanish economy sooner than later. You have also spoken of some weaknesses, because not everything is success, it is true. There are many things that remain to be done, I share what you say. As regards the demand for and use of the Internet, as I said in my first intervention, more resources need to be used in education and digital training, as well as in connectivity. We have to evaluate - it is evident - the development that has been experienced in the deployment of ultra-fast broadband mainly throughout 2014, but that is not enough. We must maintain that investment and we must make it compatible with competition between operators. [[The Lord]] This will continue to be the Government's view, the direction of the Government's digital policy. To that end, we hope to continue to count on the support of the maximum number of parliamentary groups and, of course, on theirs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u194	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u195	Let us now turn to the motion put forward by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy on the steps the Government intends to take to give a rapid, transparent and effective solution to those affected by the departure to the Bankia Stock Exchange, so that they can recover the lost and clear up the corresponding responsibilities. For the presentation of this motion, Mr. Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. In the question that preceded this motion, we point out that thanks to the Bankia case, thanks to the case opened by UPyD at the National Court, the Spanish society has been able to confirm what it knew in the background, that behind the bankruptcy and looting of the savings banks was their politicization - by political parties, trade unions, employers' organizations - and that once those banks were broken there was a flight forward, an attempt to cover the hole of those entities by capturing resources from preferentialists who invested their money without knowing the real situation of those entities because the accounts, the issue brochures did not reflect them and because the supervisors - Banco de España, CNMV - looked elsewhere. This may seem like a very strong statement to make in Parliament, but I echo the statement of the Minister for Economic Affairs in this House saying this very same thing, that the supervisors looked elsewhere. However, this very Minister in that inquiry did not offer any new information on what he intended to do to solve these problems, what he intended to do to help these scams. We are little informed in the House - the ministers prefer to speak outside it, in the media - but since then their facts have been answered by him. He didn't say anything in the House but has responded with his facts. We asked him, "Who's going to pay for this?" He did not say anything, but he replied with his facts: Bankia will only face 40% of the amounts achieved by the scams in court and 60% will fall on BFA, i.e. on the State which owns 100% of BFA. Therefore, it has responded, the taxpayer will face losses, not Bankia. He has also answered the question of who the Government was working for, for the victims or for the scammers. All the public bodies involved in the Bankia case - FROB, Banco de España, CNMV, the prosecutor's office - are working to prevent those responsible from assuming their responsibilities and for victims to recover their rights. In particular, they try to discredit the version of the experts of the Banco de España and resort to the bail of 800 million that the judge has imposed; that is, they try to take down the two main advances in this judicial process: the report of the experts of the Banco de España and the bail imposed by the judge. The minister has answered with his facts what he did not answer with his words in this House. What do we propose in our motion? Do exactly the opposite. First of all, we propose articulating, launching an out-of-court procedure to compensate already the 350,000 shareholders scammed by the departure to Bankia Stock Exchange. Why? Because this was a collective deception. It is no longer a matter of misinformation to everyone in particular; it is a matter of misinformation to all collectively, because the accounts and the issue brochure did not reflect the true situation of the entity. Since it is a general scam, we must also give it a general solution: not prolong the agony of these people having to go to court, not wait a few years for the sentence and not incur judicial costs. They must be returned to them by way of an out-of-court procedure, instead of prolonging their agony. On the other hand, it can reduce the final cost of reimbursing them, because to what is already to be returned they will be added interest of delay and judicial costs. In this way, the entity would also emerge from the uncertainty of what it is facing, because so far there are only estimates based on what is believed to be going to happen in court. The second proposal is that Bankia and those responsible for its sinking should pay. When I say those responsible, I mean advisors and managers. You may think: well, but the amounts you have defrauded are not equivalent to shareholders' losses. Indeed, but in addition to those responsible, who must of course pay - advisors, managers - there are other entities involved; there are entities that audit the accounts, there are entities that place the issue, there are insurance companies that cover the responsibility of these entities. The possibility of recovering significant amounts through this route should not be disregarded. The rest must be paid by Bankia, and not by BFA, because for many maths that the minister knows or the popular spokesman who beats me or answers me, if BFA is 100% public and Bankia is 62% public, I am afraid that if it pays by BFA we pay more than if it pays by Bankia. To this end, we propose to withdraw the remedies in court against the bail imposed on Bankia; we urge the prosecution and FROB to withdraw those remedies. The third question goes along the same lines, that from the public authorities involved in this case it is no longer obstructing the assumption of the responsibility of the perpetrators, it is no longer hindering the redress of the rights of the victims, in order to do exactly the opposite: to promote that those responsible pay and the victims recover their money. [[FROB, tax office, Banco de España and CNMV]] In particular, we promote that the report of the independent experts of the Banco de España should no longer be discredited from these bodies. Fourth and last question, these proposals should be complemented by a general and satisfactory solution for other scams, the 200,000 preferentialists scammed in Bankia. Some of them have gone to arbitration and will now be harmed, because they have given up taking legal action that could have given them greater redress. As we said to the Minister, it should be remembered that the government, the majority group and all of us are working for the citizens, for the 350,000 shareholders and for the 200,000 pre-emptive scams. Those are the interests that we should promote and not hinder. To that end, our motion, the UPyD motion, gives an opportunity to the Government, the majority group and the different groups. We therefore hope that you will support her. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to this motion. For your defence, Mrs Blanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to record our vote in favour of establishing how many measures are needed to compensate those actually injured by the departure to the Bankia Stock Exchange and those deceived by preferential participations, because of course it is a question of justice. We have tabled an amendment to the motion to request that all financial institutions that have received public money for their consolidation return it in full within a reasonable time. The management of Bankia and other credit institutions has cost Spanish taxpayers enormously, amounting to more than €70 billion, and if the money borrowed is not returned, we are all injured. We do not set a deadline in our amendment, but it is essential that the public resources provided, whether it be the financial sector itself, should be returned to the public finances to bear the costs of their rehabilitation and recapitalisation, apart from the fact that it is not the taxpayers who bear these costs. It cannot be that profits are privatized and losses socialized. Similarly, the management of these financial institutions has caused many humble, hardworking people or pensioners to lose all their life savings, and this is unacceptable and indecent. That is why it is essential to provide a satisfactory solution for all the deluded preferentialists, although at the moment it has not been achieved. According to data accumulated for FROB entities, only 56% of retailers have been returned one in three euros; the rest of retailers have been forced to redeem their money for shares. The proposed arbitration solution has therefore been insufficient and has concluded as a mere makeup operation. In addition, the reports that have revealed the disastrous management of Bankia, with abuses and abuses as serious as black cards, with reports that have revealed serious accounting irregularities, make it imperative that everything that has happened during the process of nationalization and consolidation of the financial group BFA-Bankia be clarified until the last consequences. Thus, regardless of the open judicial procedure, a commission of inquiry must also be set up involving all those responsible for this process and the governing authorities of the entity and the supervisory bodies. The degree of responsibility of the managers of these entities must be known, as well as the assessment of any abuses that may have been committed in credit risk policies. It is a committee that we have already requested in 2012 and in the need of whose creation we have been insisting as we have learned of new information about the harmful management of Bankia; but on repeated occasions the creation of this committee has been rejected by the People's Group, using its absolute majority and thus preventing light and stenographers, transparency to the process and taking on the appropriate political responsibilities. Why is there no transparency in the process? What are you afraid of? Is it true that the more information is available, the more the misappointments and defiances that prominent leaders of the People's Party have made at the head of the various entities are evident? Because, if not, it is certainly not understood that they do not allow the creation of such a committee. Moreover, we cannot ignore the fact that Bankia was formed from the integration of seven savings banks, including Bancaja and Caja Madrid, two entities directly protected by autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, which made the model of speculation and construction a flag, amassing very poor-quality assets by granting credits under rather subjective criteria, and which were also the causes of the origin of the hole that caused a financial rescue and the conditioning of the economic policy of this country for years. Of course, the Banco de España should have been stricter in its supervision, but we cannot deny that the responsibility for guardianship rested with the autonomous communities, which were directly responsible for ensuring the proper functioning of the boxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem has not been the system of savings banks itself, but its governance and management. Both in the Community of Madrid and in Valencia, the People's Party created its own legislation to avoid democratic controls within the boxes and to make unilateral appointments. This has become more than evident these days, knowing that managers, such as José Luis Oliva, president of Bancaja, made use of the box in an absolutely patrimonialized way, which has been evidenced by the serious irregularities detected by the FROB. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion and with all the above, it is clear that transparency is not only a necessity for the credibility of the financial system, but a requirement for democratic hygiene for the very money that we have had to provide all taxpayers. From policy we must act to expose managers who have had immoral and despicable actions, without being able to go unpunished, to return any public euro that has been destined for use outside their function and to compensate the injured citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reviewing last week's inquiry into Bankia in the "Diary of Sessions" gave me the feeling that the debate took place on two levels, probably both real and, of course, legitimate but difficult to reconcile politically. While the spokesman for UPyD emphasized or emphasized the crudeness of the facts - the need for rescue with public money, fraudulent exit to the Stock Exchange and deception to shareholders who came to it, deception to the preferentialists, scandal of the black cards - Minister De Guindos tried to avoid or evade political responsibilities by highlighting the measures taken by this government to address the situation of Bankia and, in general, that of the entire financial system. In the light of this picture, our parliamentary group raises the need to determine our position and the meaning of the vote. We recognize the steps and measures taken by this Government, many of them - why not - that are correct and positive; for some of them little can be criticized by this Government, although it demands less lukewarmness and courage to demand responsibilities until the end and that each one has to face his own - the Government to which he belongs and Bankia to his own, to the extent that many of them come from the savings banks that make up it, especially the Fund Madrid and the executives who directed them and were responsible when the nefarious decisions that led us to this situation were taken. The public era, that is, the citizens as a whole have already paid - and in solidarity - quite through their taxes to heal a financial system that has also deceived them, extortioned them and - why not say it - stolen on many occasions. If in the future we have to keep covering the hole we will, but they will have to explain it to us very well because we are not willing to pay what belongs to others, to Bankia or to those directly responsible for the disguise. The errors, negligence or decisions, for example, of Mr Blesa or Mr Rat and many others, must be taken by them at first instance, by Bankia after and only in the last case by the Government and the taxpayer. This does not mean that shareholders and preferentialists who have been scammed by the entity should not be fixed or resolved, let alone by way of way, with supposed responsibilities of others, such as the Banco de España or the National Securities Market Commission, whose actions - in the process of disappearing savings banks or on specific issues such as the exit to the Bankia Stock Exchange - were more than dubious. In this context, it is clear that the Government, through the FROB, must defend the public interests at stake in the courts, as proposed by UPyD in its motion, in personing itself in the case as a particular accusation, making it Bankia and not the State that compensates the injured for their departure to the Stock Exchange, facilitating the out-of-court agreement to compensate the deceived shareholders and giving a satisfactory solution to all the preferentialists, also deceived. It seems to our parliamentary group that these demands, which we fully share, are very correct. We want those affected to be able to move on and reasonably see their fair demands met and that the bill be paid fairly and fairly, in proportion to each other's responsibilities. I recognise that this Government and Mr De Guindos in particular, as I said earlier, have taken satisfactory steps, but in our view insufficient steps. Citizens demand justice and responsibilities. As we agree with the motion, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left has the floor, Mr Coscubaila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group shares the need for this debate, which today is prompted by the motion for a Progressive Union and Democracy; a debate, of course, which we have held in this House from all possible perspectives, because it is redundant both in relation to the interests of the preferentialists, of the conniving shareholders, and to the obligations of the government and of the public institutions. We share the approach, especially with regard to the proposals it makes: the role that FROB must play, how to compensate people who may have been scammed by a clearly - apparently - fraudulent exit from Bankia to Bolsa and also who must assume and how these consequences should be paid. Let me tell my friend Don Álvaro Anchouelo that we have some small discrepancy in the presentation of reasons that I cannot fail to highlight, because it seems to me to be a deep topic. One thing is anecdotal and I was about not to quote it, but, as you have highlighted in your presentation, I feel compelled to say it. I do not doubt the role played by the Progressive Union and Democracy - together with others - in the activation of the judicial process, but we should all be careful not to feed the myth of the adams. This country is beginning to be unbearablely oversized. Paradise is full of danas, everyone has been the first to do things. Let's try to self-modulate among all of us. Secondly, there is one thing that seems more important to me. As I have said many times, I insist that I do not share the mechanical and systematic relationship between the crises of savings banks and political parties. It is clear that in the case of Bankia or some entities such as Bancaja there is no doubt whatsoever. The interference, control and manoeuvring that occurred by certain political parties, also using institutions for their own benefit, are obvious, but that is not generalizable. I would like to remind you that if you look at the financial sector map in our country right now, you will find financial institutions - in the Basque Country, in Catalonia - in which there has been a significant presence of the institutional public sector or political parties without the occurrence of these unfortunate situations in Bankia and others. Instead, entities without any kind of public presence and absolutely managed by prohoms - Catalonia is an example -, people in principle of recognized prestige, have ended exactly the same. Let us be cautious in the exercise of that mechanism. In any case, the most important thing is that we share the essence of the motion. If one day the minister wants and lends himself, we should have an in-depth debate on the FROB and the Sareb. I know that these are different things, but they are two instruments put in place by this Government. Both are clearly improveable from the point of view of transparency, such as the farms that appeared in the Andalusian law. The transparency of the FROB is clearly improved and the lack of diligence that it uses in some cases in relation to the defence of public interests is greatly improved. It is clear that the FROB should have been actively and insistently characterized, not just by appearing or facilitating. Secondly, with regard to those who may have been conned as shareholders at the Bankia Stock Exchange, the experience of other previous situations - subordinated debt, preferential debt, etc. - clearly shows the importance of acting quickly and, at the same time, doing so with agile mechanisms that take precedence over arbitral proceedings. In this we fully share the motion before us, because otherwise, as Mr Ancholous has said - and we fully agree - there are risks of loss of rights. People look for ways out and do not always find the right one because it does not exist at that time, as is the case with the choice by the courts. What to say about who has to pay the consequences! The Government has decided one thing: to socialize the losses - as has been said before - and, once the losses have socialized, to return to the market to these financial institutions, in some cases with important business. We're radically against it. But if also when they are in the market, when they have shareholders who are not the FROB in an important part as happens in Bankia, it turns out that when there is a hole they also have to go to Dad State, forgive but you have invented socialism for the rich and, truth, we prefer it in the opposite direction. If socialism is to exist for someone, it is not for the rich precisely. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Riera has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before this UPyD motion I would like to recall the sensitivity that my group has always shown to those affected by the preferences and in the Bankia case, which has been demonstrated through initiatives, amendments and positioning. That said, we understand the political interest and especially the electoral revenue that gives UPyD the follow-up of the Bankia case since it was the political group that filed the initial complaint about it. We appreciate very positively the actions of political parties as true instruments of control of our institutions and for this very reason we understand that control over the institutions of the General Administration of the State, in this case through the FROB, the main shareholder of Bankia, must be carried out with the utmost rigour possible. This is because we understand that the interests of both the institutions and the FROB, the financial institution and the citizens must be adequately protected in the sense that their interests must be safeguarded, but in turn we must be very careful in the analysis of the large financial institutions and financial conglomerates, which we believe require major specialists in capital markets and listed entities to assess whether the departure to the institution's Stock Exchange was indeed fraudulent. We must not be led by the holder or by more populist measures of court when it comes to prosecuting and imputing people, but by a great rigour and pulcrity in the analysis of this situation, which this House must not resolve, since it must be the courts, supported by these expertises, that determine the responsibility of the entity or its administrators for the purpose of determining who the compensations belong to, and not generating a continuous tension through the presentation of such inquiries, beyond expressing the sensitivity, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, on the issues that concern us. In relation to the points of the motion, regarding the first of them - that the FROB is personified in the case as a charge and pushes the procedure - we believe that the FROB is already personified in the case opened against Bankia as a particular charge representing the citizenry. With regard to the second point, the measures necessary for Bankia and not the State to compensate the injured, we believe that it should be at the final resolution of the dispute where responsibilities are determined. It will be at this time, and not before, when it is necessary to address who should be responsible for the compensations to those affected. With regard to point three, which calls for the articulation of an out-of-court procedure, we agree; out-of-court mechanisms have been put in place for the resolution of these conflicts, to minimize both the cost and the time taken to resolve them, and in Catalonia I would like to point out in particular the role of the Catalan Consumer Agency, which has been very relevant in cases such as that of the Caixa d'Estalvis Laietana. With regard to the last point, to proceed to a comprehensive and satisfactory solution for all deluded preferentialists that will put an end to the prolonged suffering they have been suffering since their savings were taken away, we agree. The public authorities must unite and redouble their efforts to provide solutions to the problems of citizenship within the existing legal framework, this is our responsibility and the sensitivity of my parliamentary group responds to this. But on this last point, in the group I represent, we do not understand how this reference to those affected by the preferences is included in the debate on the exit to the Bankia Stock Exchange; it is an issue that has been very much debated, which we have talked about a great deal in the Commission and in plenary and for which important solutions have been found. With regard to the preference groups, I cannot fail to remind them and tell them that if there is a group which has worked with the utmost conviction since the zero minute and which has put forward initiatives and amendments to resolve this, in order to solve those affected by the loss of their savings, that is the Convergence and Union Group. An example of this is the solution given to the 6,000 affected in the Maresme, in Mataró, in Catalonia. Therefore, our sensitivity on these issues, which affect many people, many savers, is very demonstrated, but we also understand that we must be particularly rigorous when dealing with these economic and financial issues, but above all social ones. We have to do things right and with the utmost rigour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riera. For the People's Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can no doubt say that this is the Government that has made the greatest effort to resolve the financial crisis in our country, which has been most successful in healing and making viable entities such as Bankia, and which has also been concerned with solving the problems of those who have been caught up in the deception of the preferents. It has demonstrated not only its interest and concern in improving our economy, putting the country on the path of recovery and job creation, but also in solving social problems that others had left there. He started doing nothing else to take possession. One of the first steps taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs was to clean up the balance sheets of banks and savings banks. A maximum transparency exercise was then carried out by auditing the entire financial sector in order to know exactly where we were and how we were, with this in mind, and it was possible to regain credibility and confidence in it. I remember that this measure received angry criticism from some opposition spokespersons, who understood that by discovering the reality of the sector what was being put at risk of recovery, and yet it has not been so: transparency has improved confidence. Finally, and most particularly, this Government undertook to take measures to help resolve social problems - I insist - measures such as arbitration, which has removed more than 300,000 preferentialists from the limbo in which others had left their investment. These initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, were taken not to rescue the banks, as some of them are committed to repeating, but to prevent the tax collectors, the holders of current accounts, the holders of savings cards from losing their money; and here we are not talking about 24,000 million Bankia, but we could be talking about more than 200,000, and that seems like there are some who are obviating it. The ultimate goal was, and is, to regain confidence in our financial system, and it has been achieved; moreover, in the case of Bankia, it has been achieved to heal the entity and it has been achieved that it has benefits and that it is in a position to respond to any present and future responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to this sanitation exercise, Bankia will be responsible for its present or future responsibilities. I agree with Mr Coscubiela that there is a certain adanism; in reality what there is is a certain creationism. It seems that the crisis began when this Government arrived, when it took office in December 2011 and it seems that then everything broke out. No, ladies and gentlemen. There were others who before, ruling the Socialist Party, denied that there was a crisis, denied it for years and did not take any steps to resolve it. He assured the President of the Government that our financial system was in the Champions League of the world economy. That was the headline. Antipatriots were eventually called those who warned of the existing risk. A housing bubble was fed that led to the construction in 2008 of more than seven hundred thousand homes in this country, which is more housing in the same year than the total production of housing in France, Germany and England together. And a mortgage bubble was also fed. And in view of the lack of financial resources, ladies and gentlemen - and I will recall this too - it was allowed to place preference on hundreds of thousands of small savers, trapping them in a veritable corralito. This is the reality that we had to face, and I am surprised by the selective memory of some, who speak of some people or personalities and forget, some by territory and others by political orientation, of Caixa Catalunya and Narcís Serra, accused along with 52 advisors. It has been this Government that has brought these issues to the courts for investigation, as have Bankia's black cards. It has been the Government in an exercise of transparency. As for the UPyD motion - which we are not going to support, of course, Mr Ancholous - it only reflects the duality, the contradictions of that dual strategy that UPyD maintains, a procedural strategy and another parliamentary strategy, and therefore we are not going to support it. In defence of the public interest, the FROB is a person in the Bankia process; it is an injured person and you have asked him to be removed from the process, and we are convinced that if he were a person as a private prosecution, you would also have asked him to be removed from the process. Secondly - and he has made it clear right here in this parliamentary rostrum - they intend to anticipate the outcome of judicial decisions. You have already pointed out with names and surnames who are responsible and it seems to me that this is an exercise of popular justice that does not seem to me - other spokespersons have pointed out - to be very convenient; it does not come to the case either of the political situation, nor even of what is the responsibility of the courts. Finally, they call in their motion - at a time when they are awaiting clarification of the possible responsibilities of Bankia's managers on their way out to the Stock Exchange - for an arbitration procedure for shareholders, while calling for a general solution for preferentialists. What they come to say is whether or not they get reason in the courts or in arbitration proceedings, it is all taxpayers who pay these losses. That's what they're saying. If it's not in court, if it's not in arbitration, you disapprove of reason and taxpayers pay for it. That's what his motion says. Ladies and gentlemen of UPyD, I ask you to recognize something. If they are not able to recognize their own contradictions - and I am also telling some other political group - at least they are able to recognize the fruits of the consolidation of the financial system that this Government has carried out; or they are able to recognize that a solution has been given to the preferentialists; or they are able to recognize what everyone recognizes, that thanks to the policies of the People's Party Government we are creating jobs and recovering the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not - and others - able to recognize this, you will end up not recognizing yourself, which is what is happening to you. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. Mr Anchuelo, there is an amendment tabled, what are you going to do with that amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u208	We appreciate the socialist amendment, but it does not substantially change what we have already proposed, and we prefer our motion to be voted on in its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-11-CD150311.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. That vote will take place tomorrow Thursday. The meeting was suspended. It was one and twenty minutes in the afternoon. http://www.congreso.es Calle Floridablanca, s/n. 28071 Madrid
