ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u1	The meeting was resumed. Questions to the Government, and in this particular case to the President of the Government. He asked, first of all, Mr Jon Iñarritu, Member of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Rajoy, what will your Government support for the peace process in Colombia be?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u3	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u4	Thank you very much. There is political support, as we have expressed in the course of bilateral meetings between me and members of my Government with President Santos and the Government of Colombia, as well as in multilateral forums in which Spain has participated. By referring to the last ones, I will quote the Ibero-American Summit in Veracruz and the meeting between the European Union and Celac in Brussels last June, as well as an agreement of this House that the Government has assumed. I should like to point out that Spanish cooperation has long been supporting the relevant areas of action in the peace process, such as comprehensive agricultural development or institutional strengthening. We are studying a contribution, from another point of view, to supporting demilitarization after the end of the conflict and we are also working on the political and financial support of the European Union. We have proposed to create - it was agreed at the European Union meeting with Celac in June, to which I referred earlier -, for a post-conflict scenario, a trust fund that brings together the contributions of the countries of the European Union and other Member States, and at the same time to promote it, we express our willingness to contribute to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u6	Mr Rajoy, first of all, we would like to congratulate you on your Government's commitment to the peace process in Colombia. Now you will understand our astonishment and that of the majority of Basque society when you see that in another conflict, such as the Basque peace process, you have decided not to do anything. Irresponsibly, he has decided to continue as if nothing had changed. In Colombia, you support the drivers of peace; here, on the other hand, you act and keep the same speech as Mr Uribe. President Santos said that all conflicts are different but that they all have common denominators and that he had used the Northern Ireland Good Friday Agreement as a model for reaching an agreement with the FARC. One piece of advice, Mr. Rajoy: listen to him and learn from him. Every time Amaiur during this term has brought the Basque case and asked Mr Rajoy for steps and courage in this matter, you have answered us with two messages; first, making requests to Amaiur for convictions and rejections that, by the way, our coalition has done for years; and secondly, you have told us that you will comply with the law, and that the law forbids you to dialogue and negotiate with organizations qualified as terrorists. But has the People's Party not already met with ETA in the past? Or don't you push negotiations with the FARC now? Or even more, has your government not negotiated and even paid ransom to jihadist organizations in the Maghreb and the Middle East? In such cases, curiously, the law has been no obstacle, has it, Mr. Rajoy? Because you know it's not about legality, it's about will. At this point I will no longer ask you about the Basque case as you know it is your answer, but I would like to know how you will push the Colombian peace process in the face of the sabotage attempts being made by the most ultra sectors, such as Mr Uribe's. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u8	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Colombia is an ally and friend country and is also a sovereign country to decide on matters affecting it. They asked us for help and we gave it to them. Everything the Colombian Government is doing has a full legal and constitutional link in that country. We are not going to assess the substantive aspects of this process because, of course, it is not our competence. I do mean that we are talking about an armed conflict that has caused more than 200,000 deaths and 6 million displaced people, which means that. I ask you not to build analogies by comparing what you think suits you. There have not been two sides faced here, there has only been one gang that killed people and what is now up to that gang to end this situation definitively is to dissolve; then the law will come and here there is nothing to negotiate, but to delegitimize terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: CONSIDERING that the GOVERNMENT has undertaken its obligation, which has been legally established, to submit a report on the extent of development of the supplementary social forecast and on the measures that could be taken to promote [[EAJ-PNV]] YOUR DEVELOPMENT IN THE SPANISH STATE, WHAT PROVISION IS THE GOVERNMENT CONCERNING? 180/001362).
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u10	He also asked the President of the Government to ask Mr Aitor Esteban of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. The additional nineteenth provision of Act No. 27/2011 of 1 August 2011 on updating, adapting and modernizing the social security system provides that within six months the Government shall submit to Congress a report on the level of development of the supplementary social security provision and on the measures that may be taken to promote its development in Spain. The law entered into force on 1 January 2013 and, therefore, the deadline for referral ended on 30 June 2013 two years ago; all of this, of course, was framed in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact Commission, which spoke of an insufficient degree of development of supplementary social security in the Spanish State and the need to further strengthen it. In recent times, however, what we have experienced has been a plurality of speeches from different ministries of the Government, and this plurality of speeches has, in our view in a negative way, affected the future definition of the system; a system which the President of the Government has praised on many occasions. Various debilitating measures have occurred; from the discourse of the State model - an example is the unconstitutionality resort that was put against the Basque law of supplementary social provision -, truncating a line maintained for more than fifteen years and a work that had been described as excellent by this Government and the previous ones; from the discourse of reduction of public expenditure, because there has been a prohibition of institutional contributions to EPSVs and to pension plans and it has been necessary to negotiate over and over again the possibility that those institutions that wished to do so could continue with their contributions; from the discourse of collective bargaining because the role of the provincial agreements of a lower-than-state scope that dynamized the enterprise pacts has diminished the subject of EPSVs; from the discourse of strengthening social security, in defining how the bases of contribution are calculated. All this calls into question advanced projects, important projects and models to be followed. That is why I urge you, Mr President, to submit this report as soon as possible and to put forward a policy that will boost voluntary social security in the State.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u12	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. It is true what you have said in connection with Law 27 of 1 August 2011, which provides for a report to be submitted to the Courts within six months on supplementary social security schemes, and it is also true that not long ago the Governor of the Banco de España has said some sensible things in relation to this matter, and one of them is that the public authorities must stimulate this savings to the extent possible. What has happened in this legislature is that, as in so many facets, priorities have to be set. We find ourselves - as you know - with very poor social security accounts, with a partial and unfinished pension reform and with frozen public pensions. As you will understand, the main obligation of my Government during this legislature was to develop and supplement the reform of the public pension system to ensure its sustainability because, as you know, article 41 of the Spanish Constitution obliges the public authorities to maintain a public social security system for all citizens. Therefore, the priority has been to order the social security accounts, there has been a major reform in the area of public pensions - as you know - it has also been possible to make a revaluation to attend to in some of the budget years and public pensions have never been frozen. From there, logically, I agree with you that it is now up to you to work towards further development of complementary social protection instruments. The Government is fully aware of the relevance of these instruments and I will also remind you that we have adopted some measures that promote and make more attractive these instruments to which we are referring. The maximum annual management and deposit fee that pension plans can implement has been reduced by 30%, transparency in pension plans has been promoted by extending the information that the participant is required to receive before hiring an individual pension plan and within the framework of the tax reform. With regard to liquidity, the right to early payment of consolidated rights has been extended, the ceiling for reductions in contributions to social security schemes of the taxpayer's spouse has been extended, long-term savings have been promoted with some measures, and the tax treatment of benefits in the form of income received has been improved. It is true that we have resorted to a law of the Basque Government on voluntary social security entities of the year 2012 and it is true that in 2014 the Constitutional Court has given us the reason. So, just... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE IMPACT OF HIS POLICIES ON SPAIN HOUSES? [[File number 180/001365]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u15	He asked the President of the Government, Mr Pedro Sánchez, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, I would like to know what consideration you deserve from the impact of your policies on family spending.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you know, we have experienced the hardest economic crisis in decades, which has affected all sectors of the economy, and logically Spanish households. Luckily, last year we started growing. This year 2015 things will go better and if we persevere with the policies that we have put in place, certainly things will improve more in the future for the Spanish economy and for the homes of all our compatriots. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, you should find in the families the ally for the just economic recovery of the country. Families, after all, are the ones that can raise domestic demand, those that can generate activity and those that can make businesses create jobs, but for that you have to do a completely different economic policy than you have done against the working middle class; not sink it, but strengthen it and raise your living conditions. Mr. Rajoy, this is so. When I hear you on many occasions raise messages of self-congratulation with regard to economic recovery, you should talk to the 2.5 million long-term unemployed who have seen their social coverage cut; you should talk to the 13 million Spaniards and Spaniards who are at risk of social exclusion according to the INE, of whom 2 million are boys and girls who suffer from child poverty; you should talk to those families who, according to the INE, have also seen their household spending cut by 7% over the past year; and the paradox is that precisely those households, while having seen their spending cut, have had to raise educational and health spending as a result of the cuts you are making in the welfare state in our country, the rise in university fees and the pharmaceutical co-op. You should also talk, Mr Rajoy, to those 8 million Spaniards and Spaniards who declare less in the income tax of natural persons, for whom the tax reform you have proposed will only represent an average savings of 52 euros a year, while for those who earn more that average savings will amount to 72,000 euros a year; 52 against 72,000, Mr Rajoy. It is not the crisis, it is a government that uses the crisis as an excuse to perpetuate a model of inequality in our country. The question is not whether there is recovery or no recovery, but who recovers with their policies, and with their policies what is evident is that the upper class is increasingly higher and the middle class is increasingly lower. It should be remembered that you, Mr Rajoy, came to the Government defrauding the Spanish because you said you were going to do one thing and as soon as you came to the Government you did the opposite. [[Protests]] Yes, you did the opposite, and now you intend to make the Spaniards believe that in four months you will amend everything you have dismantled in forty-two. I tell you one thing, Mr Rajoy, simply and simply, you have no credibility with regard to the Spanish. [[Several Members: Oh!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u21	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Sanchez, I'm going to remind you of a few things. [[Rumors]] The Spanish economy at the end of 2011, when you left the government, was on the verge of bankruptcy and Spain was about to intervene, and 3.4 million Spaniards had lost their jobs. And what about the Spanish homes? They were very bad, like the economy itself; they increased the number of households with all their unemployed members continuously; prices were rising; purchasing power was lost; the debts of families and households were increasing; households were reducing their spending, first, because of the lower incomes they had and, second, because of the uncertainty about what might happen in the future; average household spending was reduced by 12% between 2008 and 2011 in constant terms - perhaps this is the most relevant figure of how the Spaniards were at the time - while OECD and Eurostat data showed how inequality and poverty were steadily increasing in Spain. Fortunately, as a result of the policies that have been carried out over the years, these things are beginning to be corrected. Today the number of households with all their members in unemployment is decreasing -185,000 less in the last EPA -; today the number of people in unemployment is decreasing for more than one year -247,000 in the last EPA -; time is falling in employment; unemployment is falling - more than 400,000 people have found a job in 2014-; prices have been falling for months, which is good for the purchasing power of the people and for competitiveness; private indebtedness - this is a very positive fact - has been reduced by 425 billion euros, 36 points of GDP since the end of 2011; in 2014 consumption and household expenditure have improved for the first time in seven years; retail sales are rising; sales of large companies; car registrations; sales of housing and mortgages. That is, a change has been made to a situation. It is true that much remains to be done, but that is what we are doing; that is why I say that we must persevere in these policies and not go back to theirs, which brought us here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.- Mrs López i Chamosa utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u23	Madam Chamosa, you do not have a fixed time to intervene! You don't have any questions for the plenary. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] - OF THE DEPUTATE, DON ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY: HOW DOES THE SITUATION OF THE RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS IN SPAIN AFTER THREE YEARS AND MEDIUM IN THE GOVERNMENT VALUES THE SITUATION OF THE RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001366]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u24	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency. It is formulated by Mr Antonio Hernando of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, I ask you about your assessment of the situation of rights and freedoms in Spain after three and a half years of government and, more specifically, about the right of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u27	Mr. President, thank you very much. The rights and freedoms in Spain function when the Constitution is respected, when the rule of law is sought to be strengthened and when the welfare state is upheld. That is what this Government has done: to defend the rights and freedoms of citizens in any area, including the right for which it asks. Here and also outside Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u28	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u29	Madam Vice-President, last week the International Press Institute forwarded a report drawing a worrying picture of freedom of information in Spain. After the adoption of the law bites, a journalist who disseminates images of a police intervention in a demonstration can be sentenced to a fine of 30,000 euros. The same journalist can be seized of the material of his work and can also be stripped on the public street to investigate if he has more information material. However, the Spanish courts cannot prosecute or investigate the death of a journalist abroad who has covered a war because of his reform of universal justice. In Mariano Rajoy's Spain, two police commissioners can be arrested in a fulminant way, without any kind of investigation, simply because they met with an opposition deputy in broad daylight and in a public place, and the president of the Public Television can come to the Congress of Deputies and boast of being a voter of the People's Party now and always, while on the public radio he will cease his responsibilities to a journalist and an editor who dared to give as the first news of that day's news the death of our colleague Pedro Zerolo. [[Applauds]] In Mariano Rajoy's Spain, Vice-President, it is prevented that the secretary of the Board of Government of the National Audience is the candidate who had the approval of the unanimity of the Board of Government to maneuver from the Ministry of Justice in favor of a candidate who today we already know had a very important curriculum: she had been a university partner of the current President of the Government, 1972-1977, of the Faculty of Law of the University of Santiago de Compostela, Minister, Vice-President. To you, these facts and the description of them may seem very radical, but I assure you that your fear strategy no longer infuses a lot of fear into a citizenship that is much more mature than you believe. The superiority and arrogance with which you usually answer my questions is pathetic and your lies and promises no longer deceive anyone, Mrs.Sáenz de Santamaría. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u30	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u31	We're done, Mr. Hernando! [[Rumors]] It turns out that after your grandiose question about what happened to the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards in this legislature, all you were concerned about was the fate of two people. You have much to explain, who was the spokesman for the Interior and right hand of Mr Pérez Rubalcaba, why you use your question to be interested in the fate of two policemen when throughout the legislature you have not worried about the fate of 68,000. You have a lot to explain. [[Applauds]] When you want, Mr Hernando, you and I are having a debate on rights and freedoms, although you might be interested in doing so in another forum, because what you would have to explain is why your party supports councillors in municipal groups that neither defend ideological freedom nor respect religious freedom nor respect the rights of victims, whether they be victims of the holocaust or terrorism, and criticise prison policy. [[Protests]] Maybe that debate... [[Mr Hernando Vera utters words that are not perceived]] Stop insulting me, Mr. Hernando, that I read your lips. [[Rumors]] Perhaps that debate, Mr Hernando, should be raised in the hundreds of municipal plenary sessions in which you are supporting radicals who do not respect even the minimum of human rights. That's the pathetic position of your group. They are losing everything because they are losing themselves and, above all, they are losing respect for their voters and the rest of the citizens. [[Rumors]] Mr Hernando, worry a little bit more about citizens' rights and a little less about their rinsing within the Socialist Party. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THE CITIZEN SAHARAUI TAKBAR HADDI, CURRENTLY IN HAMBER'S HOUSE IN THE PALMS OF GREAT CANARIA, IN HIS APPLICATION TO THE GOVERNMENT OF MARRUECOS OF HIS CHILD'S DEPARTMENT, PROVIDED FOR AN INDEPENDENT AUTHORITY? [[File number 180/001360]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u33	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Mr Cayo Lara, from the Plural Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u34	Thank you, President. Minister, does the Government intend to protect the Saharan citizen Takbar Haddi, who has been on hunger strike in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria in demand of the Moroccan Government of her son's corpse, after carrying out an independent autopsy?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lara. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u36	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. First of all, I would like to say that in the face of the tragedy to which you refer the Government wishes to express its condolences to Mrs Haddi. Secondly, I would like to reassure you and say that we have conveyed the concern that this has caused in Spanish public opinion to the Moroccan Government. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u37	Excuse me, Minister. Please, please clear the Chamber for those who do not want to stay. We are responding to the question asked to the Minister. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u38	Thirdly, a humanitarian case like the one we are dealing with, when there is an open judicial procedure, cannot be exploited, cannot be tried to seek a political drift. That's why I'm going to limit myself to two things: setting the record and passing on what we're doing. As you know, Mr. Lara, Mr. Haidala was wounded in a reyerta on 31 January, was transferred from the police station to the hospital in El Aaiún, when he returned to the police station he was seen that the wound was still bleeding and was transferred to the hospital in Agadir, where he died. Ms. Haddi travelled to the Sahara territories to collect the body and refused to do so until there was an independent autopsy, in view of which the prosecutor ordered the burial. Mrs Haddi started a hunger strike which, as you know, ended on June 16. As to what the Government has done in this case, I will tell you that we are in permanent contact with the Moroccan authorities, following up constantly on what is happening through our embassy in Rabat - today I will meet with the ambassador and the government delegation in the Canary Islands -. The police transferred to the prosecution in El Aaiún the fact to which you refer and the investigation remains open. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the Government respects - and would miss more - the peaceful demonstrations, but condemns the assault on the Moroccan consulate in Las Palmas and the steps taken to ensure that this event does not happen again.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u40	Thank you. Minister, I'm going to extend the story to you starting at the end. I have seen the scenes of that alleged assault on the consulate and, obviously, they passed because they let them manifest a just claim; that is in the recording of the videos. But I want to go to the fundamental story. Mohamed was a young activist for the self-determination of Western Sahara who was attacked in early February by Moroccan settlers in Aaiún and died a few days after the aggression. Four months have passed and the body remains in the hands of the Moroccan Government. Takbar, the mother, has been on hunger strike for thirty-six days before the consulate and I have been there, in solidarity with this cause that has sympathy for many citizens of our country. That is why we have asked him and asked him, and I urge him to intercede with the Government, that Takbar receive his son's body with an independent autopsy. This is fundamental. We want an investigation to be opened that will determine the causes of death, police action and also hospital action, that will obviously stop the aggressors and make themselves available to justice, that will obviously clear all responsibilities, that the siege will be lifted at the family home in El Aaiún and finally that the family will be compensated. We're not talking about a street fight for common causes, we're talking about settler-to-colonized aggressions, aggressions that have ended a person's life. Claiming the right to the homeland today in the Sahara continues to cost people their lives. As you know, human rights continue to be violated in the occupied territories; the Moroccan Government is failing to comply with all UN resolutions on the rights of the Saharawi people. We continue to consider it a brotherly village, since it was our fifty-three provinces and some exhibit the Spanish card with great pride. Spain remains a de facto administering power because international decolonization standards were not met and the territory under our protection was allowed to be occupied by force. It therefore intervenes on behalf of the Government and does not, of course, allow interference or obstacles in the claims to be brought before the Spanish courts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u41	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u42	Mr Lara, the defence of human rights is a priority of this government and that is what we are talking about in our bilateral contacts and in the context of the strengthened dialogue between the European Union and Morocco. I would like to highlight here two aspects of Council Resolution 2218 which is pleased that the competence of the military courts has been limited and Morocco has ratified the Optional Protocol to International Cooperation against Torture. Finally, I would like to point out to you that the Government's position on the substantive issue is that we want a political, just, lasting, mutually acceptable and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u43	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE Satisfied with its form of lawmaking? [[File number 180/001369]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u44	Questions to the Minister for Justice. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Meritxell Batet of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Are you satisfied with how it is being legislated?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Batet. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I am not part of the legislative branch beyond the presence in this House as a minister of the government, but as a witness to the legislation being done during this legislature, I believe that very important laws are being reformed in the area of justice, rights are being strengthened, the judicial system is being strengthened and the public service of justice is being strengthened. The Legislature at this stage is doing a great service in favour of justice. I must therefore conclude that the legislative work of this period seems very satisfactory to me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u49	Minister, there are examples of bad legislative techniques in all legislatures, as I say, but it is curious that in a government full of state lawyers the greatest historical destruction in legislative technique is being practiced. Let me give you four examples of these bad practices. First, an abusive use of the decree law, more than seventy in this legislature. Every 15 days you have passed a decree law. Secondly, they present amendments through your parliamentary group that change from top to bottom the bills that you send because the government does not legislate, but sends bills and change from top to bottom the bill implies that the amendments that we have tabled by the rest of the groups in this House are of no use because they run out of purpose. Wear parliamentary groups that we can amend the bills. Thirdly, they present amendments that have nothing to do with the purpose of the bill being amended; there are dozens of examples, I will put one to you. How do they submit amendments to the Act on Assisted Reproduction in a Bill on Museums, Archives and Libraries, Minister? And fourthly, the poor legislative quality is pure and hard. The case of the Criminal Code is paradigmatic, that the Government has introduced a bill with errors affecting penalties, affecting limitation periods and affecting the jurisdiction of courts of sixteen offences, Minister. The Socialist Parliamentary Group not only denounced it, but tabled an amendment to correct that error, and you and your parliamentary group did not even consider it. All this, which is indisputable facts, affects the quality of the laws, but above all it affects the quality of our democracy, Minister. You may refuse to negotiate our vote by applying the roll, regardless of debate, deliberation and dialogue, but what you cannot do is usurp the right to exercise, as representatives of many citizens, by amending and improving bills. Minister, to be intransigent is not to know how to listen and you practice this intransigence in a radical way, which affects representative democracy and, above all, affects politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs Batet. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u51	Thank you, President. Your Honor, since October, when I joined the Ministry of Justice, there have been so many legislative projects that have been brought to this House, and I sometimes note with surprise that if we change the contents of the projects seeking rapprochement, seeking negotiation or seeking consensus we are criticized, that if we do not accept amendments we are criticized. We didn't just get it right; the truth is we didn't just accept it. We do not know how to find the capacity to seek consensus with parliamentary forces. However, I am surprised that in the Criminal Code on terrorism, the Sephardic Law and the Victims' Statute you have voted in favour of the laws. I would therefore like to highlight the consensus capacity that has existed at this time to accept amendments from all the parliamentary groups, more than four hundred on the occasion of the Criminal Code. I would also like to remind the previous speaker today, Rosa Aguilar, that I am sure that she will have a magnificent development at this new stage and that she has contributed significantly to the work that has been done during these months. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws are certainly always perceptible, the legislative technique is better, but I believe that precisely the flexibility and dynamism in the work of this House, of the committees and of the papers, are making it possible to obtain good laws, flexible laws, laws adapted to the current needs, laws that have certainly been the subject of multiple amendments, and all of them with meaning, in the search for a better functioning of our justice, as I say, and in the search for speeding up and strengthening of rights. I care more about the end result than the road there. The path has to be orthodox, the path has to be appropriate to the rules and so it is being in all cases. However, it also seems to me that the majority in the People's Parliamentary Group legitimizes it democratically to introduce amendments, to vote on the laws, to adopt them and to achieve the final result that we are achieving. With regard to the Criminal Code, I recommend that you consider the matter. It is merely a doctrinal matter; the less serious crimes of the past are now minor crimes, the penalties are the same, the prosecution will be more agile through the trial of faults and therefore... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u52	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE GONZALO JOSÉ DEPUTATE PUIME ORDER, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW IS THE EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION REGULATION GOING TO CONTRIBUTE TO STRENGTHENING THE PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF CITIZENS? [[File number 180/001363]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u53	Question also to the Minister for Justice by Mr Gonzalo Ordóñez, Member of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we live in a time when millions of personal data are transferred and exchanged between the five continents in fraction of seconds, a vast technological progress that in a constant exponential progression incorporates renewed means of access and use of all kinds of data relating to the spaces in which a person develops, his home, his work, his purchases, medical consultations, the media or any other activity he undertakes. This global dimension in obtaining and storing information on such intimate aspects of each person's life, their visualization and use anywhere on earth, undoubtedly requires a legal framework of protection and protection. Justice ministers of the European Union have just given full support to the European Commission's initiative to draw up with Parliament and the Council of Europe a general regulation on the protection of harmonised data which will enable Europe to be incorporated into the digital age by drawing up a single regulation for the twenty-eight countries. Therefore, relevant aspects such as legal certainty in the European environment, consumer and business confidence in digital services, protection for companies operating outside the European Union, the implementation of the single window or the right to forget are going to be essential principles that inform this new regulation. Minister, can you explain to us to what extent this European Data Protection Regulation will help to strengthen the effective protection of citizens' rights? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u55	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u56	Thank you, President. Mr Ordóñez, thank you for bringing this matter to the House. I do not know whether it generates much political controversy, but it seems to me very important that the agreement that has been reached in the European Union to advance data protection in today's society, in the digital society, in the technology society, a society where the protection of personal data is certainly very relevant. Last Monday we were visited by the European Commissioner responsible for these matters and we had the opportunity to highlight the work that has been done for four years in the European Commission to make progress in this area. In my opinion there are four basic virtues, the strengths of the new European data protection regulation. Firstly, it strengthens the data protection of all citizens and gives Member States greater flexibility to develop and adapt this regulation to specific sectors; for example, the public sector, which is undoubtedly one of the most general data-management bodies. Secondly, it is a regulation that facilitates the fulfilment of obligations. This data protection legislation has emerged in recent decades with great strength and also with some rigour, particularly in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have to comply with it. Thirdly, this regulation will promote innovation and development and will be particularly sensitive to all aspects of the Internet and new technologies. Fourthly and not least, it fosters the culture of the protection and care of special groups, such as minors, who are especially protected. Your Honor, there are many outstanding issues and logically I don't have time in three minutes to expose them, but I will mention aspects such as the right to forget - which is a very relevant right again -, the portability of data, the right to opposition on the part of citizens, the obligation on the part of national supervisory authorities in relation to their independence, the systems for the resolution of disputes... Finally, there are many and very numerous developments which the regulation - which is now going to the trialogue stage and we therefore hope that it will be adopted next year - will incorporate in the field of data protection and which will provide us with a legal framework of greater guarantee, protection and security in this field. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF DOING AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: HOW JUSTIFYES YOUR TAX POLICY TO INCREASE DISABILITY? [[File number 180/001370]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u58	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration by Mr Pedro Saura, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how does it justify your fiscal policy to increase inequality in Spain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u60	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Saura, I can't justify it in any way because it's not true. What we have done with tax policy is contribute to the equality of the Spaniards. Since the beginning of the legislature we have been taxed because we had a hidden public deficit inherited from the previous socialist government and that rise affected large companies and higher incomes. This is not an opinion, it's figures; just as it's not opinions but figures the consequences of the tax rebate that started in 2015. By the way, let's see if Mr Seville is able to explain to Mr Sánchez what is the progressive tax on the income of natural persons and that he does not compare the 50 euros of a quota that can be proportionally much higher than the 12,000 euros of higher income, that they are paying proportionally much more tax rate according to their economic capacity, as determined by our Constitution. Mr Saura, I am sure that Mr Sevilla, who has a lot of experience, will introduce Mr Sánchez into the concepts of progressiveness and tax equity and, therefore, at the end of the parliamentary term we will have a much more standardized and streamlined debate and we will not hear statements that are not sustained in any reality. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. The hidden deficit is of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party. And let's see if you explain to Fedea why from your tax reform in this country the evolution of taxes has been regressive. Mr Sánchez, Mr Sevilla and I are doctors in economics and, therefore, we fully understand what is progressive and regressive. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, what you should do is explain to Fedea in her latest report on your tax reform why indeed the richest in this country take the most important part of tax reform. The richest 1% benefit more than 50% overall of all taxpayers in the country; that is, 1%, 193,000 people benefit more than 10 million people who have less in our country. The richest 1% takes 1,230 million euros, a tax gift that you make to the richest in the country. But with that tax wreck, Mr Montoro, you are wondering how you are going to run for the next election. You have the answer: with the Budget Bill for 2016, you know that you are not going to pass it in this Congress of Deputies because Mr Rajoy no longer has social credit. Therefore, it is a toast to the sun, it is the first election rally that you and Mr Rajoy are going to make to the Spaniards in that general election campaign. What you are going to do in this draft State General Budgets is to promise all the Spaniards just what you have not done during the entire legislature, you are going to promise all that and even, Mr Montoro, you are going to promise that you will lower taxes, but the Spaniards think: body to body, that Rajoy and Montoro come and promise that you will lower taxes. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u64	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. The economy is very broad and doctorates are done on many subjects. I think Mr Sánchez has done this about Spain's economic diplomacy in the world, that is to say, it has nothing to do with tax equity, on which I really felt this morning that I had a slight ignorance. [[Rumors]] Taxes have already dropped in Spain, they have begun to fall, and with the new law of the IRPF the average discount is 12.5 %, but it is higher for lower incomes. At the end of the reform, the average final reduction for 14.4 million taxpayers with incomes below EUR 24,000, which is 72 % of the total, will be 24 %, and for incomes below 18,000, will be 58 %. So, what do you do, Mr. Saura? You deny reality, because it's already lowering the IRPF, it's already coming down. I'll tell you something else this morning. As tax collection is improving, as we really have better compliance with the deficit in all of our public administrations, the government's program is to continue to use... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u66	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GUADALUPE MARTIN GONZALEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: IS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CONSIDERING THAT POLICIES DEVELOPED IN PENITENTIAL INSTITUTIONS COMPLETE WITH THE ACQUIRED COMMITMENTS? [[File number 180/001371]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u67	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. The first is Mrs Guadalupe Martín González, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u68	Does the Minister consider that the policy developed in Prison Institutions complies with the commitments made?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, yes, it does comply with the commitments made, which logically have in common the fact of meeting the objectives of the penitentiary institution assigned constitutionally and by our legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u71	Thank you, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u72	Minister, in your term of office at the head of the Ministry of the Interior, you have had very little interest in prison policy. There are no constitutional guarantees today because rehabilitation and reintegration are not real. Every day negative news in the media: treatment of some inmates in favor; security problems; built and closed centres; modules of unopened mothers; therapeutic units cut and almost dismantled; their refusal to administer - yesterday's news - new treatments for hepatitis C to prisoners. And a very serious personnel problem: the lack of coverage of hundreds of jobs, even to the lower hourly presence of health personnel. But there is one thing he has fulfilled: the privatization of the external surveillance staff of the centres to award it to friendly companies. Minister, the excuse was the commitment to employ hundreds of workers who were serving as escorts, and they have been thrown away because they put the economic interest ahead of the given word. More than 2,500 escorts defending victims of terrorism, abandoned. The victims were their flag, they took them to the streets, they used them, and now they do not defend either the victims or those who ensured their safety for years. It is very crude to read the letters that we receive from escorts who live in poverty and who go to social services because their Government does not protect them and does not keep their word. Explain it to them, Minister. You no longer guarantee anything, you could not even assure this Member that she will not be spied on when she leaves the Chamber for asking this question. You don't have to spy on me. I accused myself, my fault. I'm accused of meeting with some prison officials. Do you assure me that none of them will be ceased by this intervention? Because I do assure you that this Member does not have the slightest purpose of the amendment. But you like to impose penances more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u73	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, when you say according to what things come to mind that saying that the thief thinks that everyone is of his condition. [[Rumors]] Did you spy? I'm telling you so clearly. Because it seems a lie that you may not even think that from the Ministry of the Interior you are spying on deputies. [[Rumors]] That would be a very serious crime. If you think about it and you repeat it - and then you're going to ask me and I'm going to answer it very clearly - I'll start to worry seriously because it means that maybe you were in the past doing practices of those characteristics. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I'm going to the point. All existing treatment programmes are maintained and some have been implemented: intervention programmes in family and domestic violence, crime prevention programme, programme with sexual offenders and abusers of minors, programme of intervention in road safety, programme against child pornography on the Internet, programme of intervention against perpetrators of gender-based violence subject to alternative measures and programme against animal abuse. All these are new in relation to the previous ones, which are maintained. I can also tell you that there are currently 12,269 inmates working in prison workshops, there has been an increase in training, guidance and job placement plans, and the number of inmates receiving regular and non-regular education has increased by a percentage. As far as prison health is concerned, Your Honor, the prison institution has, as you know, been integrated into the institutional committee of the national strategy for hepatitis C, with the general objective of ensuring equity in access to new therapies for this highly prevalent infectious disease, as is evident in prison. The provision of rehabilitation activities in prison for inmates with drug addiction problems has been expanded, inter alia, through new UTE units - educational therapeutic units; there are 24 of which 10 have been created in this legislature. And he's participating in the National Drug Plan... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u75	Thank you, Minister. [[Protests in the guest gallery]] You can't intervene. Evacuate them. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PILAR GREAT FISHERY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR believe that his policy on the planning and implementation of the expenditure is in line with the principles governing the performance of a public official? [[File number 180/001372]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u76	We continue with the questions addressed to the Minister of the Interior. I beg your silence, please. Mrs Pilar Grande, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, asked.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, without getting nervous or scolding, can you tell me whether you believe that your policy on planning and implementing expenditure is in line with the principles that must govern the performance of a public official?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Grande. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u79	My answer is yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u80	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u81	Minister, an answer as predictable as it is uncertain. On the contrary, their management of public money is at least arbitrary and capricious. First ministerial whim, use 2 million euros of public money to build a Civil Guard barracks with 15 agents, certainly no one had asked because they have not one side, but two barracks less than six kilometers away. This in a village, Fitero, 43 square kilometers and 2,062 inhabitants, with an average of 70 crimes per year. Therefore, no operational reason but family ties, Minister, since Fitero is the village where his father was born, where his mother lives and where you yourself go on vacation to take the waters to the spa. And from Navarre we go to Cuenca, in whose capital you, as Minister of the Interior, close the central office of the pre-date for the issuance of the DNI. More than a hundred people are unemployed. But curiously you open a foreign office and for the DNI in Tarancón. If I had opened a police station or asked Mrs Cospedal not to close the emergency room so that the taranconeros did not have to do 85 kilometers until the hospital emergency in Cuenca, it would have seemed reasonable to us because there are emergencies every day, Minister, as you well know, and the DNI and passport we take them out or renew every ten years. Minister, if you can please explain this to us about Tarancón, Cuenca and the DNI office because if we do not also have to think of a ministerial whim. Allow me a personal license. [[Show a photo]] Let me introduce Kira, my pet, who, like many pets, is a member of my family and when traveling she does it in the transport, in the hold of the plane and after payment of the fees. Can you assure us, Minister, that you do the same with your bitch Lola? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u82	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. If this is the level of control of the Ministry of the Interior by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is to be concerned. Look, the principles to be adjusted for the planning and implementation of public expenditure are advertising, transparency, non-discrimination and equal treatment. I'm going to talk to you first, obviously, about the headquarters of Fitero, a barracks that had been located in Fitero for ninety-six years and which closed a general manager named Luis Roldán. From that moment there was unanimity in the municipality to claim that the Civil Guard, which had been there for almost a century, would return. The economic development of this population resulted in an increase in the crime rate of 33 per cent in the period 2009-2013, above the regional average of 15 per cent and the regional average of 22 per cent. Now, I'll tell you one thing: that barracks was opposed by all the forces that now make up the outside Parliament, except the Socialist Party of Navarre, the People's Party and UPN. There was a very intense debate in the Navarra Foreign Parliament and I have to say that the then Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Navarra, Mr Jiménez, behaved in an extraordinarily dignified manner. There's the 'Diary of Sessions' of the Foral Parliament. What worries me is that you now take the position you took in your day, and that you keep, those who want the Civil Guard to disappear from Navarre and disappear from the Basque Country. [[Rumors]] That is what Mr Jiménez said on behalf of the Socialist Party of Navarre. 'Diary of Sessions' of the Parliament of Navarre. Pamplona. 12 December 2013. I refer you to that point and I refer you to your accusations, which are those made by Bildu, those made by Geroa Bai and those made by the United Left in that debate in the outside Parliament. As for the other question you ask me, I will tell you, Your Honor, that the new offices opened throughout this legislature in relation to the issuance of documents by the National Police Corps are: Lalín, in Pontevedra; Torrevieja, in Alicante; Alcañiz, in Teruel; Fraga, in Huesca; Vinaróz, in Castellón; Zafra, in Badajoz; Collado Villalba, in Madrid, and Tarancón, in Cuenca. The following offices are currently under study: Arucas, in Las Palmas; Castro Urdiales, in Cantabria; Vilafranca del Penedès, in Barcelona; Sant Boi de Llobregat, in Barcelona; Roquetas de Mar, Almería and Tarazona, Zaragoza. If you want, I'll tell you more; I'll just tell you, in conclusion, that in relation to... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u84	Thank you, Minister. Quiet, please. I pray silently. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FELIPE JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CONSIDER THAT HIS PERSONAL DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL POLICE BODY AND, SPECIFICLY IN THE MATTER OF REWARDS AND DISARMAMENTS, RESPECT THE NEUtralITY TO WHICH HIS RESPONSIBLES ARE OBLIGATED? [[File number 180/001373]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u85	The questions to the Minister of the Interior continue. Mr Felipe Sicilia, Member of the Socialist Group, asks
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, your decisions on rewards and decorations in the National Police Corps have been more than questioned, they have generated great indignation. But what is truly outrageous and regrettable, Mr.Fernández, is his fears, his particular punishments to some members of the National Police Corps. The last, just over a week ago, when he ceased his responsibilities to two chief commissioners for having coffee with a socialist deputy. Mr Fernández, do you think this is a fair and equitable decision? Since when, Minister, have you stopped drinking coffee in the National Police Corps? [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u87	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you are a police officer and therefore you know perfectly well what legal rules govern the functioning and behaviour of members of the Security Forces and Bodies. He may have forgotten what he learned at Ávila's academy, but he certainly knows it. Article 5 of Organic Law 2/1986 on Security Forces and Bodies states that the following are basic principles of action by members of the Security Forces and Bodies: Acting in the performance of their duties with absolute political neutrality and impartiality. Having said that, I must tell you in relation to the case to which you refer that the decision was taken by the Directorate General of Police and the Deputy Director of Operations of the Police. I support them, of course, but they did so in the exercise of their powers, responsibilities and because they held positions of trust. It has been done within the framework of legality, but if you want me to cite precedents, I will gladly quote some in the reply to you who, of course, endorse what has been done, since what you have done in the past has also been endorsed by the fulfilment of these principles of political impartiality when it comes to positions of trust. Therefore, with the same freedom under the law appointed to them, with the same freedom they were ceased. Yes, Mr. Trevín, I'll give you a case. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u89	Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u90	Minister, because I haven't forgotten what I learned in Ávila is why I know that no cop can be stopped for having coffee with a congressman. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]] But, Minister, you have stopped two chief commissioners from having coffee with a deputy and you have not stopped the Commissioner-General for Information who put your daughter into an anti-terrorist operation so that she could make an article in the newspaper of the university in which she was studying. [[Rumors.-Applause.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] If serious are the cessations, Minister, much more serious is that you use the police to follow and spy on the activity of a socialist deputy and then filter it into the press. Because just as the twenty-two pictures of the DNI, minister, of the Catalan judges who signed a sovereignist manifesto, leaked to the press, they have now leaked to the press a photo in which Mr Trevín appears having coffee with two chief commissioners. And with what intention, Mr. Fernández? I'll tell him. The first is to warn the police that meeting with some socialist deputy can be very expensive, it can cost them until the end. And secondly, to warn my colleagues in the Socialist Parliamentary Group that they are following us, that they know what we are doing, where we are going and where we are meeting. That is why we demand, Mr Fernández, that you stop using the police for their dirty and petty policy of attacking the adversary. Mr. Fernández, can you assure my colleagues in the National Police Corps that you can continue to enjoy a coffee with me without any reprisal when you return to your police stations? And can you assure me that my colleagues are going to look after my safety when I leave Congress instead of spying on me? [[A Member of Parliament: Very well! Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u91	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. You've made some accusations that I hope you can prove. You have said nothing more and nothing less that from the Ministry of the Interior you have been spying on some commissioners, portrayed them drinking coffee with a deputy, with Mr Trevín, and that these photographs have been given to the press. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Yes]] All this is radical and absolutely false. [[Rumors]] All this is radical and absolutely false, and the accuser has a duty to prove that his accusation is true. Freedom of expression and the right to information is a fundamental right and if the Ministry of the Interior were to spy, as you say, on deputies, or anyone else outside the law, it would be a very serious crime, and you as a police officer, by saying that, are offending your 70,000 colleagues. [[Rumors and Protests]] You're offending your 70,000 mates, I'm telling you so clearly. [[Applauds]] The Ministry of the Interior has nothing to do with these photographs and their dissemination. [[A honourable Member: No, what's going on!]] You'll believe me or you won't believe me, but I hope you prove it. I found out about that by looking at the cover of the newspaper that posted that information, is that clear? And I said that... [[Rumors]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u93	Thank you, Minister. I pray silently on these questions. - OF THE DEPUTY DON ANTONIO RAMON MARÍA TREVÍN LOMBÁN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR RESPONSE IN HIS DEPARTMENT TO THE FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS GUARANTEEED BY THE CONSTITUTION? 180/001374).
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u94	Question, also to the Minister for the Interior, by Mr Antonio Trevín, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u95	Minister, how many times have you asked the question of Vargas Llosa in recent weeks: when did Peru start to be fucked, Zavalita? I mean, when we started to twist this legislature. They began to twist when you, drunk of an absolute majority, believed yourselves to be unpunished; and from there you made a use of abusive power. Minister, I open quotes: Rosalía can't do the walk. I close quotes. Barcenes, to President Rajoy. And Rosalía didn't do the walk. Because the next day, police officials - at her orders - escorted her into and out of the courtroom with complete secrecy. There began to work the political police: Barcens, the Gürtel, the corruption cases of members of the People's Party, continued to mark the legislature And you responded by increasing the political police: State resources in favor of the People's Party. And now you are going to answer me as Minister of the Interior of the Government of Spain, not as the head of the guards of the People's Party: Do you say - and you keep it here - that constitutional rights are respected in your department? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u96	Thank you, Mr Trevín. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I say to you again: the National Police Corps is made up of 70,000 men and women, and there are trade unions representing that institution which, by the way, have recently held elections. You said I sent the party guards. You tell the unions and you tell the 70,000 cops. In any case, they will read it because it appears in the 'Diary of Sessions'. This is the concept you have of the National Police and you have been delegated to the Government and sent to the Police and you have sent to the Civil Guard in Asturias. He was therefore aware of the limits of the exercise of power, which was deviating power and confusing the police with political police. Anyone who accuses you of that is unworthy of a person who has had such responsibilities and clearly offends the police as he would offend the civil guard in his case. [[Rumors]] I must say, since you speak of political police - you have used the term -, a way of demonstrating with facts and not with accusations and arguments such as those you make - unworthy, of course - is to see to what extent the margin of discretion is reduced in the provision of police jobs, because to less discretion less politicization and to less politicization greater degree of professionalism. When we arrived at the Government, Your Honor, the catalogue of jobs included 5,841 posts provided by the extraordinary system of free designation. To this day, 52% of the posts of free designation have been reduced. In commission of service there were 5,699 and today there has been a 30% reduction. That is, less and less discretion so that there is more and more professionalism; not what you did. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u98	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Trevín.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u99	Minister, today is Saint John's Day of 2015, I say this to you because I see you disoriented in priorities and in political times. As in the time of the Social Political Brigade you prioritize your resources primarily for your police political clique and not for other things. For example, you give them a plane to go to Switzerland, charge them with retired red medals, pay them exorbitant diets, send them abroad to golden retreats. And in the meantime, judges like the Brugal case, of corruption in Alicante of the People's Party, you denied police personnel to continue investigating. Or the police on foot, who kick the streets, have them without bulletproof vests and in many cases without recognizing their heroic acts. Minister, you know that at the time of the dictatorship a part of the police was reserved to watch the opposition, who they were talking to, who they were drinking coffee with, even who they were sleeping with. But in a democracy the deputies of this Congress have to be free to meet with the citizens that is necessary for our work. And a Democrat never takes reprisals against a citizen for meeting with a representative of popular power. [[Applauds]] I'm afraid you're closing your political cycle and closing it back to its origins. That is why I demand that there should be no cessation of this intervention, that the police be reinstated and that I make sure that when I leave the Chamber I will not be spied on in any case. Thank you so much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u100	Thank you, Mr Trevín. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to make it quite clear to you that Commissioners Telésphoro Rubio and Santano Soria have been relieved of their duties by the Deputy Director of Operations in the exercise of their powers and within the framework of legality. They were destined for positions of trust and have been relieved. If you wanted to press me with these questions, you are wrong; you will remain relieved in compliance with the law governing the functioning of the Security Forces and Bodies. [[Rumors]] They can meet whenever they want but in the right way. As you will understand, I have more important things to do than follow you and spy on you. [[Rumors and Protests]] In any case, since the clothes are torn, I will tell you, Your Honor, Rubalcaba fulmina to a chief commissioner for talking to Cospedal about his escorts. February 2010. He was the head of the escort protection unit to talk about the protection of the Secretary General of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] So, a little less than... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u102	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON CARLES PÀRAMO I PONSITE IN RESTITUTION OF THE DEPUTATE DON JORDI XUCLA I COSTA, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF FOOD: IS THE GOVERNMENT OF SATISFACTORY TO HAVE LICITATED 5,5 NEW KILOMETERS OF N-II DEVELOPMENT WORKS IN THE GIRON PROVINCIAL DURING THIS LEGISLATION WITH PERIODS OF 40 AND 32 MONTHS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT THAT 44 KILOMETERS OF REFERRED TO IN THE GIRON DECLARATION? [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001364]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u103	Question to the Minister for Development, by Mr Carles Pàramo, from the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u104	Minister, the N-II in Girona continues to have no calendar for its total unfolding. We're disappointed. What are you going to say as an excuse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u105	Thank you, Mr. Pàramo. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Pàramo. From the Ministry of Development we have allocated more than 910 million euros to Girona during this parliamentary term, of which 180 million to the road network and a very important part to the N-II.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u108	In this legislature the Spanish government of the PP has acted poorly in the N-II in the lands of Girona. The 7 kilometers of the Sils-Caldes section of Malavella must be completed; works awarded in PSOE periods, a work that has accumulated up to fifteen months of delay. Apart from that stretch, as I said from the previous legislature, the bids launched by you have been limited to 2.7 kilometers in the Sils-Maçanet stretch of the jungle, with a period of execution of thirty months - why almost three years if it is only 2.7 kilometers?-, and 3 kilometers from Medinyà to Orriols, with a period of execution of forty-two months, from evil to worse. Even today neither of the two works have been initiated. Meanwhile, in Girona, 55 kilometres of N-II remain untapped. And above all, for more inri, a novelty without feet or head: the government of Spain of the PP has decided to rule out the unfolding of the N-II between Macanet and Tordera with the argument that we can describe as ghostly and mind-blowing, the proposal of connection with the fourth belt. In short, on paper, you, Minister, are the most able to give the image of dealing with the N-II in Girona, but at the end of the legislature a lot of noise and few nuts. The owners have charged the amount of expropriations after years of litigation, the few works that continue do so with a slowness that is exasperating for the thousands of users and we continue to unconcrete about what remains to be done. In short, a lot of gesticulation for results that are embarrassing to others. Where's the real investment? For what purpose are the execution deadlines of thirty-two months for 2,7 and 3 kilometres? Nothing of the Pyrenean axis and nothing of the variant of Olot. Why is the Government of Spain, of the PP, reluctant to invest in real and serious ways in Girona? Why have we seen 30-kilometre auctions on the La Plata highway when in Girona they were 3 and 3 kilometres long? Why are you taking this hair? Why does the Government of Spain not present us with a rational plan, which should contain...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u109	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, I must tell you that you are missing the truth because the kilometers to which you refer are not certain. Your Honor, we have worked for 90 kilometres; 20 kilometres of work are currently under execution or in service, 20 in the third lanes of the A-7, 50 kilometres in project and more than 100 million euros have been invested: 58 in the national N-II and in the AP-7 42 million. As you well know, the previous government gave the Government of Catalonia a stretch of the N-II, the stretch of the Maresme between Montgat and Tordera. The State has transferred 97 million euros and you, the Government of the Generalitat, today have invested zero. You will have to explain why, because you are responsible for a stretch of that road. Secondly, we have all the work going on, Your Honor, and you know it well. In the section between Tordera and Macanet we have tendered, awarded and started the drafting of the conditioning project. We finished it this year and we're going to bid it. In the same section we have tendered and contracted the works of improvement of the two links of Tordera. All preparatory work is under way, the work is already awarded and in two or three weeks it will be under way. Between Macanet and Girona, in the stretch of Macanet-Sils we have written the project and bid, awarded and started the works, which are in execution, Your Honor. Also, as you know, the project of Vidreres is approved and in the Sils-Caldes section of Malavella we have reactivated the works and completed them, Your Honor; we have completed them in December 2014. In the section of the Circumvalation of Girona, we have executed and put into service, three new links of free use of the toll freeway; in the section between Girona-the border, in the section Medinyà-Orriols, as you know, Your Honor, we have drafted and approved the project and we have bid and started the works, and in the rest of the sections are the projects in progress. Anyway, Your Honor, you're from a province where, thanks to this government, the AVE has arrived and we're doing the N-II and we're going to finish it when it wasn't even on the project...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u111	Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE, DON MIGUEL ÁNGEL HEREDIA DÍAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT THINKS TO PARALIZE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LOCATION? [[File number 180/001367]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u112	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. He asked, first of all, Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when does your government intend to paralyse the implementation of the Lomce?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u114	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Heredia. You have dual training, in teaching and in science and also with very good curriculum, but in law you do not have much because, if you had it, you would know that the Government - neither this nor any - has no capacity to paralyse a normative instrument, such as that law, whose timetable of application is included in the law itself. Therefore, by virtue of the principles of legality and normative hierarchy, this Government cannot paralyse, neither now nor ever, a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u116	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u117	Then, Minister, I will tell you some other question: do you know that it was a socialist government that achieved the universalization of education, that could be studied on equal opportunities, because the best investment a country makes is investment in education? But his Government, excused by the crisis, had carried out the hardest attack on public schools throughout the history of democracy, turning what was a right into a privilege. I am going to give you two data: the first of them is that spending on education has fallen to levels of twenty-five years ago, having cut by 7.5 billion euros; the expenditure of a family with a university student has been fired 50% as a result of their cuts; today there are 33,500 teachers less, 6,000 of them university students; today there are 600,000 boys and girls who no longer have textbook help; you have loaded the dining grants, the only hot meal for many children in this country, something absolutely indecent when one in five families is at risk of exclusion; you have fired the price of university tuition and you have cut the number of fellows and the amount of scholarships by more than 600 euros. To this is added his cursed inheritance, which is the Lomce, the worst law of education and the most unjust. It is a deeply ideological law, very right-wing, confessional and regressive; a law that has become imposed, without consultation, without dialogue with the educational community and that has been a historic milestone: the fact that everyone, absolutely everyone, is against it. He knows perfectly well that it is a law that will last what is slow to hold new elections. In this regard, Mr Wert, I will tell you that you are going to pass into history as the worst minister of democracy, and you are going to do so because you have left public education as a yard, because you have borne the expectations and the future of many students, and because you have prevented the son of a mason from studying equally in our country than the son of a banker. This was Rajoy's education policy and that's why he rewards him and sends him to Paris. I am one of those who think Paris is too close for the much harm you have done, but I only ask you one thing: go wherever you go, take with you this unjust and harmful law, the Lomce. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u118	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, Mr Heredia, the considerations you have made - there is no need to insist on it - have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of your question, which was about the implementation of Lomce. Now, if you want us to talk about the educational results of one stage and the other, I do it with great pleasure: for example, I start by telling you that, when you left the government, the early educational abandonment of this country, which is the most cruel and radical form of exclusion that can be practiced with young people, amounted to 26.3%, and that when we leave the government, when we finish the legislature, when we have the data from the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2015, I can assure you that it will be below 20%, that is, that there will have been the greatest reduction in early school leaving that has ever taken place in a Spanish legislature. For example, I can tell you that when you left the government the budget allocation in the scholarships and general aid programmes for the study amounted to 1,168 million euros and that this 2015 budget year and the previous budget year, 2014... No, don't make head gestures because the figures in the yellow book are figures in the yellow book. As I say, it amounts to 1,415 million. I will tell you that at the moment we have the gross rate of access to university, calculated on the population of university age, higher in history, almost two points higher than you left, so that there is not a single indicator in the field of education that has not improved in these years and that is worse. And, above all, the most important thing is that through the Lomce the rules of the game are changed so that things continue to improve in the years to come. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MADDALENA VALERIO CORDERO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION POLICY IN THIS LEGISLATION BALANCE? [[File number 180/001368]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u121	Question also addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Mrs Magdalena Valerio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u122	Minister, the truth is that someone else was already expected in your office today, but I see that, even to your regret, we still have you here to answer our question: What do you do with the government's educational policy in this legislature?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Valerio. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Valerio. I believe that the status of deputy authorizes many things, but one of those that does not allow is to be attributed the assessment of the moods of each one. Mrs Valerio, I'm afraid you're not the one to say whether I'm here to regret it or with great pleasure, which is the situation I'm in. [[Laughter]] Secondly, what is the balance sheet I make? A politician who has reasonable ambitions for his country - or any person, does not need to be a politician - can never be satisfied with the balance sheet of his activity, less in an area such as education, where what needs to be done is so much that not one legislature but four are not enough time to meet all that demand. Having said that, and as I have just replied to your colleague, Mr Heredia, there is not a single indicator - or one - in the educational field that has experienced a worsening or a setback in these years. Still, there's a lot left to do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Valerio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u126	Mr Wert, it must be that I have a problem, like many Spaniards, that we hear in the morning many chats and lately all talk about your mood. What are we going to do to him! I will not repeat to you the forceful facts that my colleague, Miguel Ángel Heredia, has just reminded him of, and that will pass him on to history as the minister of unanimity. Yes, you usually, of course with Mr. Rajoy's okey, obtained the unanimity of the educational community to strike him, the first one in which all participated: teaching staff, non-teaching, students and students and associations of mothers and fathers. You have also obtained unanimity from all groups in this House, with the exception of your own, to commit to repealing your law, the Lomce, once you come to the opposition and change the parliamentary majority which, fortunately, we have very close to happening. You have also achieved virtually the unanimity of all the Autonomous Communities against Lomce: twelve of the 17 Autonomous Communities are prepared not to implement the second stage of their reform. There is uncertainty, insecurity and, unfortunately, there is a beginning of a chaotic course. I assume you are going to tell me that you are proud of your law, but you have no doubt that you will be remembered for being the minister who applied more cuts to the detriment of the quality of public education, the one who achieved the greatest regression in equal opportunities, the one who approved the biggest rise in fees and, of course, the one who did the least to maintain a fair scholarship system. The truth, Mr Wert, is that in these three and a half years you have been the protagonist of the greatest educational setback in our recent history. If you wanted to have a leading role, you have succeeded, on many occasions because of your low grades in the polls. Mr Minister, in the past month there has been a great deal of expectation as Mr Rajoy was loosing the margarita from a possible ministerial remodeling; it seems that he has no more petals left and in the end the thing has been left in nothing. In the meantime, you are still waiting for your departure to Paris with your lost team, no secretary of state since May 30; an unsustainable and unsustainable situation. Every day you look more like a minister in office - yes, Mr Wert - of a government in office. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Valerio. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Valerio, you have an interest in speaking of me far superior to what I may have. It must be an obsessive thing. [[Laughter]] I thought that you were asking me about the balance sheet of education policy and the balance sheet of education policy, Mrs Valerio, is what I have formulated to your colleague, Mr Heredia, and many more things: for example, the creation of 300,000 more places in vocational training, which is the basis of the decrease in early education abandonment; for example, the highest degree rate at ISCED level 3 that has ever been, two points above what was -. Mr Heredia - this has to do with the data you have given - how can you say that educational investment is now that of twenty-five years ago? I know you're a biologist and not a mathematician, but if you want to sit down for two afternoons and see the numbers, because there are things you can't say. [[Rumors]] In the comparison of liquidated budgets, 2014 is about the same as 2008 - look at the distance that there are up to twenty-five years - and the rate of access to university - as they talk so much about equal opportunities - is now the highest in history. Therefore, that balance you paint has no relation to reality. However, there is a lot to do and we will apply... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u129	Thank you, Minister. - OF JULIO LLEONART CRESPO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S PARTICULAR UNDER FAMILY UNDERSTAND? [[File number 180/001361]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u130	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, by Mr Julio Lleonart, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since there is no provision in the Spanish Constitution or in the ordinary legislation defining the family and there is a broad consensus in defining the family as a group of natural persons related to each other by marital or kinship ties, I would like to ask the Minister: What does the People's Party Government mean by family? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u132	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. MP, you made a definition that looks a lot like what the Royal Academy Dictionary does about what is commonly understood by family. However, if you look at the Family Plan, we do not introduce a definition, not even that of the dictionary, but we intend to encompass and respond to the different family models that exist in our society and to be sensitive to how it is evolving and changing a central element to ensure the full development of personality, which is a constitutional right, which has been acquiring different nuances and is constantly changing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u134	Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u135	You talk about adapting to new models or new sensitivities. Good. Yesterday the Government answered me to the question I raised about the case of Mariella and Lourdes, who had started assisted reproduction treatment and, through a legislative amendment that violates rights retroactively, were left out of such treatment. The government gave me a lax, unconcrete, shameful and lacking the slightest empathy. On the other hand, what about the Government's failure to include children born by pregnancy under the new Civil Registration Act in order to facilitate their consular registration abroad, condemning these children to a legal limbo? Let me tell you about Leire, a heterosexual woman, married, with a rare disease, who went to the surrogate pregnancy or the cases of Juan, Carlos, Álvaro, Antonio José, Francisco José and another Juan, single-parent families who also went to the surrogate pregnancy, all of them, without being able to receive maternity help because the INSS denies it, although justice recognizes it. The INSS appeals again, justice recognizes it again and the INSS has come to take it even to the Supreme Court by cassation. Aren't these cases family for the PP? Are these various sensitivities and evolutions of society not recognized? Will the PP government seek the rights of minors and their families solely on the basis of an ideological issue? What's the matter, that you can only accept Laura's Master's family and I'll wait for her until marriage? Look, Minister, let yourselves be left with empty, resounding, ideological and preoccupying laws of the families, of all, absolutely of all families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u136	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u137	You raise two questions. The first case he invoked concerned assisted human reproduction and those services provided from the portfolio. I would like to say that from a health point of view there is no reference to the sexual orientation of people who can access these treatments. They are women or men who have in some way accredited the difficulty of having children and are therefore not in a condition of fertility. These people, regardless of their personal situations or orientation, are provided with treatment. This is the question from a medical point of view and therefore does not affect or affect the family model that these people have. Nor is this claim that these women were suspended as a result of a legal change in their sexual orientation is true. That's simply not true. Any woman, regardless of sexual orientation, is provided with the status of a partner she has, provided she cannot have children naturally. With regard to subrogation, we defend - and have seen it in child protection laws - the best interests of the child. We will always protect and protect minors, regardless of how we have considered in Spain the subrogation or the circumstances of couples who go to other countries where, say, mothers are rented and where this subrogation situation occurs. We see it in Greece or in the United States. Children in the end are registered and protected in Spain, as it cannot be otherwise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u138	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u139	Interpellation by the Group of the Plural Left on the measures the Government intends to take in the face of mortgage evictions. Mr Sixto has the floor for the defence of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday Amnesty International itself presented a report on mortgage executions and the right to housing in Spain; a very interesting report that I am sure that the minister, if not in his entirety, at least in short, knows and is the fundamental object of the inquiry we are asking him at this time. [[The lady]] The aim of the report, apart from recognizing the situation, giving a series of personal and specific testimonies and presenting a series of data, is to talk about the dysfunction that exists between what the Spanish Constitution recognizes, in its article 47, and the reality that occurs on a daily basis in the execution of mortgages; a dysfunction that leads to asserting the Amnesty International report - something that we can share many people - that there is an absolute misadjustment and a lack of compliance by the Spanish State with its commitments not only constitutional but recognized in international treaties. In this regard, the report degenerates various treaties signed by the Spanish State, from the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, signed by Spain in 1977, to the Convention on the Law of the Child, the International Convention for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination or of Discrimination against Women, etc. They are international conventions that oblige the Spanish State to develop and protect the right to housing understood in a broad sense, not only as the right to have a roof of better or worse characteristics, but as the right to the home that individuals and families have, a right that has not been developed in the Spanish State and that is actually unprotected. This is something that happens to the third chapter of Title I of the Constitution. The guiding principles of social policy, as recognized by the Constitutional Court, serve only to inform the legislative principles, but they are not applicable nor can their protection be sought before a court if they are not developed by law, and there we have a very serious problem. In addition, in the area of housing, the competences are shared between the State and the autonomous communities, as you well know. Virtually all autonomous communities have developed specific housing laws, laws that in some cases fail when they seek to develop the protection of the right to housing. All this is the situation that Amnesty International, in a masterful way, has come to put into sulfate at this time. It provides some data - I will stop later on the data and the review of housing policies - that are shocking. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, there have been 578,546 judicial executions in the 2008-2014 phase. The 2013 figure speaks of 25,811 evictions and in 2014 there have been 28,800; 3,000 more evictions between 2013 and 2014. He also talks about the first quarter of 2015 - specifically, on June 5 he published the data - in which there has been an increase of 2,1 %. For its part, the Banco de España talks about 98,000 evictions of habitual housing between 2012 and 2014; a very high number of evictions that is directly related to the crisis situation that we continue to suffer. As many as certain indicators vary, we continue to suffer from a crisis situation. The level of unemployment is very high - it rose from 8% in 2007 to 26% in 2013 - and still more than 1,80,000 families are with all their members of working age unemployed. If we are not living a real social tragedy in this country it is because there is a mattress of families, social networks, neighbors and very important non-governmental organizations and social platforms, such as the Platform for Mortgage Affected, that are looking for solutions and alleviating the problem with which the families find themselves and that the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities are not able to solve. Minister, that's the reality. The Amnesty International report analyses guarantees for the protection of human rights through the protection of the right to housing. It raises a first issue, which is the lack of rigorous analysis of data by public administrations. There is a very enlightening paragraph, which says that data on launches and foreclosures come mainly from three sources: the General Council of the Judiciary, which works with judicial launches; the National Statistical Institute, which talks about the Property Registry; and the Bank of Spain, which works with bank data. Interestingly, the Banco de España has only begun to differentiate the mortgages that are executed on families and households from the rest of the mortgages since 2013. Thus, we are faced with a first problem: the public administrations do not have adjusted, real and disaggregated data on what is happening in the entire mortgage execution. We have data from various sources and only thanks to reports such as Amnesty International - and not those that are being done by public administrations - are seen together and we see the total reality of what is happening in our country. Amnesty International's report says that there is a lack of an assessment of the impact of policies developed by public administrations. It is true that measures have been taken and I am sure that you, Minister, will put them to good use in your speech. The code of good practice adopted in 2012 and signed by virtually all the banks has yielded results that you will now disaggregate, but which are clearly insufficient for the thousands of families that are seen outside the narrow margins that mark that code of good practice and that are also lacking judicial guardianship. There is a social housing fund which has a very limited contribution to the social housing policy, also absolutely raquitica, carried out by the public administrations; then I will give some more information. A legislative reform of the Civil Procedure Act on unfair terms has also been developed by the Government. This is an issue that has had to be developed by obligation, after rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, because the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the doctrine it is willing to maintain, does not offer a positive recognition of the rights of the third chapter of Title I of the Constitution if there is no timely legal development. Recently, this same year, the Second Opportunity Act was passed, which was criticized by my colleague, Joan Coscubiela, from this very rostrum, because we understand and understand that it is manifestly insufficient. However, it seems to us soon; I do not know whether the minister will offer today an assessment of this Second Opportunity Law. Sareb, the society for the management of contaminated assets, a society that has been done more to save the banks, to save the mortgage problems they had, than to try to offer an alternative or collaborate to a social housing policy that, as I say, has been manifestly rachitic, when it has not served as a business opportunity for certain members related to the People's Party, because there are certain real estate companies in which they are certain relatives of former government presidents. Minister, Amnesty International clearly considers the policy developed by public administrations to be insufficient to ensure compliance with Spain's international obligations on the issue of housing. There is a lack of an independent assessment in each eviction process of the proportionality of the measure, because we are talking, Minister, no longer of evicting an industrial ship - that is not the subject of this inquiry - but of the eviction of families that have no other place to go and that when they are evicted they would go to live under a bridge if not because there is a social network, a family network, a network of non-governmental organizations, such as the Mortgage Platform, which offer a mattress that unfortunately are not offering public administrations, at least until now, because there has been a change in public administrations that my parliamentary group believes will serve to provide that mattress to people who are deprived of the basic right to housing. Amnesty International's report speaks of a lack of equality between the parties. When negotiations take place between a bank and a family that is to be launched of its property, there is no administrative or judicial guardianship in a first instance. The Government's consultation with affected individuals and social organizations has also been lacking, as the Amnesty International report says, and we share it. I have already mentioned the lack of statistical data. Minister, there is a clear lack of social housing policy in Spain. By comparing our country with other countries in our environment, Amnesty International's report reveals that only 2% of our country's housing mix is part of a social network, part of social housing. This rickshaw 2% faces 32% in the Netherlands, 23% in Austria, 18% in the United Kingdom and 17% in France. In addition, this has been in parallel with a cut in public expenditure on housing: from €40.95 per inhabitant in 2008 to €27.79 in 2012. In the same year 2012, against our rickets 27 euros, the European Union has dedicated 134 euros. This is not justifiable. This systematic cut in housing policies, a basic social right for citizenship, is not understandable and cannot be justified from any point of view, although attempts have been made to justify, even by certain autonomous communities, the sale of social housing to vulture funds, because of the need to square the budget by a political measure, by an illegal economic measure forced by this Government. At the same time, in the face of this raquitic nature of housing policies, we are faced with the enormous number of empty dwellings in the Spanish State. Minister, according to the report, there are 3.44 million empty dwellings, nothing more and nothing less than 30% of the total empty dwellings in the European Union. People without houses and houses without people, you don't understand; that's what the protesters shout on the street, Minister. The Sareb has 80,000 homes, and only 600, according to the data revealed in the report, have been given for social rental in Catalonia. There is a total and absolute mismatch between government policies and the protection of the right to housing, an mismatch that cannot be clearer on the issue of empty housing, something absolutely unjustifiable in a country in which we have a Constitution which in its article 128 guarantees the social function of property, something that my parliamentary group does not tire of remembering and maintaining, because although the Spanish Constitution needs certain adjustments, certain revisions - we are for a revision of the constitutional pact - there are many issues that contemplate the Constitution that have never been developed or, at least, not sufficiently in our legal system. Minister, in my second speech - because I am running out of time - I will degregate the proposals made by the Amnesty International report, which we share, and some more that my parliamentary group will add to the subsequent motion to this question. But I do not want to end without telling you clearly that when you come up to this rostrum you meet the goal that Amnesty International has said that they are not fulfilling public administrations, that of genuinely justifying the inadequacy of housing policy and seeing with real data how the housing problem in our country has evolved from before the policies that the Government has implemented to the situation in which we are at present. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u141	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I will begin by agreeing with you on some issues. It is a serious problem and the Government is aware of it from the outset. There is a tremendous question from a social point of view, an issue that creates social alarm, which is evictions. Next to it, there is a housing stock that, at a relatively high percentage - I will not enter the figures, because it is something difficult to identify - are unemployed. This is something that from the very beginning made the Government meditate. However, it is important that we know what the real situation is and what its causes are, in order to then analyse the measures that have been taken. First of all, you will agree with me that it is not the same a eviction for a rent as for a property; that it is not the same a commercial premises as a usual dwelling; that it is not the same a first dwelling as a second dwelling. We all agree on that. Secondly, you have referred quite accurately to the statistical sources, which have not been complete. Recently, the INE, which has to be our statistical reference, has begun to give figures on this serious problem. According to the INE, 0.05% of the total family housing, some 18 million households, started a mortgage execution in the first quarter of 2015. 28% of the total executions started in the first quarter of 2015 are regular homes of natural persons; 7% less than in the same period of the previous year. 60% of the mortgage executions - this is also an important fact, because on many occasions the problems arise with a certain delay; it is something similar to what happened with the case of the preferred ones - are a consequence of the real estate bubble, they are a consequence of mortgages created between 2005 and 2008. According to the latest data of the General Council of the Judiciary, the mortgage executions fell by 17% in the first quarter and more than half of the releases came from procedures regulated by the Urban Leases Act; that is, they were essentially tenants who did not pay the rent. Moreover, according to the Banco de España, the default rate, which is also an issue that we have to take into account, in the area of individual mortgages is below 6%, so there is a reality and that 94% of Spaniards, with their daily and monthly efforts, regularly face their mortgage share. We are certainly faced with the most dramatic consequence of the economic crisis and the explosion of the real estate bubble, in which you will agree with me, Your Honor. I just remind you of some data. The credit to the private sector grew from 1.1 billion euros, in 2003, to 2.3 billion euros in 2009, that is, it multiplied by just over two in five years. The volume of credit for real estate promotion increased from €78 billion to more than €323 billion, i.e. more than four times over the same period. In three years, the number of individual mortgages increased by 36%. The price of housing - that's where the bubble was - increased by almost 60% from 2003 to the peak in 2008. The conditions under which the mortgages were granted, in terms of the types, time limits and percentage financed, undoubtedly favoured the over-indebtedness and subsequent burst of the bubble. All this led to private sector indebtedness reaching 218% of GDP in 2010, well above the average of our partners. In addition, the Spanish economy accumulated major imbalances: the public deficit, the loss of competitiveness, the destruction of employment and doubts about the solvency of our financial system, because as soon as the bubble bursts one begins to analyze what is the real value of the credits granted, of the real estate assets. This makes the crisis in Spain - there is the fundamental origin of the problem we are analysing, the serious problem of evictions - much more intense than in the rest of Europe. From 2008 to 2011 the GDP in Spain fell more than twice as much as in the rest of the euro area and the destruction of employment - and here is the difference - is much more intense, multiplying by four that the rest of Europe has had. From 2008 to 2011, employment fell to us by 12.5%, while in the euro area it fell by only 3.7%. The price of housing begins its decline, begins its reduction. From 2008 to 2011 it falls by 15%. These moments can be said that, after the stabilization we have experienced for the first time, it has fallen in average terms by about a third in relation to what it had at the peak, before the onset of the crisis. This was a problem that the Government found itself on the table and immediately took action for the most vulnerable groups, which as a result of this crisis and the destruction of employment began to have problems. We have been the only and first to take action from the point of view of the Central Administration. This is important because no other Government has taken any action before. Perhaps they should have done something more in relation to the real estate bubble and the conditions under which mortgages were being given. Perhaps they should have established some kind of macroprudential measure, as is currently said from the point of view of analysis. They did not and, logically, we had to pick up the consequences of that lack of action. However, it is also important to bear in mind that at the moment, thanks to the Spanish mortgage system, 80% of the houses in Spain are owned. It is a much higher percentage than the average in the European Union, which is around 65%, as your honor knows. So there have been problems and failures, but let us be aware that the Spanish mortgage system has allowed, far above the Community average, 15 points above, in Spain 80% of housing is owned. I will briefly mention the effects of the measures taken by the Government to, first of all, help those particularly vulnerable groups who, as a result of the crisis, had difficulties. Nearly 40,000 families have benefited from our policies right now. The code of good practice was adopted almost three months after the arrival of this Government and has favored 21,000 families. More than 16,300 have obtained a viable restructuring of their debt and more than 4,500 have carried out a payment operation. The Social Housing Fund, as you mentioned earlier, was made up of 6,000 housing units, with a very small social rent of between 150 and 400 euros per month and almost half, 50% of the fund, has already been awarded. Another measure taken by the Government was the suspension of launches and, to date, nearly 16,000 families have been able to remain in their homes and the launch has not been implemented. Recently, as you have also indicated, we have extended the Royal Second Chance Decree-Law, reinforcing the code of good practice. We have relaxed the criteria for expanding the beneficiaries of the code, including over sixty years of age; we have established the non-definitive application of the ground clauses for those families included in this collective; we have extended for two years the suspension of the launches I have previously commented on and, in addition, we have extended the beneficiaries of the Social Fund from housing to families with minor children, dependent or disabled persons, retired or pre-retired elderly persons, or other persons or families with vulnerable circumstances. We also open the possibility that persons whose housing had already been awarded could stay in it by paying a reduced rent. On the other hand, and this is important to bear in mind, this Government has taken steps in the future and has done so so so that the mistakes that gave rise to this situation will not happen again. In this sense, we have significantly increased the protection via transparency of the mortgage client, but we have also limited the interest of delay to three times the legal interest of the money to avoid an exponential evolution of the same. We have also improved the out-of-court arrangements for mortgaged assets and limited the valuation value for the auction, which cannot be less than 75 % of its value at the time of writing. We have strengthened the independence between assessors and banks, which was a fundamental problem and, in addition, we have forced the writing to include the signature of the mortgage debtor along with a handwritten expression of his fist and letter that he has been adequately informed of the loan clauses in order to avoid abuses due to lack of transparency. But the most important thing, Your Honor - and with this I want to end - is that all these measures are measures that have taken place in the light of specific circumstances of very vulnerable groups. You will agree with me, depending on the analysis of the current situation, that the solution to the problem will be economic recovery and employment recovery; in this regard, the Government has avoided the collapse of the economy. We have corrected the main macroeconomic imbalances and I must therefore tell you today, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first quarter of this year we have grown to 0.9 % - much more than the partners in the euro area - although in the second quarter, we hope - and I think this is good news - that growth is higher than in the first quarter of this year. Thus, in the first half of this year, the Spanish economy will be growing closer to 4% than to 3.5%. Who would have told us, ladies and gentlemen, just a few months ago that the Spanish economy was going to grow close to 4% in the first half of this year! In turn, from mid-2013 until this second quarter, we have already recovered almost 4.5 points of GDP decline from the more than 7 that we had somehow lost until mid-2013 compared to what we had before the onset of the crisis. At the end of next year, if things continue according to the projections and according to the inertia of the Spanish economy, we may have recovered all the income lost since the beginning of the crisis. With regard to job creation, between last year and this year more than one million jobs will be created. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's action has been twofold: vulnerable groups, immediately - almost 40,000 families have benefited from it and more will continue to do so - and as regards the change in the housing market situation, the price of housing is growing for the first time in an exercise since the beginning of the crisis and the number of mortgages is growing again, they are granted in conditions much better than in the past and this is also linked to a substantial reduction in the euribor, which is the reference for mortgages and which has allowed savings of about €6.5 billion per year for mortgage-indebted families. Undoubtedly, Your Honor, the main remedy is economic growth and in that sense the news we are going to have, also undoubtedly, will be positive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u143	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Minister, I thank you for the review you have given to a part of our country's history in recent years, from what has been the real estate bubble, the main cause of the tragedy that many families are now experiencing, to derail the measures that this Government has taken: the first Government to take certain measures. But I will remind you that your party, the People's Party, ruled Spain from 1996 and from that stage until 2004, in those two legislatures, laid the foundations for the growth and development of the real estate bubble with the amendment of certain laws, from the Soil Law to favoring all the development that subsequently had the growth of indebtedness. When the Socialist Party came to the government in 2004, it simply went up to the dragon that was riding in the skies and continued in that bubble dynamics, which everyone denied existed even though some, from the modesty of our political option, denounced in those years that existed and that were leading us to an unusual disaster. We have Casandra's consolation, which in the end tells the truth, but no one believes it because of that spit which the god Apollo threw into his mouth, although it is a weak consolation; but, I insist, some said at that time that there was a real-estate bubble when others denied it, just as others denied at a certain time that there was a crisis. But in order for this situation to have occurred and to have reached where it has reached, it has been necessary for the People's Party to take measures in these two legislatures of the late last century and the beginning of this century, and for the Socialist Party not to take other corrective measures in the following two. That is to say, everyone has collaborated, has had their responsibility in the current situation. I am grateful to you for the development of the numbers regarding the measures taken by the Government regarding the code of good practice, social housing fund, suspensions of launches, the Law on Citizen Security... and, no doubt, the thousands of families who have been able to accommodate this situation will be somewhat relieved. But what I miss, and what I asked you in the first intervention, is the comparison of these numbers that you offer with respect to the country's overall situation. Because in the face of those thousands of families who have been able to accept this code of good practice, there are a very high number, I insist, of thousands and thousands of families who have not been able to accept. Because the code of good practice marks very restrictive conditions and, in addition, it lacks a guardianship of public administrations and a judicial guardianship behind it. There are, therefore, many people who have not been able to accept these measures from the Government, which are certainly positive, but, Minister, they are clearly insufficient because we are experiencing a real social tragedy. That is what the report says: a real social tragedy is being experienced and public administrations are not fulfilling their role. You said that we have to trust all our hope in the future in economic recovery. Well, for the moment the economic recovery, which we will not deny in the light of the data that is being produced, is manifestly unequal, because it is doing so on an increasingly unequal situation for Spanish society. There is an increasing number of rich and richer; but there is a much greater number, a huge number! of people outside all circles, increasingly poor, without any resources. We are living at a time when workers for having a job do not even come out of the poverty line. Having a job no longer means not being poor: you can have a job and still be poor. And that is the tragedy of the economic recovery that the People's Party government is trying to sell but that does not reach the majority of society. That is why, Minister, beyond the fact that we obviously have to recover growth rates and that we have to recover the economy, we have to raise many things, we have to deal with the tragedy on a daily basis, we have to deal with the problems that families have on a daily basis with regard to housing. And that is why I put to you in the first part of my speech a series of measures from now on - which we will propose in the subsequent motion - on which I would like you to give your opinion on this, to offer what the Government's assessment is. Measures proposed by Amnesty International and which we understand very reasonable. The first is a reform of the Civil Prosecution Act so that judges can genuinely assess the exercise or protection of what is provided for in article 47 of the Constitution, the right to housing, because if not, it is an empty right, and it is necessary for the law to develop it at some point. And we are recommended to develop a Civil Prosecution Act. What does the Government think about this measure? Would you be willing to give the judges the ultimate power so that, when they have a throw on the table, this is not a mere number in the Property Registry, they see the conditions, consequences and situation of that family that is to be thrown from their home, and they can say at a certain time: above the rights of the banking entities, above the right, above all, is article 47 and the right of this family to have a home. And we can give that to the judges. What is the Government's view that we should guarantee legal remedies to ensure that there is not what is described in the report as 'weapon inequality', and that there is equality of arms? So that the banks, which have huge and super powerful legal teams behind them, don't have David in front of the mortgages without the possibility of defense. We are talking about a legal mechanism for monitoring the negotiations that we will propose, which we believe is basic and would be a step that this Government could take. What is the Government's view on this? What is the Government's view of extending the excessively strict concepts of the Code of Good Practice so far? Would the Government be willing to expand those narrow margins established by the Code of Good Practice? In short, would the Government - we are already at the end of the parliamentary term and there is little room to bring in new laws - be willing to have at least the political will to do something that would be basic to my parliamentary group? It would be necessary in Spain to develop the right to housing, to protect the right to housing, to make a state law that precisely regulates the exercise of that right and to make it possible for any citizen who feels that that right is being violated to resort in some way to the courts and to invoke a law beyond article 47 of the Constitution, which is obviously not sufficient at this time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u145	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I will try to answer the questions you have raised here. First of all, you have made a reference to what is the origin of the real estate bubble. When the bomb is actually eaten, it is between 2003 and 2008. I have given you the data before but, look at that, in addition, there are others that are indicative of the existence or not of a bubble, such as, for example, the evolution of external indebtedness, the external deficit, etc., that in the end are those that indicate how many resources we are assuming - housing has a social function as you pointed out, logically we all need a housing - but from the strictly economic point of view there are other alternative investments that in the medium and long term produce better effects of potential growth. Of course, Your Honor, the barley of the bomb is mainly produced in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, where all the figures are fired. Then there is another question that I think you will accept. I have put the analysis of the tremendous problem of evictions in the worst economic, financial and social crisis we have had in our country in recent years. Never in our country had we had five years of falling GDP, job losses with the data I have mentioned before: 3,400,000 jobs, situations in which the mortgage market is contracting with problems from the point of view of banks. We have never had that before and, therefore, to turn it around is undoubtedly the real solution to the widespread serious problem we have had in the context of evictions. Indeed, the Spanish economy - I repeat again - is growing close to 4%, as it is doing this first semester; more than 600,000 jobs will be created this year; in relation to the quality of jobs created, according to the latest INEM data more than 60% of employees are indefinite contracts and also full-time contracts, and - if I may say so - I suppose you will agree with me that the main problem from the point of view of employment is long-term unemployment, and that long-term unemployment has begun to decrease and, moreover, the number of families with all its unemployed members is also clearly reduced. You have referred to a number of proposals to the Trial Act. I will tell you that this Government has amended the Mortgage Act on numerous occasions so that the judge can effectively assess, for example, abusive clauses. Apart from the fact that in the future it is much more difficult for abusive clauses to exist, by means of increased transparency and by means of the modifications we have made so that there are not, moreover, logically, if a person asking for a mortgage goes to the notary, he has to write of his fist and letter that knows them - if we had had that a few years ago how many problems we had taken away today - he will agree with me, Your Honor, that this is a fundamental step forward. We have taken many steps. I mentioned earlier the limitation of interest rates, the independence between tax collectors and banks, sometimes given values that were not real. You know exactly and many times those dusts have come these muds. Then you comment on the issue of equality: all the measures we have taken in this area are to balance the situation between the lender and the borrower. And he's telling me about the expansion of the code of good practice. We have recently done so and 40,000 families - as I said earlier - have benefited from it. When I got here and the issue of evictions came up, there were people talking about the payoff. I just gave you data, 4,500 paydays. That was unthinkable in our country three years ago and peak. We have also had a lot of debt restructuring to make it viable. As I said earlier, we have stopped 16,000 launches, Your Honor, and we also have 3,000 housing units made available to the social housing fund that have been practically awarded. You used to talk about Sareb. Sareb is essentially an instrument for the purchase of the assets of banks or old nationalised banks, not of the entire banking system. But I can tell you that at the moment Sareb has 2,000 homes assigned to the autonomy. It has signed 900 houses with Catalonia, with Aragon 80 houses, with Galicia 50 and in some ways is in continuous contact with the autonomous communities, with the Canary Islands and Navarre, and also has advanced contacts with Asturias and the Basque Country. That's the situation. This has been the first Government to take steps to protect the most vulnerable groups, but no doubt the final solution to the problem will come with the exit from the crisis and the recovery of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u147	Thank you, Minister. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Financial Sufficiency of the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities. [[File number 172/000327]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u148	We turn to the urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities and local entities. Mr Rangel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u149	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you will agree with me that in democratic politics, the substance of things is as important as forms. That is why - and I say this to you with all due respect - we have been greatly surprised by the latest statements of his or her ministry that we have seen published in the media. Titles such as: Finance marks the red lines to the new governments and municipalities, or Finance threatens three autonomys with suspending their financing, we do not believe that they are an adequate way to deal with things between public administrations, nor is it a good image towards the citizens, especially when it is also concrete in autonomous communities where there has been a change of government, where previously its party ruled and now there are governments of another sign, in autonomous communities where we have responsibility for government the socialists, such as the Valencian Community, Extremadura and Aragon. Moreover, if, as the journalistic chronicles say, there have been previous warnings from his ministry to some of these presidents, we do not understand why they have not been made public - which is what is relevant - and we do not know whether any action had been taken regarding one of those autonomous communities that, according to the reports of his ministry hung on his website, flagrantly failed to comply with the spending rule as is the case with Extremadura. At least it wasn't made public. Precisely, Minister, it is in this style of politics, coupled with fundamental issues such as economic policies that have laminated citizens' rights where the responses to the reaction of citizens and to the electoral coup that have given them in the last elections can be found. That is why it is not surprising that the President of the Government considers the bad results to be communication problems. Mr Montoro, you know perfectly well that citizens do not know what they have done or what their policies have been because they have communicated them perfectly and suffered them in their flesh. Therefore, its political project - a project that we have repeatedly denounced based on inequality - is exhausted and citizens are clearly perceiving it, and more than changes in communication, what they want is to change policies and change the Government that is carrying them out. Let's go to the bottom. His political project has involved serious and strong cuts that have articulated through the autonomous communities and local entities. With regard to the autonomous communities, we know very well that, with the competent distribution that our Constitution establishes, they are responsible for the provision of services to people, they are responsible for the provision of health, education and social services. These services are the ones that generate the most important spending policies, almost 70% of the expenditure of the autonomous communities is devoted to these policies, and these policies have precisely been the subject of cutbacks in their substantive strategy. They have done so through two channels: on the one hand, by not updating the model of autonomous financing, which in many cases has serious problems; precisely the law was its updating - not before, before there were no updates - and you have not done so, which has seriously harmed quite a few autonomous communities. But above all, what has harmed you has been the establishment of the effort to consolidate the deficit that you have set for you, which has been the most serious. As for local entities, what they have actually done has been to fundamentally change the regulatory regulations; they are entities that have made mattresses in many cases to care for the distraught that are taking place in society, that have harmed families and people, and those local corporations, with the new regulations, will hardly be able to carry it out. That really is a model change because a municipality, according to the Constitution, is a territorial administration that has to attend to the neighborhood community and can hardly carry it out being simply an administration and also protected. The figures of the adjustment know them perfectly well and I will recall them: in 2011, we have moved from a deficit of the autonomous communities plus local entities from 63,344 million to a forecast for 2015 of 7,868, with which the cut will be at the end of this year of 55,476 million, while what corresponds to their most direct competences, which is the central administration plus social security, will simply have been limited to cutting 145 million, from 37,921 to 37,776. As you see, the adjustment in one subsystem and another is absolutely disproportionate. Even the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has said in its reports that the objectives set for some of the autonomous communities will be very difficult to achieve. Mr Minister, they have finally given up correcting our main deficit, which is our income, in relation to the average of the countries of the European Union and what they are doing - they make it clear in the update of the Stability Plan - is to maintain that level of income, which is particularly low in relation to the average of the countries of the European Union, by now announcing tax cuts certainly due to the growth of the bases and thus consolidating that model of a particularly low collection in relation to the countries of the European Union - and, of course, in order to achieve the balance of accounts, they further cut the public services that will continue to affect health, education and social services. So we do not understand why they have not implemented other very different policies that have to do not with the financial asphyxiation of local entities and autonomous communities, but with the contrary. But when we see what their model is, the model they intend to consolidate, that what they do is also consolidate inequality, we understand it perfectly. Minister, we do not question the principle of stability at all. We understand that the accounts have to be balanced throughout the cycle so that we do not have any more problems with our indebtedness, so that imbalances do not undermine the growth potential of our economy and so that wealth can be properly distributed. But what we cannot share is that agreeing with the principle of stability necessarily implies a certain policy. We can agree with the principle of stability, but policies are decisions that are made, which can be as consistent as others, but they must tend to a greater growth of the public sector, to give more muscle to that public sector so that it can really have more capacity to redistribute wealth and achieve much more obvious social cohesion. That, really, we do not see it in everything you are doing, in everything you are driving and in the model you are consolidating when what you are trying to do is, already with a 2018 horizon, consolidate it and keep public authorities at a rachitic levels, minimal so that they can carry out their redistributive functions. We therefore absolutely disagree with what you are doing but, above all, with what you are proposing for the future. I would like you to tell me exactly whether what you intend is going to be good for the whole citizenry, whether the discounts you are announcing as an electoral measure are going to be good for the citizenry, not to mention that that necessarily implies cuts and even more cuts up to this 2018 horizon in health, education and social care. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u150	Thank you, Mr. Rangel. Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I accept, as is my obligation - but also taking advantage of the opportunity - the question put by the Socialist Group to clarify some extremes of the government's policy since the beginning of the legislature, in particular as regards the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities and the local authorities of Spain. A very important part of the government's policy since the beginning of the legislature has been aimed, precisely, at ensuring the financial sufficiency of territorial administrations. I must remind the honourable Member that this is an area in which important results have been achieved over the last three years, to the extent that we have managed to completely change the perception of certain circles in which autonomous communities and municipalities were considered to be an insurmountable problem to overcome the financial crisis in Spain, to overcome the fiscal crisis of the State. This hasn't happened. That's what happened at the beginning of the legislature, that much of the autonomous communities and municipalities of Spain, it's not that they had financial problems, it's that they couldn't go to the financial markets, to the banks; it's not that they had sufficient resources, it's that they couldn't pay their officials at the end of the month, as I had to say also in 2012 from my seat in the Government of Spain, with great alarm at the time. But it was the reality; in 2012 there were many local corporations, and some autonomous communities, which had very serious problems paying their officials. So that's what we faced, so some other political groups were telling us that we were rescuing the autonomous communities and rescuing the municipalities, without understanding that what we were doing was political for the citizens of those peoples, of those cities and of those autonomous communities. Or were these citizens not entitled to receive basic public services like the rest of the Spaniards? Were not the companies to which those public administrations were owed entitled, and did not receive the payment of their invoices for the provision of their services? Should those companies shut down or fire their workers? You didn't have to deal with the debt to the banks, either? Was it not necessary to deal with that debt with the financial markets of a large part of Spain's territorial administrations? Do you know what happened to the previous government of Spain? That someone who sat there said, "Let every stick hold its candle." [[Noting the seats of the Government]] And we as the Government of Spain, far from doing that policy, did the opposite. The Government of Spain is responsible for ensuring that all citizens, regardless of their place of residence, have access to basic public services. That's what we did. When we govern some we do this, and when it governs socialism and the left this, which increasingly boasts of the election results of March 24, what they have done, Mr Rangel, which I know - what you and the Socialist Party of Catalonia have done - has been to give municipal power to Podemos. That's what you've done and what you're so proud of when you come up to this rostrum! You have given the municipal power to the radicals in this country, and from there it still comes to boast of the result in this rostrum, which has actually consisted in evicting the municipal governments of the People's Party by giving rise to the radicals. [[Rumors]] They've done it! What have they done in Badolona? Are you very proud of what you have done in Badalona, for example? Or what they've done in so many other places in Spain? There you are politically, but do not take me up to the rostrum to say that the results really are comforting to you. Perhaps it is true, in this new socialism of Mr Sánchez, that it is socialism that makes radical competition for the new radicals of Spanish politics, but from this it is the political situation that we are living. From this you come to blame this government for media owners. If at this point you do not distinguish the holders of the information, there each. When have you heard me a direct cut in which I threaten some city hall or some autonomous community? That is the headline version and you are interested in those headlines, and it seems to me very well: we live in a country of free information, go ahead, but what I ask is that you stick to the contents of what is really being a government action. Have we reduced the public deficit among all? Yes or no? We have reduced it among all administrations. Have we enabled since the beginning of the legislature a complex funding framework for territorial administrations, which has reached more than EUR 180 billion in these years, from 2012 to 2015? Yes or no? Have we paid the bills that those local corporations and these autonomous communities had pending? Yes or no? Did we pay or not? It is very good that you, as a representative of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, are also coming up to this rostrum to complain about the system of autonomous financing; all right: interesting and very coherent. Very consistent! But you didn't rule in Catalonia when this funding system was approved? Were you not the ones who said that this funding system was the best for all of Spain and especially for Catalonia? You weren't in the tripartite that approved this funding system? [[Rumors.-Protests]] No, they were others. The virtue of politics is that everyone is new when they come up to this rostrum, except for those who are not new, of course, and we are criticized for the inconsistency of our approaches, which consist in maintaining basic public services, in financing equal opportunities for citizens in access to such public services and in promoting changes and reforms, as we would have liked to do with autonomous financing. But what you say they don't like autonomous financing, come on, is, where were you in those years? Supporting it, and saying that this was what was needed for everyone, and especially for Catalonia, in that tripartite that they now want to reborn with new political partners, which is fine, they are very free to do so, but when the economic consequences come we will see how they suffer. Now what we have in Spain approved in this legislature is also an institutional architecture, which guarantees the fulfilment of the objectives of public deficit, because it is guaranteed by the laws that this House has approved; and those laws are today allowing us to have economic recovery and job creation. Is there no economic recovery or job creation either? How much is social security membership increasing in Catalonia? At what rate? Is it not true that this membership of Social Security in Catalonia is growing at 3.7% in annual rates, and throughout Spain? How many tens of thousands of people have found jobs in Catalonia? How many hundreds of thousands in all of Spain? Isn't that right? Ask yourself, at least intellectually, if we had made another policy other than reducing the public deficit and ensuring the financing of public services and paying suppliers, would we have managed to have this economic recovery and this job creation? Is this economic recovery and job creation that we are having which the Socialist Group predicted and predicted in this House in the successive debates of the General Budgets of the State? By the way, is this what they predicted, Mr Sánchez and the rest of the parties, that there was going to be in our country in the last budget debate? You make the following approaches without recognizing that you have been wrong not only about the effectiveness of a government policy, but about the potential of Spanish society. People in Spain are doing what they have to do, which is to start, find new jobs, strive, risk, because today they also have greater access - it is beginning - to the financing of bank loans. That's what's happening. And that has a lot to do with the funding mechanisms of all our public administrations, and it has to do with the commitment of all our public administrations to correcting the public deficit. Your Honor, we are in favour of budgetary balance. Are you sure? They have now made a new record for the economic programme, Mr Sevilla. Mr Seville, when he was in this House, was a firm attacker of the zero deficit, and he was characterized in all his speeches in this House - because I too had the honour of discussing with him, as Minister of Finance - for defending that this from the zero deficit, from the budgetary balance was a real dissate. Then things are getting up to date; we're all getting up to date. It is also good that you are going to work for the private company and come from the private company. But that's not a revolutionizing door, that's not leaving and going back. No, no, This is also done by members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group who complain so much about the revolutionary doors in this House in their appeals. That's right when they do it, but it's the result of social alarm when someone else does it. Mr Rangel, I ask you to at least objectively acknowledge that there has been exceptional funding for the autonomous communities and local corporations, provided by the only one who could do so, the State. With it we have ensured the provision of public services, and we have facilitated the operational need to achieve the public deficit targets. And as the financing system - I finish - is what it is - although the current autonomous financing system is not in the liking of this government - it has its rules and its logic, and according to that system next year the deliveries on behalf of the autonomous communities and local corporations, resulting from the final liquidation of the financial year 2014, will increase. The allocation of the deliveries to the autonomous communities in 2016 is going to increase by a fairly substantial amount. That is the new framework resulting from the current funding system, and I insist that it will make it easier for the autonomous communities to meet the public deficit targets planned for this 2015 financial year and also for the 2016 financial year. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u152	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Rangel.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u153	Thank you, President. Minister, today is the second time that you have quoted Mr Jordi Sevilla. I'm not a psychiatrist, but I'm sure it would require a Freudian analysis of his obsession with Mr. Sevilla. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] In any case, there is evidence that you and I are very different in terms of the conception of politics, both in form and substance. I'm a socialist and you're a right-wing man. I respect you, but as for the forms we are very different, because the statements that you and your party correspondents have made here today, trying to discredit the representatives of the Spanish people who have been elected in the autonomous communities and local corporations, accusing them of anything, I do not do them. I respect all those who have been elected, the vast majority, also those of your party, but above all respect the citizens who have voted what they have voted for, because disqualifying those political forces with the epithets that you are using is not respecting the popular will of citizens, and that is something that as a Democrat I would never do. That's what distinguishes us. [[Applauds]] He spoke after the autonomous financing system. I have already told you that we are trying to have a new system of autonomous financing with federal cut-off bases, but that it is verifiable; for what? Because if there were problems in their execution or management they could be corrected. We never thought we had the absolute truth in our hands - which does not happen to you - and that is why we anticipated its revision. Moreover, to a large extent management has been in your hands, and the problems arising from that system and the opacity in its management is largely your responsibility, Minister. On the other hand, I have not mentioned the debt before, but you have taken it out. You're rising debt champions: 300 billion since you've been in the government. That has been their solution to the lack of funding. Various plans have been put in place to finance the autonomous communities and local corporations on the basis of debt. There is a Funcas report, which is not a cabinet suspected of being influenced by the socialists, which is precisely alerting of this increase in debt, and it says textually: the total increase in the autonomous debt in three years, from 2012 to 2014, has been 91,661 million euros, of which 88,725 million euros were contributed by the Treasury; and they also say that this creates serious risks. They have thus replaced adequate financing for the autonomous communities and local corporations with increased debt. It is a palliative, but that is not the solution, Minister. I have already told you before, it is a subject of models, apart from forms and conception of politics: with a low minimum state that renounces to increase its revenues in order to be able to make redistributive policies we do not agree at all; at all. I therefore tell you clearly that I share a statement that I have heard in more than one statement from public officials: only the rich can afford a poor state, and on the way we are going is to what you want to lead us to. I've told you before, it's been perfectly perceived by the citizenry, you know, and that's why they've been punished. That is enough, Minister; the citizens, whom I respect and you seem to be not so much willing to change their communication, but to change their policies, so they are going to change the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that the fact that there are votes in democracy that elect radical political representatives is normal, or is there no radical in this House? Would you go with some of the representatives of this House to certain political pacts? [[Mr. Rangel Tarrés: It's democratic]] Of course it's democratic to be sitting here, who says no? What I am telling you is that we would never go with certain representatives of this House to any political pact; we would never go. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Why? As a matter of principle, but you really don't care. Since you do not have much left over principle, it does not matter, and from there it is enough that you are elected as public representatives to give equal content, principles and program. [[Protests]] You don't care, because you have only one motto - you have said it -; all you care about is that the People's Party loses the elections, that's your motto. From there they call on everyone to participate in pacts that - I insist - of course I will qualify them, I am exercising my democratic right. I with certain people, regardless of whether I am elected, would never go, and less to government formations, would never sponsor certain forms of government. We would never do this, but you do, recognize it, but don't justify it in terms of being elected, because elected by the citizenry we have had in Spanish democracy political formations that have defended terrorism. Or are we already forgetting what the future of our democracy has been like? But it doesn't matter to you; as long as you add up and change policies, it doesn't matter to you. [[Rumors.-Protests]] What policies are they going to change? Do you know which ones will change when you get to organize those majorities? They will make policies that are incompatible with economic recovery and with job creation, as they have done in the past: policies that are incompatible with economic recovery and job creation. This is what you do not accept to happen in Spain, and that is the difference you make between each other. We defend and finance an efficient, modern State committed to the provision of public services. That is why the public debt has grown, as you yourself have acknowledged, since we have paid for public services, we had to pay for health care, we had to pay for education, we had to pay for social benefits. That is why the public debt has grown, and I am glad that you recognize it at once, because from there the outstanding payments that had been left by public administrators are being recognized, and that today they cannot be left in accordance with the laws in force. From this obviously the presence and the weight of Spain's public debt in the gross domestic product must decrease. The Government's commitment, the Government's programme and the focus and content of the 2015 targets are to bring down, from 2016, the burden of public debt on gross domestic product, but in a correlative process: lower deficit, nominal primary surplus and reduction of public debt on gross domestic product. Let me ask you, in advance of the legislature, why you in the government did not do that. Because it was easier not to watch that public administrations didn't pay their suppliers. So it's nice to rule; that is, I'm in the government to spend, and you can stand the stick of your candle. Otherwise, people coming to work from the private company seems great to me. I will only remind you that the Socialist Group's records refer to people who were members of the Spanish Government at the time when Spain was in debt to the rest of the world until 2007, which caused the most serious economic crisis of the last twenty years in our country, the policy that destroyed three and a half million jobs, the policy that made the state of self-government in Spain ungovernable financially. Those are his records. Welcome to reinforce. But we each come with our resume, which we put forward when we are in the public service. With some Spain grows and creates jobs, and with others Spain is indebted and destroys jobs, starting with the closure of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the approach. And the more radical left-wing elements you add up, the less political exit there will be in our country. The Socialist Party should have its own entity, an alternative entity of government, but you, with those sums, are doing what you are doing is becoming political support, the white mark of other types of political organizations, which undoubtedly also have a radical approach in their contents that is not possible today from Spain. [[Rumors.-Protests]] [[Protests. - Rumors.]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u156	Thank you, Minister. [[Mrs Valerio Cordero asks for the floor]] Yes, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u157	Madam President, the minister has not listened at all to the inquiry, and has come here to give us the rally.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u158	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u159	You've made quite a few statements here.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u160	I'm sorry, you don't have the floor. This is a well-deserved debate. Mr Rangel has used the arguments he considered appropriate, and the Minister is exactly the same. I'm so sorry. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE NEED FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO CONTENT THE IMMEDIATE REDUCTION OF VAT TO PLUCHERIERS AND TO SERVICES PROVIDED FOR PHYSICAL PERSONS PURSUANT TO SPORT OR PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN GYMNASIS AND SPORTS INSTALLATIONS, MUCH ACTIVITIES VINCULAR TO THE IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTH HABITS. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 172/000328]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u161	We turn to the inquiry of the Convergence Group i Unió on the need for the Government to consider the immediate reduction of VAT to hairdressers and services provided to individuals who practice sport or physical education in gyms or sports facilities, an activity that is closely linked to the improvement of health habits. Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor for his presentation. [[Rumors]] Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance and Public Administration, this is indeed a parliamentary initiative presented by the Catalan Parliamentary Group for Convergence and Union on the urgent need for the Government to immediately propose the reduction of VAT to hairdressers and services provided to individuals who practice sport or physical education in gyms and sports facilities. Minister, this parliamentary initiative talks about the real economy, the real world, the productive economy, the services of small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, hairdressers and gymnasiums, which we should not forget give occupation to a total universe of 260,000 people throughout the Spanish State. We are talking about a sector that we almost never talk about here, as important for the productive economy as it is for services in Spain. We always talk about large macroeconomic figures, that the economy is doing very well, and we say it is actually going well, but we have not yet emerged from the crisis. There are a lot of families who are having a really bad time and who do not find employment, and there are a lot of companies - and this is why we are asking - that belong to the hairdressers and gyms sector that are shut down for the next two years if no corrective measures are proposed, such as those that we are trying to convince the Government that they should be implemented immediately. Basically this initiative has a fundamental objective: not to be destroyed, Minister, about 78,000 jobs that can be destroyed in Spain if you do not propose a reduction in VAT from 21% to 10%. Minister, this initiative talks about all those small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises, self-employed and entrepreneurs who give a great deal of female and youth employment throughout the Spanish State, and that with the taxation that is being applied to them at the moment they have many chances of not continuing their business journey, because with an increase of 13 points from 2012 to 2015 it is totally impossible for them to maintain the profitability of their businesses. For this reason, our parliamentary group has once again decided - exactly one month ago, our cultural spokesperson, Mrs Monserrat Surroca, proposed a reduction in cultural VAT for the entire Spanish cultural and film industry from 21% to 10% - to call for this reduction for this very important sector of hairdressers, beauty salons and gyms. You must know, Minister, that these businesses are at a dangerous stage, because if this VAT reduction is not applied, they will not be able to continue their business activities, since an increase of 13 points - from 8% in the previous one, which would now be 10%, to 21% - makes it completely impossible for them to maintain their business activities. Minister, we are finding that if this urgent and immediate correction is not made, many of these businesses will be engaged in the submerged economy - you should know it and probably know it - because it is totally impossible to put up with a 13 point increase on the domestic economy, and thus maintain the profitability of those businesses. There is another aspect that we think is relevant, Minister, and it is that certain sectors of the productive economy such as hairdressers, beauty salons and gymnasiums provided youth and women employment to many people who, working in practices, could join them, but, as a result of this disproportionate increase in VAT, these staff increases are no longer taking place in hairdressers, beauty salons and gymnasiums. And it must not be forgotten that, according to various Spanish statistics, all investments that can be made in physical education or in the practice of sport, every euro invested, Minister, in physical education and sport presupposes a health saving of 2.9 points, which is a relevant fact. We are talking about correcting disproportionate increases in VAT in two sectors. If you look at the tax revenues that have occurred in 2013, 2014 and 2015 you will see that they are not as significant for these excessive increases, so you would be in time to rectify, as you did for the VAT on flowers and ornamental plants, whose reduction from 21% to 10%, which is what we are proposing, has saved the sector. We propose this initiative, which we consider very important since it is a lot of family businesses that employ more than 260,000 people in the Spanish State, and if we do not have the political vision or the agility to be able to significantly reduce this VAT, it would probably result in an occupation destruction of 30%. We are talking about statistical data provided by different associations in the hairdressing sector, beauty salons and also gyms and the practice of sport in physical and health education. These sectors to which I have referred, Minister, are going through really difficult times. When we say, Minister, that there is an important economic improvement, that the increase in gross domestic product in Spain in 2015 will be 2.5 or 3%, it is a certain magnitude, a true magnitude, but when we bring these figures to the real economy, to the domestic economy, we are insulting these important sectors in which jobs are being destroyed day by day. Minister, if you review your statistics, you will notice that in the last two years around 20,000 hairdressing establishments have had to be closed in Spain and around 1,500 gyms for health practice have been closed because everything that goes in the direction of improving physical activity also leads to improved health, for example in the cardiovascular area, which ultimately results in significant savings in health spending. Therefore, Minister, we are talking, as I said at the beginning of my speech, about the Spanish real economy, about the productive economy in certain services that I have just detailed to you, such as hairdressers, beauty salons and gyms, which include a very large number of workers, a lot of women's jobs, about 260,000 female and male jobs, and we, with this measure that we have proposed in the Congress of Deputies, intend to avoid the destruction of more than 70,000 jobs. Minister, I think it is worth reflecting on this issue. We are thinking together on the issue of VAT on flowers and ornamental plants and we have saved the sector, so we must congratulate ourselves, but there are other sectors that are having a really bad time because of this disproportionate increase in VAT, which does not correspond to the VAT rates that exist in the European Union, such as those in the cultural sector, which I have already said we have talked about repeatedly, but we are now talking about a sector which may seem insignificant but which, for us, Minister, is very important because it does not stop giving employment to about 260,000 people. We, with this initiative, intend to make you reflect; allow you to allow in what remains of the legislature, in the same way that you could arbitrate a reduction of the VAT of the flowers and ornamental plants, in this case you can make the right decision to reduce the VAT of the hairdressers and the gymnasiums to avoid the destruction of more than 70,000 jobs. I think the initiative is worth it. It is worth thinking about this approach and if we can finally avoid the destruction of those 70,000 jobs, we will probably all welcome it. Thank you very much, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u163	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the summer of 2012, the Government took the decision to change VAT in our country because, as I have had occasion to describe many times in the House, in July 2012 we were living in a very worrying, very extreme situation. In Spain, with the euro crisis, we were living in a situation that we should never have experienced and that led us as the Government of Spain and of course myself to assume and explain to the Spaniards that we were forced to raise VAT forced by the situation; to that rise in VAT and to other increases in taxes. I, personally, from this House have publicly asked for forgiveness on repeated occasions; on multiple occasions. That forgiveness that I have asked publicly for the truth is that I have not had any success in terms of spreading it, quite the contrary; many times my image seemed to be, I don't know what it was called, enjoying, in quotes - a really unfortunate thing - when I had the opportunity to be saying it publicly from this House, in the Spanish Senate and of course in different public presences. We said we felt it, but we had no other remedy. But at least those climbs have been effective, they have served, because today we have a different economic scenario in Spain; we have won the forecasts with solutions that we really did not want to take at a certain time. I no longer know how to say it more forcefully in terms that this was the last of those extreme decisions at an extreme time in the country. Now, we live as long as we live, we are in Europe, and as all international bodies - whether or not European - recommend us to use indirect taxation because it is one of the sources of funding for the welfare state. But this must be made compatible with the policy of the Government, which is to lower taxes, to return the efforts that we have called for at the most critical times for citizens. We are already doing so in 2015, where the first reduction was that of the personal income tax, which is scheduled for January 2016 and which means a tax refund of €9 billion. We are already making those returns of economic capacity that we are very aware that at a certain time, because the country was on the verge of collapse - not only at the edge of the rescue but also at the edge of the collapse - we had to do among all and ask the citizens for it because the situation was really much worse than what the previous government had told us in quantitative terms. If the public deficit had not been 50% higher, much of these measures were neither in our programme nor in our minds, to understand us, not in our political intention. We have therefore done this out of obligation. There are times when a ruler has to put forward his public qualification as such and his commitment as a country and ask for an additional effort from many people, many sectors of the economy, but at least today I can answer this question by saying that it has been worth it. When we say that consumption fell in 2012, that is not only the result of the rise in taxes, much less, but also the destruction of jobs that were already taking place and that much of us were also needed to do in the field of public administration. That's what was happening in Spain in 2012. We were experiencing a very important economic adjustment and obviously consumption was depressed, but at the end of that year the sign of our current account balance changed because the public sector of our administrations had a lower need for financing, a lower public deficit. This means that from the spring of 2013, breaking all the forecasts, there was an inflection in the Spanish economy and we would grow again; first very modestly and at the beginning of 2014 to create employment, yet with these VAT so high. What is happening in Spain today is the recovery of family consumption, that is what is contributing and even leading economic growth and the consequent creation of jobs. That has to do with the government's policies, it has to do with the fact that at the beginning of the year we have dropped the IRPF by almost €1.06 billion. That has to do with the economic injection that we are promoting in family savings, in individuals. That also has to do with job creation because it brings security and above all it gives the hope that as many unemployed as we still have in Spain can find a job in this same exercise or in future exercises if we continue to do the policies we are doing. What are we doing in tax matters in 2015, Mr.Sáchez i Llibre? Lower taxes; we're doing it because the collection is allowing it. This is the policy that leads us from the Government to facilitate an impulse to recover from the consumption of families, because when this consumption of facsimile falls it affects very much all sectors of economic activity and of course it also affects the sectors of gymnastics, body care, sports facilities, hairdressers and other services in which the scenario of falling economic activity, of loss of jobs, of all that leads to the loss of trust in society. Therefore, when we raised VAT, we kept it within the structure of the super-reduced type and the reduced rate; types that concern practically the whole food sector in Spain - everything is in the super-reduced or the reduced - activities such as transport and many other services, and tourist activities that are fundamental in our country. We are all living and seeing those recommendations from the international bodies that continue to tell the Spanish Government and Spanish society that we are raising the reduced rates to general VAT rates, but we do not share that opinion, it is not in the project or in the Government's mind to move categories of goods and services subject to different types of taxation. As you have pointed out in your speech, we have raised to the general type something that is to the general type in all the countries of our environment to safeguard many elements of economic and social welfare activity that are taxed at reduced and super-reduced rates. But, as your honor has recalled, we have already turned back on that decision to go up from reduced to general. Your honor has remembered the VAT of flowers, but there is another VAT that we have already lowered, which is the delivery of the artist's goods, which we have lowered from the general rate to the reduced. [[The lady]] Therefore, the intention of the Government is to confirm the economic and budgetary scenarios, and from that our intention is clear. I don't know where you saw another intention; another thing is that we did what we did at the time we did it, forced by events, but of course our intention is, as we are having more economic activity and more employment - which is really what we care about, overcoming this unemployment crisis that we have - to lower taxes. We therefore follow very closely the discussions with all the economic sectors that legitimately explain to us that the lowering of taxes would favour economic activity and job creation in our country. The President of the Government explained this at last week's monitoring session: our intention is to lower taxes and take advantage of the margins that we are experiencing in the evolution of our public budgets, committed to the reduction of the public deficit, and obviously the margins derived from tax collection, which goes frankly well throughout this year, from the VAT of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a symptom of recovery of economic activity, which without a doubt, as President Rajoy announced, leaves us with margins to implement our policies, which are to lower taxes, stimulate economic activity and thereby strengthen growth and job creation. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister for Finance and Public Administration, I'm going to tell you about the concrete, not the general. I have come here to talk about hairdressers, gyms and beauty parlors and, collecting your last words when you said that you are in the process of lowering taxes to increase economic activity, commit yourself today, Minister, to this parliamentary group and to the whole House to reduce VAT on hairdressers and gyms; commit yourself, Minister, to making a reduction, as you did in the case of flowers, from 21 % to 10 %. Today we are talking about the real economy and if you are now beginning to answer any of the macroeconomic issues, we would be assaulting and insulting all these micro-enterprises, self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, all this important productive fabric that is doing a fundamental job. In addition, you know very well, Minister, that the increase in VAT collection from 8% to 21% in these sectors has not been matched by significant increases; on the contrary, surely if you do an analysis of VAT collection in the hairdressing sector and in the gyms you will see that it has been reduced, despite this significant increase of thirteen points, because a lot of jobs have been destroyed and a lot of establishments have been closed down. Today, Minister, I liked your presentation because you said that you are going to lower taxes, that you are going to increase economic activity. Commit yourself to this parliamentary group, as we are talking about concrete things. Today many people throughout Spain are following this debate, people who are going through it fatal; we are talking about their personal economy, small businesses, the real economy, the real world, because sometimes we forget about the difficulties that this type of business is going through; we talk about the big macroeconomic figures and we forget about the street and then what happens, that there is a lack of affection for politics and this house. Therefore, taking advantage of your magnificent intervention in the sense that you are going to raise a significant tax reduction, as you have already done with the issue of flowers, let us be brave, Minister. I take the floor and challenge you, politically speaking, as always from the utmost cordiality, since we are talking about a sector that is really having a bad time - you know that these businesses, with that significant rise, are closing, they are destroying employment, they are generating submerged economy -, that we give them good news or open the door to that before the end of this legislature we will do justice on a question that will produce the destruction of more than 76,000 jobs. To close my speech, Minister, we today, from Convergence and from Union, are proposing an initiative aimed at the real economy of services, such as hairdressers, beauty salons and gyms, which are having a really bad time and which are waiting for the Government to raise this significant reduction in value added tax, this indirect tax, from 21 % to 10 % and to give them today - as you have said they are going to do - the joy and good news that they will indeed cease to suffer and that more than 76,000 jobs will be avoided, which will be destroyed, Minister, if you do not rectify this issue. Surely, if you do this reduction of VAT in this sector, you will not notice it in the increase of the collection and you will even experience a slight improvement because you will not destroy those more than 70,000 jobs, you will not close establishments in this sector and we will finally have done a great favor to the real economy, to the real world economy, to the domestic economies. Probably also many people who are in vocational training, who are or were in practice in these important sectors, will regain the illusion of being able to practice their professional studies in the world of beauty, in the world of hairdressing, in the world of gyms and in the world of sport. We therefore respectfully hope that you can say today that you will accept the approach that Convergence and Democratic Union has taken and that, finally, this reduction in VAT from 21 % to 10 % will be possible throughout this parliamentary term. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has his limitations, like everyone else; he has to make his checks and he has to make his estimates, obviously, before proposing any kind of exchange, whether in tax matters or accepting or favouring public expenditure arising from himself, from the sphere of his competence or from other areas of government. Mr Sánchez i Llibre, what we have to explain to everyone is that there is no such thing as macroeconomics; I don't know how to say it anymore. How will macroeconomics exist? Macroeconomics is the sum of microeconomics. You rightly say that we are not understood - I think it is also because of other things - but that is because, really, the language of economic policy is sometimes not easy, although, obviously, there is no economic growth if the different sectors of economic activity do not participate. Therefore, when I say that VAT from small and medium-sized enterprises, from January to May 2015 on January to May 2014, is growing by 10,5%... Is that a macro figure? Well, it means someone's paying VAT, which is the small and medium-sized company. I'm not talking about big companies, I'm not talking about consolidated groups of companies, I'm talking about someone paying VAT. Today, with computer records, that someone could even identify himself; we have enough technology to make a breakdown behind that figure. It is also possible to identify territorially who is paying the highest amounts, because it has more economic activity, in relation to other parts of the Spanish territory. Today that can be done, therefore, what we have to explain is that if we are experiencing an economic recovery, it means that the economic sectors - of course not all at the same rate - are being incorporated into this. I have already said before that I have asked for forgiveness - what more do you want me to do? - for having had to raise all the VAT, not only from reduced to general. They have a minister whose conviction, if he wants intellectual, intimate and personal with the rise of VAT is already declared but at least let us recognize that he is being useful to get out of the crisis. Let us recognise this, because these are not incompatible figures; it is now when VAT is being collected. Could I have made an ascent statement, like the one I just made, a year ago? No, no, I can do it since the economy starts to change. Who changes the economy? The company. Who changes the economy? Small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what's happening in our country. We have to incorporate more companies, smaller and medium-sized companies, no doubt. And what is the government's policy? Stimulating the incorporation of smaller and medium-sized enterprises by lowering taxes, which we have already done for entrepreneurs; by the way, that we have done all that policy with your support, with your cooperation, I am not going to complain now in public as I have complained about the non-support of other political groups in the House, because we have done it with you, we have done it together. We are therefore doing this policy together to stimulate the economic development of our country. Now the role of our SMEs, our autonomous ones, is growing. What is the response that the Government should give? Then return the effort you asked of them at the time. I insist, it is President Rajoy who makes that statement in this House. Our intention as a Government is to return those efforts in the form of tax cuts to society as a whole and in a language, as his lordship rightly put it, more accessible. But it's not because you talk more about micro and I talk about macro, don't tell me those things because I'm still defrauding myself more. It's not that. You pose an economic activity that is important to everyone, that is typical of a developed society and obviously has the full support of the Government in terms of sensitivity to that economic activity, although obviously we have to continue working to further develop in our country. We are giving it the framework, the economic scenario for it to have that development, which is the framework for economic growth, because when we fall, consumption falls, jobs are destroyed and all activities are unprotected, but also particularly the economic activities we are talking about. Obviously people are going to dispense with or reduce the use of certain services, some before others, and therefore, as this new environment is being created, we are favoring their activity. Madam President, I conclude by confirming that the Government's intention is to lower taxes when we analyse the figures and confirm that we can do so without harming the public deficit target, without thereby harming the financing of economic recovery and without harming the coherence of all our administrations in achieving that public deficit target. This strengthens economic recovery, job creation and continues to favour this tax and tax rebate return policy, which we have already been implementing since the beginning of 2015. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u169	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u170	We shall now proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals that could not be heard at the Tuesday sitting and whose vote, I remind you, will take place at tomorrow's sitting. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the position of the Government in relation to the crisis situation and the specific way in which it affects women. Mrs Enbeita has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting this motion as a result of urgent questioning because we really believe that the current crisis should serve to question the economy, public services and social structures that have brought us to it. It would not be much more to turn the crisis into an opportunity, an opportunity to place once and for all life in the center of the economy or in the center of the system if they prefer. Although we know that the crisis does not affect all genders, sex, social class, race or ethnicity alike, let us stop victimizing ourselves and dare to take a step forward. As Bertolt Brecht said, the crisis occurs when the old has not just died and the new has not just been born. And it is true that the crisis needs urgent exits; at least we know that some consequences of the crisis need to be addressed now, but making a deeper analysis would help us to put ourselves in a parameter of not returning to a structural crisis like the one we have in hand. It has cost us years of feminist struggle, but we have come to understand that we have survived as women and as people to the conflict between capital and life. This conclusion should be used to prioritize the sustainability of life in the face of capital; it should be used to recognize that unpaid and non-commercialized work has sustained the system as much as the market itself. We women have reproduced life; fortunately or unfortunately we have that capacity and we have approached it - well, if we have approached it! - with responsibility. But beyond the ability to reproduce it, it has been up to us to sustain life, to care for it and to care for it. The precariousness of work as one of the main consequences of labour reform has ended with rights that it had taken us years to achieve. This, apart from the dismantling of public services, has meant that many women have to return to their homes to care for older or younger people without any remuneration. The State is now far from guaranteeing the full autonomy of all people and women offer the care that public institutions refuse to offer. Clearly, this is much cheaper for the Government. It is time to change the concept of life and its sustainability. It is time to understand that for life to maintain a minimum quality, it is necessary to recognize its vulnerability. In the first years of our life and at the end of it we will all need someone to take care of us. This, not to mention the infinity of health problems or emotional problems that we can have in the development of our lives. We are interdependent, so it is necessary to assume that care work is not a responsibility of women, but rather a responsibility of the whole society, and a solidarity society should be accompanied by institutions capable of providing the public services necessary for the personal autonomy of everyone at every moment of our lives. As long as we do not assume that, we will continue to condemn women to stay at home to do the care work without recognition and without any remuneration. We also need an education system that ensures co-responsibility between the coming generations, because it is clear that in today's world it is a pending subject; an education system that recovers gender values, which have been lost. Let's stop reproducing typical families of supportive men and caring women. We have to make it clear that women make life happen again, but that sustaining that life is the responsibility of everyone. As things are now, women, even unintentionally, support this system. We make care work much cheaper than they should be and that the productive economy never lacks clean, prepared labour and a well-ironed suit every morning. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the urgent exits to the crisis, we propose that interdependence and reproduction and sustainability of life should be on the political agenda. For what? To offer a complete alternative to the crisis; not to condemn care to 50% of society, i.e. women; so that life is worth more than money within the productive system; so that the accumulation of capital ceases to be the most important and the reproduction of life is key; so that men can develop their care capacities, which I do not know if we realize that they also have them; so that women can contribute to the economy, whether or not they have paid work, and above all to understand that the responsibility for the quality of life lies with all people living in a society, of all and of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Enbeita. To defend the amendments made by the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left intervenes Mrs De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u173	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Plural Left is going to support the motion put to us by Amaiur as it puts forward proposals aimed at achieving real equality between men and women in a cross-cutting way and taking into account educational, labour, health and legislative aspects, all of which correspond to areas of political action indispensable for achieving the ultimate objective of real equality which, under the pretext of the crisis, have been seriously undermined, particularly affecting women as recipients and carriers of public services guaranteeing basic rights. Here we have to point out that in all possible ways and with greater or lesser fortune this is something that we have been consistently claiming from my group throughout the legislature in the face of the austere and indecent policies that the People's Party in the Government is carrying out in the form of cuts in rights and freedoms against women. Apart from all this, our positive assessment of this motion focuses on the debate that Mrs Enbeita raises through the express request for a paradigm shift so that the interdependence of human beings with each other and with the nature, reproduction and sustainability of life are central to the political, economic and social agenda. We affirm here without fear of being mistaken that the capitalist system and the neoliberal thinking that sustains it have relegated life to an irrelevant role in the face of economic and market interests, accepting himself in a hegemonic way until reaching the crisis swindles inequalities as something intrinsic and irremediable in modern society. Everything is right so that a minority on the planet can enjoy a certain stable share of well-being, including the abandonment of the needs of the majority and the most vulnerable, along with the destruction of nature. Everything goes in an inhuman and indecent way in order to maintain results accounts, productivity, consumption and speculation. Under these premises, the reproductive and caring tasks and the social responsibility of States to guarantee the fundamental rights that provide people with a dignified life are socially repugnant, undervalued, cut short and despised. A person applies only to the extent of his or her economic, productive and consumer capacity. At this point, the need for change must be rooted in the incorporation into political and social debate of interdependence, reproduction and sustainability of life as fundamental values in order to achieve a more just and equal society. Ultimately, it is about putting people and their needs at the centre of all policies. This is undoubtedly the most powerful weapon to combat neoliberal policies based on the reduction of rights that particularly affect women and sustain the rearmament of the capitalist system, subject to continuing crises that increasingly condemn people to poverty, exclusion and despair. We need care tasks to cease to be a gender issue in order to become a social and vital added value. We believe that it should be the States that guarantee the fundamental basic rights to life, in addition to being shared equally and co-responsibility between men and women. It has been empirically demonstrated that, as States become unaware of reproductive and care tasks, it is women who lose. Even in the hypothetical event of full co-responsibility between men and women, we cannot allow care tasks to fall solely on the families. If we really want to achieve this profound paradigm shift, we must demand the responsibility of society as a whole, which must be assumed by States through sound public services, while guaranteeing the basic rights that provide a decent life. With that intention we have tabled our amendments to the proposals of the motion put forward by Amaiur to improve them in concrete terms and in order to achieve the purposes we certainly share. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. Mrs Montón has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis, first financial, then economic and later institutional and value crisis or, rather, the management of these successive crises that the People's Party Government has carried out has destroyed the lives of thousands of people, especially thousands of women who have been expelled from the labour market, women who are precarious to poverty and exploited on double and triple days because they have to face the demolition of the welfare state that this Government has systematically carried out. Because Rajoy's government policies have dismantled, dismantled social services and the Unit Act, drastically cut investment in health and education and eliminated education from zero to three years. They have also deregulated working time with labour reform against co-responsibility and conciliation; they have opened the door to overtime, to part-time contracts covering full-time work and to hourly reductions at the cost of wage losses in order to be able to take care of minors, older persons or dependants. All these elements are extraordinarily burdening women in the labour market; they are policies designed to bring women back to the outdated role of care and household chores. For the first time in 40 years, the female labour force is falling and the activity rate is falling, i.e., less employment and more unemployment for women. In addition, the latest annual wage structure survey shows that the gross annual remuneration for women workers is 24% lower than for men. This inequality is multiplying in pensions, where the gap reaches 39%, an inequality that is leading women to poverty and social exclusion, as shown by all international agencies and NGOs. This Government has been told by Caritas, Red Cross, ILO or the World Economic Forum, but the Government prefers to continue deepening inequality. Ladies and gentlemen, achieving gender equality, in addition to a democratic objective for the fulfilment of basic fundamental rights, is the great challenge our country has to develop the economic and social potential we need, to achieve a just exit from the crisis, a true economy of equality, which is what we need. And this goes through the sharing of care between the two sexes by eliminating the almost exclusive allocation that women have and by ending the wage gap and all the added difficulties they have in the labour market. Mrs Enbeita, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment respecting the proposal resulting from the inquiry, although we would have liked it to have deepened further; we would have liked it to have tabled a more ambitious and proposed motion, which would have had an impact on the root of the structural issues to improve women's lives, but in keeping with your text, Your Honor, I would like to say that we do not have to invent a new Unit Law, we already have a good Unit Law, what this Government has to do is to comply with it. Therefore, it is not a problem of the law, it is a problem of providing it with resources and of not cutting back on vital issues, of abandoning the government for the privileged and beginning to govern for the people; of not ruling against women and beginning to govern for the whole citizenry. And yes, of course yes, of course we must repeal labour reform and all the reforms that are destroying the lives of thousands of women, including the abortion reform that is now being processed by the PP. Therefore, Mrs Enbeita, we will support your motion, if you will respond to our amendment and we will be willing to participate in the compromise that you wish to present to us, because the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Party, is always and always will be in the defence of women's rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Monton. The Basque Group, Mr Agirretxea, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u177	Thank you, Madam President. The motion presented to us by Amaiur as a result of the urgent inquiry analyses the impact of the economic crisis on women and criticizes or questions the cuts that have been specifically suffered by the women's sector in the area of aid. Obviously, both in the literature before the operative part and in the measures proposed by Mrs Enbeita, there appears to be unequivocal goodwill and no doubt some of the objectives she sets out are reasonable and even desirable. Nothing to object to the explanatory statement in this text. Undoubtedly, the situation of women is more precarious, weaker and less considered in non-institutional or public labour relations, and in turn the so-called conciliation does not yet come to fruition in the basics. The data is to back off. The Spanish State is behind conciliation at European level. First of all, we have to have work to reconcile. The enormous unemployment and even more the female unemployment are the greatest impediment to relations on equal terms, a previous phase and priority for conciliation. On the other hand, in many places hiring a woman with a desire to have children is still a problem. If that is a problem, as I said in the previous motion before this House, as a society we all have a problem. Similarly, as explained in the text of Amaiur, the ageing of the population and longevity, although a great advance in society, have generated more dependence, and there is no doubt that the care of the elderly continues to have a female face today. We must say, however, that, thanks to models of action and intervention policies, such as those that have taken place in Euskadi, for example, for many years, as pioneers in social policy in conjunction with public-private agreements, the differences and repercussions have been smaller than elsewhere; but above all because we have been able to manage our own social policies in areas such as the empowerment of basic social services, social inclusion, care for the elderly, breathing programmes, encouragement and economic aid for conciliation and, above all, training, because we have the capacity and we continue to have the competence to do so. As I said, nothing to object to the explanatory part of the text until we have reached the operative part. With all due respect, Mrs Enbeita, this text could have been drafted perfectly by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and I say this because, coming from whom it comes, I find it incredible that it suffers from the same mistakes, at least for us, that the Socialist Party or even the PP, but never a party like mine. How is it possible for Amaiur to request in Congress the deputies that the Government of the State implement educational programmes, that a new law of dependence is created, that the public health service is optimized? [[Pronounce words in Basque]] That is a competitive invasion and appeal to Spanish centralism. Mrs Enbeita, education programmes are autonomous competence, in the case of the Basque Government's Euskadi. The Unit Act totally invades the powers in this area that, in our case, the deputies have, so we voted against it in its day, because it was totally invasive. And the public health service in Euskadi is from Osakidetza. How is it possible for you to ask in this House what it would be up to you to do in Gasteiz? Moreover, we have again fallen into the usual error: to confuse the egg with the fury; to confuse the objectives with those who are competent to fulfill them; to ask not those who cannot do it but those who must not do it. We have criticized many times in this House for not doing so by those who do not have to do so, because there are already those who have to do so, who are competent in this matter. I hope you understand that, even if you agree with the objectives of everything else, we cannot fall into the net of error that we ourselves countless times have criticized and criticized other formations. Therefore, to defend our space, capabilities and competences is to defend Euskadi - or Euskal Herria, as you wish -, the rest seems to me to be just words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Ciuró has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, I rise to the stand to defend the position of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union and to tell the proposer that we are very much in agreement with her speech. We agree that the crisis deepens inequalities. There is an expression from sociologist Bauman that explains that the crisis makes the rich, the especially rich, the richest and the poor, the especially poor, the poorest. This attributes it to a process of dispossession. What does dispossession mean for Bauman, when there is dispossession? There is dispossession when promotion, power status, decision-making revert to one sector of the population because another sector is systematically dispossessed, relegated to other tasks. And there is also, of course, dispossession in terms of gender. Thus, while women devote many energies to the care of minors, dependents, unpaid work to make it compatible with paid work, most men can devote all those energies that we share to increasing their social projection, their labour projection and supporting themselves in decision-making. Therefore, they increase roles and stereotypes and, in rebound, they increase the economic, labour and social gap between men and women. What to do? Can we do something? Indeed, we can and must do something, and we have tools above all from the Legislature. From the Legislature we can promote changes to achieve equality and end dispossession. What have we done during these four years with the legislation promoted in this case by the majority group? We are promoting, necessarily cooperating with dispossession, because the system is acting as a systemic patriarchy that fosters this dispossession. I'll explain. How has the People's Party Government cooperated in this dispossession of women? For example, by increasing legal custody and thus allowing women to reduce their working hours not to 8 years of age, but to 12 years of age for younger children. This reduction in employment, which in principle should not result in discrimination against men, is mainly taken by women, by 96 %. Mostly it is women who opt for reduced working hours. This brings us to the exclusion of work, the economic precariousness of the present and the economic precariousness of the future by influencing tomorrow's pensions because we continue to contribute less. To try to alleviate the future contribution and our future poverty, the People's Party has again necessarily cooperated with dispossession by granting a gift, a plus in women's pension for as many children as possible. Therefore, the Government of the People's Party seems to maintain the present precariousness in order to deal with a subsidy in the future in the form of a pension bonus, rather than being proactive and addressing, for example, the entry into force of the four weeks of paternity leave and to study the conclusions of the subcommittee on rationalization, conciliation and co-responsibility - pending discussion in plenary - whose points we approve - the vast majority - unanimously. Nor have they addressed the study, to which they committed themselves with their vows in subcommission, to analyze the equalization of maternity and paternity leave in order that we not only be the ones who, as has traditionally been done - the legislation obliges us - take leave for care. Therefore, since there are mechanisms to be able to address this dispossession, from the Parliamentary Group of Democratic Convergence and Democratic Union we do not resign ourselves to accepting that this dispossession of labour projection, decision-making and achievement of power status in women in 50% of the population continues to be present. However, Mrs Enbeita, I have to tell you that our Parliamentary Group on Convergence i Unió will not be able to support your motion and we are going to abstain, since we believe that it is a complete invasion of the competences of the Government of Catalonia and that it is already applying in the field of education, in the field of social services, in the matter of the Unit Law. I reiterate the words of the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party and therefore we want to preserve the competences that our Government has in order to further develop them from Convergence and Union. Nor do we understand that it is very clear that the approach is taken from co-responsibility. We do not want to continue to be the women who do co-responsibility and conciliation work, we believe that the other 50% of the population, in this case men, should also be involved in this task. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain in the vote on this motion and hope that the vice of dispossession in women will end when this parliamentary term is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the People's Group, Mrs Rodríguez Maniega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Something has changed in the world when Convergence invokes Marxist theories and presents here Marxist terms; something has changed in the world. This motion speaks of crisis and how this crisis affects women and families, and it is good that we remember it because now that recovery has begun, it seems that some have soon forgotten how they left this country. Just four years ago, the situation in Spain was dramatic, we were on the verge of economic bankruptcy. The legacy left to us by the Socialist Government of Zapatero can be summed up in one sentence: all the indicators were negative and more than 5 million Spaniards were unemployed, abandoned to their fate by an exhausted government, unable to cope with the situation. During these four years, the objectives of the Government of the People's Party and the People's Parliamentary Group have been clear: to recover the country's economy, to create employment and to guarantee the welfare state. We are doing this thanks to the measures we have put in place, thanks to the efforts of the Spanish and, if we persevere, things will certainly be better in the future. A lot has happened in these four years. We can review the measures that our Government has taken and that the parliamentary group in this House has pushed to combat inequality and to promote real equality, but I am afraid that it would consume the speaking time if it tried to list them all, not even the most important ones, because they are many and very varied. The left of this House has us accustomed to presenting typical motions converted into a sort of tailor's drawer, which speaks of employment, dependence, education, pensions and a long number of subjects, all of which are dots, vaguely, imprecisely and without providing a single concrete measure. Statements of intent without greater pretension than based on false premises to reach absolute and intentionally wrong conclusions. What you seek is to deny the action of an eminently social government, but reality supports us. This motion could be understood at the beginning of the parliamentary term, but not now, after the work of a subcommittee in which we are dealing with conciliation and co-responsibility and in which his lordship and his group did not make a single contribution during the rare occasions when it was allowed to appear at the meetings. She is now concerned about the situation of women, but while you were deciding, we were working, and while you were dealing with other issues, the Government was presenting the most ambitious Equality Plan to date, with more than €3 billion aimed at improving the situation of women. Of these more than EUR 3 billion, 7 out of every 10 go to conciliation and employment policies. This plan envisages 224 measures which, as I have already told you, I am unable to give up one by one because we would be short of time, but they are already developing and are seeking to encourage and improve the participation of women in the social and economic spheres, to promote equal opportunities in the education system and to integrate the principle of equality in all actions of the Government, not forgetting rural women and women in a situation of special vulnerability. To get to know them, Your Honor, I will send you through the services of the House a copy of the Equal Opportunities Plan. Let's talk about pensions. Not only have we not lowered pensions, but we have raised them, updating them even at the most difficult times. In addition, in May, the Government adopted the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, developed in collaboration with the association movement, listening to the proposals that the associations had been able to address to the Government. There is a section on conciliation and co-responsibility. Read it, Your Honor, because I will also send you the plan through the services of the House; a plan that recognizes the efforts of women who decide to be caregivers, because, indeed, there are women who do so voluntarily and others who do so because they have had to do so. We are the women who suffer a double penalty. It is we who reduce working hours or ask for surpluses to take care of our own, and this means that when we reach retirement age we receive pensions up to 37% lower than that of men. That is why the Government decides to supplement the new pensions of women who have had two or more children in one of the 225 measures of the Comprehensive Family Support Plan which, I insist, I cannot now list one by one and which you seem to be unaware of. It is a novel measure in Spain, but it is not a gift; it is a measure that is already being implemented in countries in our environment such as France, a social measure of a government that works to ensure the social well-being of Spanish and Spanish people. I'm finishing up, Madam President. As for dependency, there is no need for another law, what is needed is to improve the enforcement of the law that we already have, and we are doing so. We have reduced waiting lists by 55%, incorporated more than 350,000 new beneficiaries, introduced common quality criteria throughout Spain. Today, the system of dependency is more just, more supportive and keeps intact the rights and appraisal of the former Government but expands the catalogue of services and benefits and is creating employment. Mrs. Montón, listen when you talk and look at the hemeroteca, who's been paying...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u182	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u183	I conclude by saying that, as the President rightly points out, I do not have time in this speech to tell you everything the Government has done and all the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group. I will forward these two plans to you through the services of the House. Compare them with your motion and see that your motion does not bring anything new. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez Maniega. Mrs Enbeita, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u185	We're trying to reach a transactional. When we have it, we'll introduce it to the House. [[Mrs Ciuro i Buldó asked for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u187	Thank you, Madam President. It is for allusions, for the fact that the speaker of the People's Group has called me Marxist.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u188	It is part of the debate, Mrs Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u189	I state that I should check whether you call a Marxist a person who condemned the totalitarianism of communism. [[Mrs. De las Heras Ladera utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u190	Mrs. De Las Heras, please. Mrs. Rodriguez Maniega.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u191	I didn't call him Marxist, I say he's curious and something has changed in the world when Convergence goes up to the stand to speak in Marxist terms. Thank you very much. [[Mrs Ciuro i Buldó asked for the floor.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u192	Thank you very much. The discussion is over, Mrs. Ciuro. - OF THE IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON THE NEED FOR A PARLIAMENTAL DEBATE ON THE CASES OF POLITICAL CORRUPTION CONCERNING THIS LEGISLATION AND THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTNERS IN THE LAST 20 YEARS. [[File number 173/000224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u193	We move on to the next point. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, on the need to hold a parliamentary debate on the cases of political corruption known during the current legislature and the financing of political parties in the last twenty years. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is proposing a motion for this House to launch a committee of inquiry into possible irregular financing of political parties and cases of corruption. [[The Lord]] We do so after having had to use a method that we understood was not the right one, the interpellation, because you have refused week after week that this plenary could discuss this issue, but sooner than later you will have to vote and tomorrow you will have to decide whether you will once again block the possibility that this Parliament will investigate or once and for all respond to what the citizenry has been demanding, and that there is light and stenographers around what has happened in this country in recent years. Our group proposes this because we believe that there is a need for a commission of inquiry to investigate all political parties, to investigate all possible cases of corruption. We say this not because of a whim, but because the poll that gives less value suggests that 70% of the Spanish and Spanish make this demand to this House, they say that the majority of the Spanish want it to be investigated, and we do so because we cannot hide that there is distrust, that there is detachment to this House and to politics in general. Therefore, when there is this reality outside the House, we cannot put fences on the contrary, but put light and stenographers on the contrary. We do this because it is a reality that many cases of corruption have been reported in this legislature, multiple cases have been reported that indicate the possibility of irregular funding of political parties. Therefore, we want to investigate everyone - we said it last week - also us. We think we should talk about the Brugal case, the Gürtel plot, the Pokemon operation and many more. We have to talk and we have to investigate because the financing of political parties is something that not only corresponds to the legal sphere, but not only to the Court of Auditors, but also to this House. The Government was telling us last week that many things had been done, and indeed some things have been done, but there is no possibility of looking to the future if the past is not clarified. There is no legitimacy to talk about the future if the past is not concrete; a past in which there are things that are, at least, surprising, because there is a judge's car talking about hard drives that have been formatted, hard drives of computers that have been destroyed, of concealment when Mr. Bárcenas's agendas have been broken and destroyed shortly after entering prison. So there are suspicions. When we made this proposal, the only answer we found from the People's Party - and it is in the 'Diary of Sessions' - was for a Member to say: Let's also talk about Rivas! Of course we want to talk about Rivas, because those who fear nothing should not. And those of us who fear nothing, we owe nothing. So, we do want to talk about Rivas. We want to talk about all the cases on which there are suspicions to clarify them because we don't owe anything, but you don't. You have been denying that it is being investigated, and it is a shame that not a single committee of inquiry has been set up in this legislature. You have charged yourself with the legitimacy of the commissions of inquiry themselves, because justice goes on one side and has its deadlines, it prescribes, it has its legal devices, but we are talking about the political legitimacy of this House, the political dignity of democracy itself, and that is what you week after week have prevented in the Board of Spokesmen and in plenary when it arrived. We therefore believe that it is important that the cases of corruption that have occurred, apart from their judicial treatment, have political treatment, because - and we have said this in and even outside this House - behind a public office that can be sold there is also an entrepreneur or an economic agent who buys it, and those are not coming out in public. And we also want them to be investigated, to investigate who has promoted corruption, because - I repeat - if a politician is sold it is because someone buys it, and those are not going to the courts to declare. Therefore, we also want to know in this country who has bought the politicians that have been able to sell, because corruption has caused it an economic bubble and an economic system that has been used by these corrupt to become richer and richer while driving this country to economic ruin. That is why we believe it is important for you, even at the last minute of the party, to reflect and assume that it is essential that in this country, even if it is, I repeat, already in the discount period, a commission be set up to investigate so that you can declare those who have been active agents in the financing of political parties, those who have also been able to be active agents - in this very negative case - in cases of corruption, beyond the judicial issue. We believe that it is also important that there be a reflection not only of the future, but of what has happened in this country, why such cases of corruption have come to pass, what has failed in parliamentary controls, why a regulation - made clearly to support a government and not for an active debate or a lively debate in this House - has prevented parliamentary controls, has prevented the normal rules of power-sharing from working. All that has to be investigated and we are not worth it with future laws, because they have no credibility. You have today, I repeat, that responsibility to gain credibility, to assume and to take the lead in the investigation. And I repeat, of all, of all, of all of us, of all, because we want to get everyone clean out of this investigation. Those who fear not getting out clean are the ones who will vote against tomorrow because they will fear not getting out clean from the investigation. Those of us who are convinced that we will get out of the investigation clean, tomorrow, with two hands, we will press the yes button. Because, I repeat, what people outside need to know from here is that there are people who want to investigate. What people are going to know tomorrow is who wants to investigate, who wants to put their hard drives - those that have not been destroyed - at the disposal of this House and who wants to defend themselves in a legal majority but which today does not correspond to the citizen majority, as has been shown not many days ago, an absolute majority to continue blocking their investigation. But, I repeat in the last forty seconds of my speech: you will be able to block it today, you have enough Members; but I am sure that from November onwards you will not have those Members and Members of Parliament enough to block us and, therefore, if you do not go through the good things in your head today, you will go through the bad things, you will go after that committee of inquiry, because the sooner a committee of inquiry will be in this House, the sooner a United Left will be an active agent that this parliamentary majority will be obtained so that there will be such a Commission and that, once and for all, the Spanish and Spanish people will be told what has happened in this country in recent years to achieve the situation of corruption that has now been achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. No amendments have been tabled to this initiative, so we are in the position-setting stage. Mr Baldoví, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many times I have been asked in various interviews why with all the cases of corruption that the People's Party had, the People's Party continued to win in the Valencian Community. And now that we're almost in the privacy of these quiet hours of Congress, I think I can give some of the answer, in my opinion. The answer is not long ago a headline who said: The judge of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Autonomous Community of Valencia, figures the illegal financing of the People's Party at 4 million and sues the summit of Camps. A long time ago I saw an Oprah Winfrey interview with cyclist Lance Armstrong. In that interview Armstrong admitted that it was impossible to win seven tours without doping. Indeed, the People's Party is the most voted party, as they are repeating in a tiring, repetitive way and every day. But it has been the most voted party thanks to the doping of illegal financing in Valencia, Madrid, Balearic Islands, Galicia, Castile, Murcia. Another headline not long ago: The judge of the National High Court, Pablo Ruz, considers it accredited that the People's Party had a B-box, an opaque accounting, between 1990 and 2008, with which it took - I don't say, the judge says - electoral campaigns, outstanding to leaders and the reforms of their premises. Armstrong lost his seven tours because it was shown that he had won by cheating. The PP has won its electoral victories by cheating doped with illegal financing. How do we get them off now, gentlemen of the PP, their Tours won by cheating? But, above all, what do we do with the more than two hundred laws and decree-laws that they have passed playing with advantage? How did we repay the damage done by its laws to workers, retirees, students, dependents, dispossessed, laws that were passed by the doping force that were injected with those illegal funds? I insist, how do we remove the Tour from the PP? Compromís-Equo announces its vote in favour of this initiative, because until the PP agrees to discuss irregular funding of the parties no one will be able to believe in their promises of transparency and we will always have, as in that famous film by Alfred Hitchcock, The shadow of a doubt, the doubt of the cleaning up of the elections won by the People's Party and, above all, its disastrous consequences. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u197	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Centella, after making an exegesis of your laconic motion, I have not been able to discern very well what it is that you intended with your presentation - I was not lucky enough to hear you in the interpellation -; it could be a sort of assessment, through the commission, of corruption in abstract, for which we simply read Plato in the Republic or the philosophers of the Frankfurt School, Habermas or Adorno, or read the newspapers even or, as you have explained better, study through that commission of study this corruption with which we have lived in this legislature and which has deeply eroded its own democratic foundations. This second one worries us very much because, of course, the levels of corruption with which we have lived in this legislature are unbearable for the institutions, are unbearable for honest politicians and have been unbearable, causing the disaffection that you have commented, for the citizens. What is happening is that we feel that it is already a little out of time at this stage of the legislature to set up a commission of inquiry, especially when the laws that could come from its recommendations are already all passed. We have just adopted a partial reform of the Criminal Code, which focuses primarily on criminal types that refer to political corruption. That maybe it's a failed attempt? You are right, but we can verify that through the jurisdictional and jurisprudential application of this Criminal Code. That the criminal charge is still not sufficient and that the coed is sentenced to only two years' imprisonment or the trafficking of influences with one year's imprisonment or ten months' imprisonment? We consider it insufficient, certainly you too, but that is what there is and we will see the case law application as far as it goes to suppress a pathology, which is a democratic pathology, a democratic atrophy. The Criminal Prosecution Act has been amended to also attempt to shorten the time limits for summary investigation of crimes of political corruption. It can be another failed attempt also as long as the expertise that is recorded there is expertise that the Administration itself performs, mainly the Tax Agency in collaboration with the Administration of Justice to reveal or disclose cases of corruption, but the Tax Agency is not independent and, of course, we also have reservations there, but there is the law and we will see what possibilities in its jurisprudence to suppress this democratic atrophy that means corruption. We have passed funding laws or partially reformed the Financing of Political Parties Act. This reform will certainly be insufficient, but it has been achieved. Let us see what possibilities it gives to remove cases of corruption that refer to the financing of political parties. The Law on Incompatibilities of Senior Officials and Senior Officials has also been reformed. You have participated in some of the consensus that has led to the reform of these laws. We will give these laws the opportunity to carry out their duties. We'll see if they're enough or insufficient to end this pathology. We are already commenting on some of the reservations we have with regard to these legal rules, adopted by political consensus among almost all parliamentary groups, in order to put an end to this pathology. The Transparency Act has been adopted. It can be a very important law as long as it has been corrected and the result of a very broad political consensus. We are going to give time to have enough foresight to analyze whether these laws are enough to at least reduce the pathology of corruption because, after all, you do not escape, Mr Centella, who is an intelligent deputy, that this is part of the human factor, paraphrasing another important philosopher, and the perhaps irregular funding needs of political parties, up to such irregular limits that... Perhaps what we need to do, Mr President, is to project positive examples to citizens. When I have known the composition of the Chamber of Judges who are going to prosecute the Gürtel plot, the projection of that image is terribly worrying and provokes more disaffection and distrust than any of the topics you have commented on in your inquiry. When two of the judges who make up that chamber are two judges who are ideologically linked, in a known, public, notorious and unequivocal way to the People's Party, the generation of suspicions of this nature can cause more harm to the fight against corruption, articulated through the many rules I have cited to you, than this situation I am commenting on, than this shadow of suspicion. If the mechanisms of abstention in relation to the attitude of these judges, so linked to the political party to which they must prosecute from the perspective of their irregular financing, or the objections that have been presented do not bear fruit, Mr Centella, here we will indeed be projecting a very bad institutional image on any possibility, on any certain will to remove corruption in abstract form, as you mentioned in your motion, and in particular in relation to the plot to which you have so long devoted in your intervention. Then the removal of problems of corruption is not only a problem of lege canta or lege ferenda; it is a problem of projection of positive images and of clear and energetic images to the citizenry. And if these are the images that we are going to start to project, even if it has been the result of luck and the mechanisms of judicial distribution the configuration of this room that is going to prosecute this plot, of course we will not be surprised when the public disaffection and the lack of credibility of the public institutions, in relation to their willingness to end corruption to the extent of the possibilities, will be unproductive. For these reasons, Mr President, it seems to us that in what remains of the legislature - which does not seem to be too long - a committee of inquiry cannot undertake such a huge task, but it would also be a kind of reversal of the terms and logical chronology. First the commission of inquiry should have worked; it should have made its recommendations; these laws that we have commented on should have been drafted and some others that we have not also commented on. The laws have been drafted and the commission of inquiry is intended to set up after the drafting of the laws; there is a kind of reversal of the chronology of natural events in parliament, as we conventionally know it. That is why we are going to abstain, recognizing its good intentions, especially because in addition to these we must project, with our actions and with our facts here, in the Administration of Justice and in any of the powers of the State, sufficient examples for us to be, at least, minimally credible in this area. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u199	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. My group is going to support this motion because we agree - although I agree with Mr Olabarría that there is no time left and in the fair months, that we do not know anyone who is left in the legislature, a commission of inquiry could not carry out a normal activity, and also because it is true that many laws have been passed, perhaps too many - in which exemplaryness is very important and that the Congress of Deputies has to assume a political responsibility for something that is known and even recognized by the beneficiaries themselves, and that the illegal or irregular financing of parties - not only in a criminal sense but irregular as regards the origin of certain funds, agreements with banking entities that then prescribed credits, etc. - has to be examined by the seat of the legislature, of popular sovereignty. If not, what do we really paint here if we are not the guarantors that the elections are being held, as Mr Centella has explained, on an equal and clean basis? And it hasn't been like this for many years. Moreover, my group, which also has no fear of our party being investigated, absolutely no one, has been saying so for some time. Until there is a real assumption that corruption is not merely an isolated criminal act, but a systemic problem that deeply corrodes many key State institutions, the destabilization of democracy and the delegitimization of political parties will not stop increasing and, meanwhile, will inversely increase the prestige of very dangerous populist formulas for all. Having said that, I also have to say that the proliferation of laws does not seem to us to be something that makes the investigation unnecessary, not only because of the moral exemplary with regard to public ethics, but because, recalling the Roman saying, the state that approves the most laws is the most corrupt state. Many legal reforms have indeed been adopted and yet every day we continue to read cases. Today, in Alcalá de Henares, certain people have been arrested who are part of a corruption plot linked to the city hall and who have already been denounced by the councillors of my group in that same town hall at the time; curiously, the intervention of justice has occurred when the municipal elections have already passed. What kind of exemplaryness is this? What kind of country is this where it is so easy to benefit those who are no longer under the suspicion or shadow of corruption, but under an investigation for this reason? The problem is not the proliferation of laws, which is useless if there is no independent and well-endowed justice. This is the problem that I should have included in that research package as well. As long as we do not have an independent system of justice, in which there is no division of the judiciary between the parties, so that things such as those pointed out by Mr Olabarría do not happen, any action taken against corruption will not cease to be that, a flatus voices, a mere gesture towards the gallery that will not reach the bottom of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u201	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group wants to see the good intentions behind the motion that has been defended by the Plural Left today. [[The Lord]] We share the fight against corruption and the need to investigate and know the situation of the financing of political parties, but we do not understand what they are specifically looking for at this time by requesting with this motion the creation of a commission of inquiry. Why? Throughout this legislature we have talked a lot about measures to combat corruption, the Government has put forward a plan of measures to combat it and to address democratic regeneration, and all this has a lot to do with the initiative that you have defended today. In this legislature we have debated a lot on all these issues through various initiatives. Our parliamentary group has had the opportunity to show what its approach was and to present the initiatives it believed could effectively contribute to combating corruption. But what are you asking us today? That a commission of inquiry is set up. As the spokesman for the Basque Parliamentary Group has said, it seems a little absurd to us at the moment of the parliamentary term, because we do not see what light it can bring to the fight against corruption the creation of a commission of inquiry that will not even have time to work, with the plenary sessions that are expected to remain until the end of the parliamentary term. I insist that measures have been adopted in this House and that all these issues have been discussed intensively. We have talked about this in the reform of the Criminal Code, we have talked about this in the Law on Senior Officials of the General Administration of the State, we have talked about this in the Law on Criminal Prosecution and we have also talked about this in the Law on Control of the Economic Regime of the Parties. There have been many appearances in the Constitutional Commission aimed primarily at analysing the fight against corruption and exploring possible measures to eradicate this scourge that affects the foundations of our democratic model. Our parliamentary group will always be on the sidelines of any action that involves an effective fight against corruption, but, frankly, we do not understand why this initiative is being presented at this time in the legislature, when the proposing group knows perfectly well that there will be no time for a committee of inquiry that will not take us anywhere. On certain occasions it gives us the impression that instead of providing measures that are truly effective in combating corruption, what is intended is to make noise. On the other hand, our parliamentary group has already said that the laws and legislative reforms that have been passed in this House throughout the legislature seem to it to be insufficient, absolutely insufficient. In some cases there has been progress, timid progress. We said this here when we discussed the Law on the Control of the Economic-Financial Activity of Political Parties. Our parliamentary group repeatedly insisted - and the rapporteur, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, knows perfectly well - that we had not seriously addressed the issue or the funding model we wanted for political parties. This will be another issue that will continue throughout the next parliamentary term. For the procedural time we are in, we know that this issue is no longer going to be addressed. We had the opportunity to do so on that project and we sincerely regret not having done so, because this is a matter that has much to do with democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption. In short, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group cannot support this proposal today, because it understands that it will not contribute to an effective fight against corruption, especially at this time of the legislature in which we are in. That is why we are abstaining. I insist, our group is on the sidelines of any initiative that could lead to progress in the fight against corruption, but it will not support those proposals that only mean making noise and that do not lead us anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mr Such has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u204	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Member of the Plural Left has said, using a motion to request the establishment of a committee of inquiry is not the normal thing, but at the moment we understand that it is necessary, especially after almost fifteen initiatives of this nature have been presented to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies by my party and none of them have been met. All of them have been rejected. In this regard, we believe that every opportunity given to us to request the establishment of a commission of inquiry to analyse what has happened in this country, to analyse all cases of corruption that may have occurred, is good and necessary. Commissions of inquiry are another instrument in the exercise of control over the Government. They serve to clarify many things and, above all, so that the citizens of our country can first-hand know what is happening in the Congress of Deputies and what is the allegedly criminal activity of some parties. We therefore understand that the motion put forward is appropriate and my group will support it. As some of your honourable Members put forward, some legislative amendments have been made - such as that of the Criminal Code, with the introduction of new elements - but it is no less true that certain extremely corrupt facts that have occurred in this country remain to be clarified. It is not only that Mr Rajoy appears behind a plasma to say that his friends have deceived them; that is not enough. We have repeatedly demanded Mr Rajoy to appear in this House to report on the situation in the People's Party; a party that I remember is on bail right now because of the Bárcenes case and box B. However, you don't think you're alluded to at all. Since the radicality of the absolute majority, they prevent this House from knowing what has happened in the judicial process that Judge Ruz instituted against the People's Party. You guys call yourselves a walker, I mean, you don't care. That is why it is necessary to set up a commission of inquiry. Unfortunately, as a Valencian, I have suffered a lot of corruption cases from leaders of the People's Party; the last, the entry into prison of the former councillor and spokesman of the People's Party in the Valencian Community, Mr Blasco, for having robbed the most needy. We understand that all these things need to be clarified and that the instrument of the committee of inquiry is necessary. It is not enough to say that their friends stole them, but that explanations must be given here, and, above all, to legislate from a given moment does not mean that the events that have taken place before are free from suspicion. Not at all. What has happened in this country within the People's Party - I repeat that it is a party on bail - is tremendously serious for citizens. Just look at the CIS surveys, which state that corruption is the second most important concern for the citizens of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be saved simply by blurring and new accounts and saying that they are going to do things differently from now on. One cannot fight corruption by relying only on the radicality of the absolute majority to cover up the shames of those who have profited from the protection of impunity and the absolute majority. We are extremely concerned at the moment that the Government and the majority group, through certain manoeuvres in the judiciary, are trying not to condemn the corrupt and manipulate the judges. This concerns us and we will be very attentive to this situation. The Government has already taken the first step and we are going to be very careful, because we find it extremely serious to try to manipulate the judiciary to try to favor its friends. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Such. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez de la Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Before proceeding with my statement, I wanted to point out one point. Mr Baldoví, you have made an absolutely intolerable and unacceptable accusation. You said that we have been the most voted party in the last elections because we have been financed illegally, because we have been doped up with illegal funding. I want to tell you two things about this: first of all, who do you believe to disrespect the Valencians and Spaniards who have deposited their ballot papers in the ballot box? Who do you think you are?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secondly, as they are in the 'Diary of Sessions', we are going to study your words very carefully, and I guarantee you that as they constitute some kind of crime - insult, slander, whatever it is - we are going to go to court, because it is absolutely intolerable. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote against the motion for a number of considerations, Mr Centella. The first has been highlighted in this House. Who do you intend to ask for a committee of inquiry on 24 June, when the session is almost over, when the Chambers are to be dissolved in a few months - at the best of times - when the committee of inquiry that you are proposing is going to have virtually no time to set up and, of course, will not be able to do any work? Who do you think? This is a joke, it's a toast to the sun, it's tossing and not hitting, it's a tossing. Why are we going to set up a commission of inquiry when the legislature is almost finished? Second consideration: His proposal includes a perverse and terrible subliminal message for democratic legitimacy in Spain, and is that it unites the word corruption and the lives of political parties, which have brought democracy to this country and which have given it the most important forty years of development, well-being and peace in all its history. Thirdly, it seems that the Spanish Parliament has not spoken on this subject. Do you know, Mr Centella, how many debates we have held in this Parliament during this parliamentary term and on this matter? We have held 87, in plenary session 64 and in committee 23. Therefore, no one will be able to tell us that we have not made Parliament the centre of political activity in the fight against corruption in Spain. Parliament had never debated this issue in a legislature 87 times; no Spanish Parliament has, nor has any European Union Parliament - I have bothered to look at it - in the last 40 years. Fourthly, to bring forward such proposals, Mr Centella, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we must be credible, we must have some coherence and moral authority. I will only quote a few cases - because I do not have too much time - in which you have vetoed commissions of inquiry into bloody corruption matters: Invercaria case, 40 million of the Public Era distributed to the friends of the left in Andalusia; commission of inquiry vetoed by you, of the United Left, and by you, of the Socialist Party. Case of the Andalusian Foundation of the Training and Employment Fund; commission of inquiry vetoed by the United Left and the Socialist Party in Andalusia. Isofoton case, a scandal of 60 million euros that have disappeared from the map and that nobody knows where they are; committee of inquiry vetoed by you, of the United Left, and by you, of the Socialist Party. Case Competitive Bay, 25 million euros of the Public Era that have appeared in a private account in a fiscal paradise; commission of inquiry vetoed by you, of the United Left, and by you, of the Socialist Party. In addition, you vetoed the holding of two extraordinary plenary sessions in August in the Andalusian Parliament just to address the two most scandalous cases of corruption: ERW and training courses. I give you one last consideration: To combat corruption it is not enough to present a toast to the sun like the one that has brought us here; we have to work, we have to put measures on the table and we have to support the governments that are trying to fight corruption. We have adopted more than seventy measures and not one has had your support, Mr Centella. We have brought the Transparency Act, which is a law on the prevention of corruption; they have vetoed it. We have brought the High Charges Act, which is a law on the prevention of corruption in the administration; we have been vetoed. We have brought the Law on Economic and Financial Control of Political Parties, which is a law to prevent corruption within political parties, for example, by prohibiting the debt forgivenesss that you have benefited from; you have vetoed it for us. We have brought to the House the Law on the Financing of Political Parties to rationalize it; we have been vetoed. We have brought the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act to give judges more means and speed up proceedings; they have voted against it. We have brought the reform of the Criminal Code to explicitly criminalize the crime of illegal financing; they have voted against it. We have brought about an increase in the number of places for judges, prosecutors, tax inspectors, police officers, civil guards to fight corruption, and you have voted against it; even in this you have voted against it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very old: Fact, not verb; in Spanish, less preaching and more giving wheat, more seriousness, more credibility and more coherence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-24-CD150624.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez de la Serna. The meeting was suspended. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon. [[*******page with picture **********]]
