ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u1	The meeting was resumed. Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers from 110/000168 to 110/000176. Some groups have said that they want to intervene, so for the usual time, Mr Nuet has the floor, first of all, from the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u2	Thank you, President. My group has asked for a separate vote on two conventions: the one on agenda item 32, the agreement between Spain and the Principality of Andorra, and the one on the European Union's own resources system, number 35. We are both going to abstain and the reasons are very simple. Firstly, in the convention dealing with own resources which nourish the financing of the European Union, there is a step forward and a step backwards, so we are not going to vote against it. Specifically, the agreement addresses for the first time the idea that a financial transaction tax is a source of financing together with other tax forms that the Union also finances. We agree with that proposal, that consideration should be given to the possibility. It's a small step but in the right line. What we do not agree with, because it could set a precedent, is that this concept is chosen by the countries, that is, that within the Union countries that want to use this new form of funding use it and those that do not. If this were to be consolidated, we would have, within the framework of the European Union, countries with taxes and countries without taxes on their financial transactions. It is, therefore, a situation of dumpin from the point of view of taxation and that some banks would have an insured business to the extent that certain capital movements would be registered in some countries and not in others. If Spain accepts this tax to be used, it will be damaged. That phrase should be removed because it is the announcement of a serious problem that exists at this time. We cannot vote in favour of the financial transaction tax being the Charter of the Twenty-Seven. It must be for all or for none and we obviously propose that it be for all. As regards the agreement with the Principality of Andorra, I would first like to make a positive assessment. This agreement is an advance, not a setback. We know that the agreement has been negotiated and that the negotiations have been difficult and difficult between the Kingdom of Spain and the Principality of Andorra, so we welcome this agreement, but we cannot vote in favour because there are still steps to be taken, for example, with regard to the taxation of artists and sportsmen. I'm not gonna name names, but we could say the listing is for boots. We also have another problem with the exchange of information. As you know, there has been a public dispute between the Principality of Andorra, some banking entities, the Kingdom of Spain and its judiciary to the extent that judicial proceedings have been initiated against certain persons. In these two aspects there are a number of exceptions where the trap is; in the exceptions there is the possibility that there are still information problems and that there are still artists and sportsmen who use the Principality of Andorra as a tax haven to evade taxes in the Kingdom of Spain. I repeat, there has been improvement, and at the moment the collaboration is much better, the mechanisms are clearer, but there are still exceptions which, according to the convention, will be of negotiation and interpretation. Therefore, we can go through a lack of clarity to conflicts in the future and can generate those kind of headlines that we have somehow seen in the last few weeks. I would like to congratulate the Government of Andorra and the Government of Spain on this agreement, but I ask you to continue to improve this relationship because it is certainly good for Spain, but above all it is good for the Principality of Andorra, to which we wish the best in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Trinidad Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group, the Socialist Group, as usual, will vote in favour of the conventions which are now being debated and voted on. We do not question any of the nine international treaties; it could not be otherwise, because we have diplomatic relations with all these countries and we usually sign agreements on different subjects and sectors. Of these nine international conventions which the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted at its last meeting, I would like to focus on three. Firstly, the protocol amending the convention between Spain and Andorra to avoid double taxation of personal income taxes and to prevent tax evasion. As with any double taxation agreement - we have signed, I would like to remind you, around eighty - this is intended to provide legal certainty to investors in the signatory countries and to reduce - I think it is important to point out - the taxation of such investments and to avoid double taxation, but above all to facilitate the exchange of tax information between the two countries to prevent tax evasion. This objective will culminate in Andorra's future incorporation into the automatic information exchange system under OECD standards as of 2018. I would like to stress that any steps we take in this direction, as is intended in this agreement, should be welcomed. Also, not because of the subject matter to which they relate, but because of the countries with which they are initialled, I would like to refer to the agreements concluded with Russia to accede to the protocol on the construction and operation of a synchrotronic radiation facility and with Ukraine for the reciprocal protection of classified information. In both cases, the interest of these agreements in Spain is appreciated. In the case of the agreement with Russia, because it will have a considerable economic contribution from that country and in the case of the agreement with Ukraine, because it will provide protection for Spanish interests when submitting certain information to a system of classified use and management. In any case, it will not prevent us from defending a position of firmness which the European Union, and therefore Spain, maintains in relation to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. A position which, in the opinion of my group, should be passed on to a European solution to this conflict which combines respect for the territorial integrity of Ukraine and dialogue with Russia in order to reach a definitive settlement that guarantees stability in the area. That is why I repeat my group's vote in favour of the conventions that are before us today for consideration and vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jiménez. For the People's Group, Mrs Miguélez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u6	Thank you very much, President. Today we bring to this plenary the authorization to the Government of nine international conventions that have been signed with different countries. There are three agreements between the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, with India, the Republic of Albania and Ukraine, and I want to stop at the latter. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation travelled to Kiev in February this year, where the signing of this agreement took place, accompanied by a Spanish business delegation in order to relaunch bilateral relations and, above all, to show Spain's solidarity at a particularly critical time for Ukraine. Spain, as has been said here, has firmly defended a political and lasting solution within the framework of the European Union, always respecting the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine but without thus closing the dialogue with Russia. That has been and will always be the position of the Spanish Government, and the Minister has explained this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The agreement between Ukraine and Spain seeks to preserve Spain's interests in its international relations, because these sometimes require that in the exchange of information, because it affects national security or interests, the degree of classification of that information has to be special. It is necessary to establish certain rules, according to which States can share such sensitive information without risk. Another example of Spain's commitment to Ukraine is reflected in the European Union, since in May this year Spain has already deposited with the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union the instrument of ratification of the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, which has also been discussed by this forum. Another of the conventions, in the group of these nine that we are bringing to the plenary today and which has also been referred to by the spokesman of the Socialist Party, is the protocol of accession of the Russian Federation to the convention signed in 1988 for a European project, the colloquially called cyclotron, particle accelerator. Indeed, the Russian contribution is important; it is 10 million euros that are paid at once, and Russia thus acquires 6 % of the French society created for the development of the project. In this way, its scientists can participate in this multinational research, which is based in Grenoble and has more than forty beams of light from this photon and atom accelerator. Mr Nuet referred to the Council decision on the European Union's own resources system. It was adopted in Brussels on 26 May 2014 and seems to us to be a positive step forward. It aims to ensure that the European Union has a balanced budget that guarantees the resources necessary to finance its policies and, of course, that no Member State suffers from an excessive budgetary burden in relation to its relative prosperity. This agreement sets out the contributions of each country, the corresponding corrections and limits for the period 2014-2020, and it should be noted that for Spain it represents a benefit of EUR 12 million per year in its contribution. The agreement with Andorra, which has also been the subject of attention by other spokespersons to avoid double taxation on income taxes and prevent tax evasion, is from January 2015 and is the result of a commitment to strengthen bilateral relations with Andorra in the tax field and, of course, the intention to extend the network of information exchange agreements. Its content is the same as that of such agreements that Spain has signed with many other countries. It contains anti-abuse clauses and the usual safeguards. Other conventions that have been ratified in this House by other countries have more or less the same content. It incorporates important references to the treatment of what is considered resident for tax purposes. That is, in the case of companies, what is considered to be a permanent establishment, how real estate income is taxed, what are the business profits, what are considered dividends, interest, capital gains, remunerations of advisors, artists and sportsmen - as has been said here - officials, students, etc. Mr Nuet has acknowledged that this is an important step forward and that is what we are defending. During the visit of the President of the Government to Andorra in January 2015, Mariano Rajoy signed this agreement and praised this historic tax and tax reform that the principality has undertaken and that has made an important advance in this necessary process of tax approval of Andorra with the countries of its environment. The convention includes an important article on tax information that expands the effects of the current information exchange agreement in force since 2010, which has had to be strengthened due to this new tax framework of the principality. As from 1 January 2016, the duty of information contained in the Convention is independent of whether the conduct under investigation may constitute a criminal offence or not and may include, if requested by the competent authority of one of the signatory States, the transfer of tax and banking information in the form of witness statements and copies of original documents with the sole requirement that such information be foreseeable relevant, so that States do not have an indefinite freedom to undertake searches for evidence or to request information of dubious relevance to the tax situation of a particular taxpayer. Thus, an important novelty is introduced because not only a judge will be able to make an individual request, but also the so-called group requests, so that since January 2016, for example, Spain could ask Andorra for information about a group of residents in Spain who have subscribed to the same financial product in an Andorran banking entity that had not been declared to the Spanish Treasury. As the Socialist spokesman has also said, Andorra is expected to become part of this OECD automatic information exchange system from 2018, whereby more than half a hundred countries will have their financial accounts free and transparent with each other from 2017. This agreement with Andorra is very important and aims to promote trade and investment relations between the two countries. I conclude by defending the need to validate each and every one of the nine conventions on the agenda today because I believe that they are in favour of Spain's interests and that the negotiations carried out by each of the ministerial departments that have promoted them have undoubtedly been marked by the effort to strengthen our presence at the international level. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miguélez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u8	Let us now discuss the amendments to the whole railway bill. For her presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to do in defence of the railway bill is to thank all the parliamentary groups for the work they have done in recent years to improve and consolidate one of the best railway systems in the world. I am also grateful for the opportunity this morning for this full amendment procedure to re-debate the present and future of one of the most projected and future modes of transport because of its enormous capacity and, above all, because it is one of the least polluting modes of transport with limited CO2 emissions. In addition, it offers me the opportunity to explain what we have done from the Government over the past three and a half years to lay the foundations and ensure the sustainability of one of the most advanced railway networks in the world, which still has a huge drive ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to tell you that the railway system is not the property of any government, but of all the Spaniards. I say this because what we have done is contribute what we have been able to consolidate this great system. We have made a strong commitment to railway infrastructure and this mode of transport because we understand that it generates returns. The Spanish rail system generates a particularly social return as it is a priority mode of transport - as we have seen, it is one of the most chosen by the citizens - and it is conceived on the basis of the real needs and close to each and every one of the citizens of our country. Under this premise I appear in this House with an attitude of permanent willingness to dialogue, whose added value lies in the sum of constructive contributions, and from the far-off satisfaction of any kind of triumphalism that this is possible thanks to all. I think we all share the conviction that the general interest in improving rail transport is everyone's. Our model will be an achievement of all if we put it at the service of the interests of the users, therefore, contribute to cohesion, accessibility and optimal railway connectivity for the development of the social but also industrial fabric of our country is to take advantage of the synergies that the railway system gives and the intermodal conception of the system and of the whole of the transport in Spain. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the railway has been and is - and more importantly it has to be - a fundamental mode of transport for territorial vertebration and for the social development of the country. The Davos Economic Forum considers the Spanish railway network to be the fourth best in the world. I believe that we have won this position with the effort and work of many people for decades, especially in the last thirty years, and the time has come to consolidate what has been achieved and to think in the long term about the railways of this twenty-first century. The law that we are debating today is not a law for the next legislature, not even for the next ten years, it should be a law of permanence, aimed at defining the future of the Spanish railway in the coming decades. We have been dedicated to that since the last days of 2011, to laying solid foundations, which is not a simple task. In 2012 there was the abolition of FEVE, which I remember had a loss of 138 million euros, and its integration in Renfe and ADIF; in Renfe the part of railway services and in ADIF the part of infrastructures. This integration has been carried out in an orderly manner and has enabled greater efficiency in the management of railway services and infrastructure carried out by the former FEVE through the achievement of economies of scale. The transfer of the sections of the state-owned railway network to ADIF was also completed, uniting the functions of ownership and administration of the network for greater efficiency and operationality. Having transferred the state-owned rail network to ADIF, we have transferred 12 billion assets. In addition, ADIF was restructured. The objectives of this transformation were to be able to better manage the various networks it manages and the resources it employs and to ensure the financial sustainability of the railway system. We also restructure Renfe-Operadora, establishing four societies. For what? To make a more efficient management in Renfe: Renfe-travellers, Renfe-goods, Renfe-manufacturing and maintenance and Renfe-renting rolling stock. In passenger transport, ladies and gentlemen, we have begun the process of liberalisation of national rail passenger traffic. We have established that this will be a process that will be carried out in an orderly and progressive way, distinguishing the different market segments, initiating the liberalisation of tourist services and indicating that the liberalisation of commercial services would be carried out through the bidding of enabling securities; I insist, exclusively of commercial services, never from public service obligations. Finally, we have put in place a tender for an enabling licence that will allow a new railway operator to provide passenger transport services along with Renfe in the lift corridor. Ladies and gentlemen, giving an enabling title to a new operator in a corridor means giving more opportunities for travellers to choose from among more services - commercial, I insist - that will lead to an improvement in quality. As far as rail freight transport is concerned, the basic objective has been to make it a real element of the logistics chain. Since the Ministry of Development we have promoted many actions for the improvement of this sector, such as the creation of the logistic unit within the department; the investment in infrastructures of the transport of goods, especially the connectivity of the ports; the improvement of the management of the infrastructures; railway corridors of goods, such as the number 4 or the number 6; the exploitation of the infrastructures underutilized; and the improvement of services of logistic terminals by ADIF. We have also created and launched the Railway Safety Agency, providing the safety authority with a greater degree of autonomy and independence and creating a specialized body which is a reference for the railway sector and is similar to that of other countries in our environment. I would also like to stress that we have ensured the provision of services of proximity and half distance, both in conventional network and in the high speed and metric width network, which are the services declared as public service obligations, through the signing of a contract between the Mystery of Development and Renfe. I remind you that the Ministry of Development allocates to the financing of services the public resources necessary to ensure its provision; in fact, throughout the legislature we have allocated to railway PSOs more than 2.7 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the law we are debating today wants to consolidate all these improvements and, above all, improve the railway system of the future. Some of you have wondered, through your amendments, how we know that the foundations we have laid at this time are the most appropriate. It is easy to understand since we already have the first results of all these reforms, and these are, to say the least, positive for the whole of Spanish society and promising for the opening up of new lines that are planned in the coming months. Let me give you some data. In 2011, in Spain, there was a huge investment planning in the railway network; that is, we had thousands of kilometres of works in progress and many of them were stopped because there was no funding, as you well remember, ladies and gentlemen. Since 2010, most of the works have been slowed down or stopped. I speak to you, for example, of the T-1 in the Prat, of the works of high speed in Jaén, of the sections of the LAV Albacete-Alicante, of the works of the Barcelona-Figueres line, of the Girona station, of the Mediterranean corridor between Vandellós and Tarragona. There were also very clear examples of works started without the slightest programming, without knowing how they would be finished and put into value, such as, for example, the platform sections that were under construction of the Murcia-Almeria high-speed line, which did not connect or go anywhere. In addition, tenders were foreseen through public-private partnership contracts that were never authorized by the Ministry of Finance at the time. Several sections of the Valencia-Castellón line were tendered, whose contracts were subsequently terminated for their CPP tender but never carried out. There were projects for pharaonic stations, which were less than 200 million, and urban integration societies accumulated a debt of more than 1 billion euros. Power point performances of nearby networks were presented in Madrid and Barcelona, which involved an investment of more than 15 billion euros. Faced with this complex panorama, in the ministry we decided to order and, above all, to deal with the needs with the resources available to us and with the prospects that were to come. What have we done? We have, by the way, put into service, investing, launching the works, awarding works and finishing the works and paying them, the line between Barcelona and the French border, completing this very important connection Madrid-Barcelona-Border, constituting itself as one of the main axes of communication of Spain with Europe; the line between Albacete and Alicante, from which 3.5 million travellers have been benefited; the new railway services of the Atlantic axis, from which more than 427,000 users have benefited; or the virtually completed Seville-Cádiz, not to mention the strong impulse that is being given to the Basque Y. We are making important improvements on conventional railway lines, ladies and gentlemen, such as, for example, on the Palencia-Santander line, where, after talking so much, so much, so much, that we were going to make a high-speed line, we had an infrastructure of 1929. We have carried out important actions for the rail transport of goods, as is the case of the provisional access in width UIC of the port of Barcelona, where, as you know, we are about to start what will be the definitive access in width international, or the branch of access to the port of Alicante, or the development of the plan of stations, in which they took more than twenty years without having invested a euro in them -400 million for improvements in more than two hundred stations -. Many of these performances have ended, such as Pamplona, Almería, Sabadell, Bellavista, Meco in Madrid and Cataroja; fifty-one are already running and the rest have planned projects and are for recruitment. We have put in place a close-up plan that exceeds 1.5 billion euros, but with works under way. And we continue to work, as you know, to put in service as soon as possible the variant of Pajares; the Valladolid-Palencia-Leon line; the Venta de Baños-Burgos section; the arrival of high speed to Granada; the Monforte del Cid-Murcia section; the Murcia-Almería axis; the high speed line to Extremadura; the connection of high speed to Navarre; the important And Basque section, to which more than 3,000 million have been allocated; the Madrid-Galicia high speed line; the Mediterranean corridor; the electrification of the Medina del Campo-Salamanca section, or with the connection, to put some important examples, in wide UIC between Atocha and Chamartin. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Renfe, we have a multitude of rail services, especially high-speed services, which in some cases did not reach 35%. Thousands of Spaniards had never boarded a high-speed train because they could not afford it. As regards the economic aspects, there was a significant amount of debt arising from the 2006-2010 contract-programme, amounting to 906 million; the transfer to Catalonia of the services of proximity and half distance was pending regularization; there was an excess of private participating companies, more than nineteen, in which Renfe participated. Ladies and gentlemen, Renfe's total debt exceeded 5.3 billion, 3,000 more than in 2004. I remind you that between 2005 and 2011, in the legislatures of the socialist government, Renfe invested in numerous participating societies, exactly in nineteen. And I'd rather not talk about buying those trains that had no lanes to go to or about buying locomotives for goods that haven't been used. Faced with this situation, we have worked hard to reverse it. We have improved Renfe's trade and tariff policy, making the railway more affordable and democratizing - if I may - access to the most modern and quality services of the entire company's offer. We have launched new routes and services: the high-speed service to Figueres and Madrid-Alicante; the Alvia and Avant services in Galicia and Valencia; the new international services Spain-France and the Celtic train Vigo-Oporto; the Atlantic axis and the Seville-Cádiz. As a result, last year we had 465 million travellers. The behavior of high speed and long distance was especially positive, with almost 30 million travellers, 16% more than in 2013, and in this year 2015 the upward trend continues. In the cumulative of the first five months of the year, the increase in the number of commercial passengers was 8.2% compared to 2014 and 31.9% compared to 2011. The Atlantic axis has been used by 427,000 users who have already benefited from these new rail services, many of which, by the way, are close. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the fact that 15% of travellers who today use high speed in Spain had never boarded those more modern trains and those 21st-century tracks before. As regards freight traffic, 2014 reached 21.3 million tonnes transported, with a significant increase over previous years: 10.3 % more than in 2013, 24.7 % more than in 2012 and 4 million more than in 2011. There is a long way to go, but I must stress that the ferry traffic that, as you know, enters and leaves the ports, has been located in 2014 at 13,4 million tons, and that it is a fundamental traffic that we want to enhance as a gateway to our ports, as a center of treatment and as a distribution of intercontinental goods to all Europe and to all the world. I hope I have not extended too much to explain not only what I have done, but also what I have achieved so far. All this data that I have offered you is necessary to understand the extent to which the sector is being transformed. That is only possible, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to more than 30,000 professionals, who, as you know, provide their services in the Spanish railway sector and to more than 400,000 indirect jobs that the railway sector provides not only to the economy, but also to the social fabric of our country. I would now like to go into detail with regard to the main developments contained in the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as railway infrastructure is concerned, strict planning is required, with an efficiency-based strategy, sustainable financing of the system and from an intermodal perspective. Three investment planning and programming instruments are established. Firstly, the indicative strategy, the preparation and publication of which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Development. It is an infrastructure planning tool within a time frame of never less than five years. Secondly, a programme of activity, the preparation and publication of which is the responsibility of infrastructure managers, renewable annually and which must be adapted to the indicative strategy. This programme of activity must reflect the forecast of the actions to be carried out and an indicative forecast of their fees for the next five years. Thirdly, an ADIF/ADIF-High Speed-Ministry of Development agreement setting out the objectives to be achieved by the ADIF and the economic contributions of the State. I must also stress that the law includes a new system of fees, focused on the objective of stimulating the growth of rail traffic, maximizing the use of excellent Spanish railway infrastructure and at the same time guaranteeing the revenues of infrastructure managers. This new system removes barriers to entry and barriers, e.g. removes the access fee, which is a fee that is paid once a year for each railway undertaking and gives the right to use the network. The elimination of this canon facilitates the entry into the market of new operators and avoids favouring, as you know, a few. On the other hand, bonuses are provided which will encourage the incorporation of new rail services and thus increase the use of the rail network, for example at lower hours of use. Such bonuses already exist in both airport and port charges, but they did not exist in the rail sector and will assume that the citizen will be able to have more rail services. With regard to the transport of goods, the law includes important developments that improve the competitiveness of the sector. In this way, first of all, liberalising measures for services provided at public railway terminals are included, which will lead to a reduction in costs for operators and thus lead to an improvement in competitiveness. Secondly, the conditions of non-discrimination between undertakings using railway terminals are guaranteed by law. Thirdly, new conditions of transparency are imposed for the performance of infrastructure managers in the sense that they have to submit to public hearing the documents that will condition operators' activity, such as the so-called network declaration. Fourthly, the tariff regime and the authorizations necessary to operate at railway terminals are simplified and the role of ports as managers of railway infrastructure within their railway networks is promoted, which will also lead to an improvement in productivity and rail traffic, which, as I have already told you, is fundamental to the system and to our country. In passenger services we establish a permanent improvement in the quality of service. In this sense, this law guarantees the services called PSOs. We guarantee the mobility of the citizens of our country by ensuring by law the financing by the public administrations of all operating deficits; I am referring to our excellent services of proximity and half distance. The Ministry of Development is obliged not only to provide statistical information but also the accounting officer and to ensure the transparency of all accounts. The operator's obligation to keep separate accounts between its various activities, between commercial services and services declared a public service obligation is reinforced, and the obligation for all companies to have an essential victim assistance plan is maintained and the rights of victims of accidents are reflected. We have made a bill that places a great emphasis on security. In fact, it is already in itself - which should not be - a novelty the inclusion in the law of a new specific title dedicated to railway safety, which does not exist in the current law, since all the regulations were established through ministerial orders or royal decrees. All safety regulations are adapted to the creation of the new State Railway Safety Agency, which is independent of infrastructure managers, companies or any other entity. We provide the agency with its own funding mechanisms to strengthen its independence. The law also includes a new sanctioning regime, which provides for a higher degree of sanctions, in order to achieve a more proportional and thus more effective and fairer system. We have strengthened sanctions on passenger rights and security-related aspects, and because of their importance we have brought the sanctioning regime for the transport of dangerous goods to law. With regard to the amendments to the whole presented, I must say that we have analysed them with great interest, as it could not be otherwise, and I have seen the criticisms that you all make of the model proposed by the law; but, if I may say so, ladies and gentlemen, I have remained eager to know what their alternative is, because none of the groups have submitted an alternative text to this law. I will then look at the general aspects of the amendments and those issues that are reiterated in many of them. First of all, I was surprised that some of the amendments indicate that the law has economic objectives and leaves aside others - they say - such as territorial balance, quality in transport, safety, users' rights or environmental respect; and I am surprised that Article 2 of the bill sets out precisely the aims of this law: to ensure a common transport system for all Spaniards, to meet the needs of society with the utmost efficiency and efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, efficiency and efficiency, that proper use of resources, is what all the citizens of our country are asking of us. Being effective means providing the best services, providing the highest quality services, making rail services more accessible to all citizens, promoting the provision of services in safety, as stated by law, or protecting the interests of users by guaranteeing their rights of access to transport services in conditions of quality and safety. But the law not only sets these goals, but also establishes the means to achieve them. Firstly, it introduces mechanisms to ensure sustainable planning, because, if we ensure its sustainability, we secure its future, ensuring, secondly, the provision of services for the mobility of citizens, services of proximity, of medium distance, both in conventional and high-speed networks, and services provided in the network of metric width through the declaration of public service obligation. The Act also concerns the quality of passenger transport services, empowering the Government to establish quality levels and user rights and obliging companies to establish means of compliance. I have also read criticisms of the process of opening up rail passenger services to competition because it is thought to be done abruptly - it is said - and before it is forced. I can tell you that precisely this law enshrines the principles that have guided the process we have begun to be a progressive and orderly process. In this way, we will be able to ensure proper quality and safety management control and will also allow Renfe to prepare for the new competition scenario for exclusively commercial services. We cannot afford to leave something in what we play so much for the last minute, and the best way is to do it in a progressive and orderly way, to do it according to social organizations, as we are doing, ensuring, as the project says, the provision of services, security and management of the sector. And I would like to reiterate that the opening is exclusively in commercial services, and it is not - because this law guarantees it - in the obligations of the public service, that is, in the vicinity, in the middle distance, Renfe, ADIF and ADIF-High Speed are and will continue to be public. Therefore, when one speaks of privatization, one must know that it does not exist. It is not just the word, it is not just the concept: it does not exist; on the contrary, the law guarantees that the obligations of the public service in our country are public and will continue to be public. Also, some of you indicate that this law does not focus on security. For this law where it has precisely focused - and raised it to law rank - is in security. Ladies and gentlemen, it does so by establishing mechanisms and funding necessary for the State Railway Safety Agency to carry out its functions efficiently and effectively through a proportionate and effective sanctioning regime that focuses on safety, enshrining the rights of the victims of railway accidents. And of course the text respects the competences of the autonomous communities to the fullest, and respects them because this is expressly stated by our Council of State. Let me read them textually - abro quotes -: Having examined the content of the preliminary draft consulted in the light of what has been set out by the Constitutional Court, the Council of State considers that it respects the constitutional division of powers and that its forecasts are in line with the interpretation of the block of constitutionality in railway matters made by that one. I close quotes. I do not see a more forceful statement possible. I shall now look at some of the honourable Members' amendments. I have analysed the amendment to the whole of the Plural Left Group and I would like to stress that the project is committed to all modes of transport, but it is committed to medium distance, to closeness. That there are 21st century roads, that there are more modern trains, does not mean that they are exclusive. Today there are people who are using services that are already high speed to get closer to their workplace. Services are not exclusive, they are all in service to citizens. Besides, anyone who heard them would understand that you deny high-speed services. The most obvious proof of its need is the nearly 30 million travellers who registered last year in Renfe's commercial services. Someone who doesn't know the Spanish rail system may ignore the fact that more than 400 million people use near and mid-distance services each year. Can anyone ignore it? Those more than 400 million people prove that they are improving day-to-day PSO services in our country, which we are addressing on both sides - if you want to call it that, because for me it is a single whole - of the railway service. It is also worth reiterating that for each euro paid by the user of the services of proximity and of medium distance in our country the General Budgets of the State put more than another euro, that is, they put more than 50%. In the case of the amendment tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block, I do not agree with its approach by saying that we are on the road to weakening the public railway when the things being done are right to the contrary. On the Atlantic axis, all stations maintain or improve all current stops and the seats are increased by more than 40%. The improvement of these services does not mean an increase in tariffs. Thanks to this, the first day of these services between A Coruña and Vigo were used by 6,200 travellers with a punctuality of one hundred percent and almost also with a hundred percent occupation. That's how it's been set up. There are 427,000 travellers, 427,000 reasons to say that there are more services in Galicia, better services in Galicia, faster and closer. We talk about 7,100 travelers on working days and 9,200 on holiday eves. Another example is the Madrid-Galicia ratio, which has grown by 150% overall between 2011 and 2014. It has been the new daytime services Alvia or Intercity that have achieved this magnificent increase, quadrupling travelers in these three years. Thus these Alvia services constitute the most chosen offer in Galicia in its movements to the south and already account for 87% of the total offer Madrid-Galicia. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Basque Group, I must ask you, with all due respect and appreciation, what your model is. Ours is the model of connecting with the highest quality and most efficiently all the cities in our country where this demand exists. It is not breaking the network of general interest, not just because it would undermine the efficiency of the service, but because it is against the cohesion and vertebration of our country. Moreover, you do not seem to understand that the trend is just the opposite. Since July 2014, for the first time, there is a direct service, for example, Vigo-Oporto without the need to change a driver on the Portuguese border. Since December 2013, we have international services France-Spain, which do not stop at the border because there is a direct service. We have other initiatives such as, for example, the single window for the management of international freight flows on rail corridors 4 and 6, or the cross-acceptance agreements for mobile equipment that we have at the moment with Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Luxembourg or Switzerland. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this to you with all due respect, I defend an integral railway system in my country and I do not defend putting borders within my own country. In the case of the amendment tabled by Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia, contrary to the railway model we propose, and also with all my respect, Your Honor, it is easy to oppose the high-speed network when one lives in a place where all capitals are united by a service of maximum benefits. This service should be provided by all the citizens of our country. And I would also like to say that at the moment, in Spain, in our country, there is, and you know it well, an effort to permanently improve rail services, and also to maintain and improve the service of proximity. For each ticket sold in proximity to an average of 1.34 euros, the State pays 2.12 euros for each of the more than 105 million travellers. We have carried out improvement works in seventy-four stations. We have put in service twelve actions of improvement of infrastructure. We have carried out accessibility improvement actions. Renfe has continued with its accessibility plan, so it has operated on forty-one trains used by neighbours. In March 2014, in collaboration with the Generalitat, we launched the new service of proximity to Girona and Tarragona, which did not exist, and the improvement of the services of proximity to Barcelona. This has resulted in increased frequencies, increased coverage of proximity services. For example, frequencies have increased in the airport-Sants service with a first daily service, in Manresa-Hospitalet with semi-direct trains or between Arenys de Mar or Calella, among others. Certainly, Your Honor, and in that I agree with you, we still have much to improve on. We're giving a boost to proximity in Catalonia. We have bid to implement the ERTMS in the Hospitalet-Mataró stretch, with an investment of 92 million euros, including the maintenance of the facilities. We started the actions to unfold the R-3. We bid the renovation works of the Paseo de Gracia station. We approved the tender for the contract for the installation of a new computer system at the Barcelona traffic control centre with an investment of more than 10 million. In addition, next July, we will start the works of the railway access platform to the T-1 of El Prat airport, 268 million euros that were awarded in 2010 and that, before beginning, stopped. Finally, in the revision of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, I must start by saying that I do not share your motivation in relation to legislative practice. Let us not forget that many of the royal decree-laws mentioned were later processed as bills and debated in the House. Secondly, the preliminary draft law was taken into consideration by the Council of Ministers on 13 March, and its text, dated 16 March, was sent to the report on 17 and 18 March. Where did it go? To all entities and bodies, including trade union and business organizations and entities: the National Council for Land Transport, Goods and Travellers; railway associations, the Association of Railway Companies, the Association of Owners and Operators of Railways; Renfe-operadora, ADIF, State Ports, the SFF-CGT, the federal railway sector of the General Confederation of Labour; the Spanish Union of Trainers and Assistants; the Workers' Commissions, the state railway sector; the Inter-union Railway Union; the UGT-SMC, the federal railway sector; the Transport and Logistics Council; the Spanish Confederation of Business Organizations; all directors-general of transport of the 17 autonomous communities; and railway undertakings licensed for the carriage of passengers and goods. Finally, on 30 March, the report was sent to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which issued it on 29 April. The Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness issued a report on 27 April. The Ministry of Finance and Public Administration also made its considerations in the preparation of the preliminary draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, on 30 April 2015 the Standing Committee of the Council of State delivered its opinion on the preliminary draft law, which makes two observations as essential: articles 3 and 50, which have been dealt with, and a good number of observations, proposals and suggestions of a non-essential nature to different provisions of this law, the majority of which have been reflected in the text. Therefore, prompt and expeditious processing to meet the Government's legislative timetable should never be confused with haste. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has already been working for more than a year, especially for all sectors concerned and related to the rule, and for those advisory bodies whose intervention is mandatory. On the other hand, with regard to the alleged lack of an economic memory, I would like to point out that the normative impact memory reflects in section 3.2 the economic and budgetary impact of the law. It is not the object of the law to establish the amounts of the fees, but to set its general framework and definition. It is reiterated that the amounts of fees should be established by infrastructure managers in accordance with European law, subject to hearing and reporting by the CNMC, and should be approved by law as a fee. In any event, during the work carried out to establish the general framework set out in this legislative text, a series of calculations were carried out in order to ensure that the revenues of ADIF and ADIF-High Speed, as well as the payments of railway operators, were maintained in this chapter in an order of magnitude similar to that of 2014. On the basis of this basic condition, the application of bonuses and additions to the basic modalities is designed to be an incentive to traffic, i.e. that the marginal cost of putting a new train for a railway operator is decreasing, while at the same time entailing higher net revenues for ADIF or for ADIF-High Speed and to achieve a sustainable and efficient operation of the network. With regard to the rates, there is strictly an economic valuation for each of them. By the way, I, who have been in the Bureau of this House and have read during a parliamentary term - before I read the part that corresponded to me as a spokesman or as responsible - all the memories of impact in this House, I think that the Socialist Group when it speaks of memory would have to have memory - if I may say so - because I am not going to do so, because I do not want to overwhelm you, but I could read you the economic memories of some of the rules that have been brought into this House. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after all that has been said, I would ask you to forgive me if I have been thorough and extended too much, but I hope that you do not have much doubt that the aim of this bill is to complete the reforms we have introduced in the Spanish rail system so that citizens can enjoy one of the most modern and quality rail systems in the world. The law will allow the evolution and progressive improvement of the nearest services and at the same time the development of a high-speed network that already places us as one of the most advanced countries in the world in this mode of transport, with greater projection of the future, and, as I told you before, with a very low volume of emissions, respectful of the environment. I do not want to end without begging you that in today's procedure and also in the amendments - I am the first - we are helping to improve the text we have drawn up, with the experience of many professionals who have accumulated it over many years, with the contributions of many of you and with the contributions of the whole sector. I am sure that your interest, like mine, is to improve all services to the citizen - I am sure that I have often failed -, allowing you to shorten distances and offer a quality service. If it also puts us as a producer of the highest railway technology and allows us to continue creating jobs in a sector with a huge future, we will all have contributed to improving the situation in our country and laying the foundations of the economy that we all want for Spain. In short, we believe that the proposed bill makes it possible to establish mechanisms to ensure the sustainability of our rail system, to give priority to railway safety and, finally, to transpose the Recast Directive into our legal system, but the most important thing is to provide high-quality rail transport. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law will boost the growth of the sector, increase its efficiency and use and promote innovation in the sector. The law I present is the framework of our railway sector for the century in which we live and that is why this phase is so important. It is in parliamentary procedure, but it will certainly be very enriched in this House because it will do so with the help of all of you. Seeing a few days ago the data on how high speed has influenced the city of Cordoba, I found that its hotel capacity has grown more than double in recent years. Certainly not everything is because of high speed, but I am sure it has been a key element; high speed, by the way, they use so many people every day of the year. That is why I again offer you my will, the will of the Government to dialogue with all groups. I hope that we will all be able to reach major meeting points to ensure that rail remains a key mode of transport for our country's vertebrate and economic development. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u10	Five amendments to the full refund have been tabled to this draft law, which have been discussed extensively by the Minister, and we are now going to give the groups the opportunity to defend them. We begin with the Joint Group and Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the liberalisation and privatization strategy for the railway sector in Spain began more than ten years ago with Law 39/2003 on the railway sector. As in other public services and enterprises, this Government has maintained the discourse on the lack of profitability of services in which billions of public euros have been invested and which are eventually sold or almost given to investors and private companies who profit from what has been done with everyone's money. The liberalisation of the railway sector is, ladies and gentlemen, the battle horse of most of the amendments to the whole of this bill, including that of the BNG, which for years has been criticising the consolidation of a model that is yet to be demonstrated its benefits and the virtues of which the Minister of Development and the Government as a whole are unconditional fans. The experts of the Technical-Scientific Commission for the Study of Improvements in the Spanish Railway Sector, which the Ministry of Development created after the accident in Angrois in 2013, reflect in their report their doubts about the profitability of the sector once the liberalisation has been completed - it is they, the Technical-Scientific Commission itself and not the BNG, who clearly speak of a possible worsening of the service and the consequent deterioration of the image of the railway - a liberalization in which we could look in the mirror of other countries and see without much attention that it has not had by far the beneficial consequences in which many rulers insisted. See the most striking case, that of England. Moreover, the liberalisation of other services in the Spanish State itself, the case of Post Offices, the air sector and the electricity sector, to put just a few examples, has been detrimental to millions of users who have seen how, at the same time, the quality of the provision of these services has declined to the same extent. We could even talk about the liberalisation of the rail freight service itself, which has not meant that this sector has left where it was, from the tail car and never, rather, from the last percentage of freight traffic in the whole of the European Union. By the way, a situation that we believe is not going to be improved with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to believe that, just as countries such as France or Germany are doing with one of the most powerful rail services in the world, the management, maintenance, creation or renovation of railway infrastructure is a public service that must be guaranteed by public undertakings. We think this based on a very elementary principle and is that the interest of private companies is not the service to the community, but the profit and benefit of its shareholders and for this reason few looks will be given with the closures of lines that are not considered economically profitable or with the concentration on the most productive markets and therefore the abandonment of regional traffics and, of course, with the highest quality in railway safety. In addition, the liberalisation initiated years ago has shown precisely that it has served to weaken the conventional railway and has shifted practically all investments to high speed, just as a prerequisite for the entry of private operators into this market segment. This is seriously harming territories such as the Galician where the role of rail transport in the vertebration and cohesion of the territory has been seriously contemplated, if ever. In short, this bill is the final sprint towards a liberalisation of the rail sector in which, by the way, the Spanish Government is staying alone in Europe, moving unreasonably ahead of the dates set by the European Union and, of course, moving further and further away from the rail model that other European countries, which are truly relevant in this area, continue to maintain. France and Germany strongly resist this liberalisation and compliance with European directives, while they will nevertheless have the opportunity to enter the Spanish sector without any problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG also does not share the absolute prioritisation of high-speed railway lines and the lack of empowerment of conventional networks which promote closer mobility. In the case of Galicia we have seen clearly how the network of connection between its most populated cities has completely subordinated to the connections with the plateau, precisely by the implementation of this model. This has resulted in the practical disappearance of railway services in many intermediate localities, not to mention the abandonment of the city of El Ferrol in the fulfilment of the planning of the Atlantic Axis. This bill does not correct this model. Public service obligations have been reduced and this is implying the reactivation of rail transport in many areas where it has been gradually disappearing. In accordance with public service obligations, 45,000 annual half-distance train services in the State have been phased out in recent years, 172 stations have remained unstopped and 165 others have been left on a daily stop. It is certainly a model that we do not share and which has as its sole objective economic profitability, far above territorial cohesion and social balance. On the other hand, the BNG cannot share the centralist and centralizing vision that continues to be maintained. As in other sectors, on the one hand, there is an unbridled commitment to deliver public services to the private sector and, on the other hand, there is a firm refusal to allow autonomous communities to access the management of their rail services, maintaining their public character in connections within their territories. Nor can we overlook the regulation that the draft law makes of railway safety. We also find it paradoxical, even contradictory, that huge investments are being made in public railway infrastructure, and yet it is acting in a scar when it comes to providing the most advanced means of safety on the railway network. In this particular aspect of railway safety, the minister herself has repeated to the satisfaction that the accident at Angrois - which ended the life of eighty people and which revealed serious deficiencies in railway safety, as demonstrated by the actions that took place a few days after that accident - is the accident that involved a before and after in the area of railway safety. However, minister, less than two years after that tragedy, the Atlantic A Coruña-Vigo Axis is inaugurated and it is done without the installation of the most advanced security system, the ERTMS.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u12	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u13	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that these actions, especially after the announcements that have been made on drums and platters, are not welcome. Mr President, I conclude by saying that we have repeatedly denounced the composition of the Railway Safety Agency, which was launched last April and is chaired and formed by the Ministry of Development and other ministries. We understand that this composition does not guarantee the security of its decisions and does not contribute to the credibility of a body that should have absolute independence. Madam Minister, for these and other reasons I do not have time to put forward, we have tabled an amendment to the whole for which we call for the support of the various groups. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Hernández. Within the Joint Group, Mr Tardà has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I believe that much of the indignation of Catalan citizenship, which was later filled with what we have called a sovereignist process or movement, broke out in 2010 when, tired of the collapse of the service of neighbourhoods and the aggravation that represented the maintenance of the radial policy of Madrid km 0, while inverted at high speed, it went out on the street. For the first time, hundreds of thousands of people went out to the streets in the face of a situation caused by a poor functioning of an infrastructure, which was absolutely novel in recent history in our State. After the years, everything remains the same. And if saying the same is exaggerated, at least it is somewhat similar. Incidences continue to be very common in the vicinity. Note that even a newspaper, Ara, has opened a website so that, daily, citizens can audit the incidences. This is inconceivable anywhere else in Europe. And with regard to investments, when the transfer of closeness was carried out, 4 billion were committed in the government of Rodriguez Zapatero; after so long a tenth part has been executed, and two years ago you committed an investment of 400 million. He's been talking about thirty-six stations. Maybe I'm the one who's wrong, but I'd like to know what they are, honestly. In Manresa you announced two years ago that the reform of the station was going to be carried out; they committed 6 million euros and I understand that absolutely nothing has been started. This situation of lack of investment leads us to a lack of security; moreover, it prevents more frequency of transit, with which less possibility of being able to accommodate more citizens who use the service of proximity, not to mention other deficits: for example, on the Barcelona-Puigcerdà line the trains circulate at the speed of the nineteenth century; there are great delays in the works at the station of La Sagrera, etc. To all this must be added the lack of investment in goods and an insistence - politically ill in my opinion - in the central corridor to the extent that they are demarcating without any complex of the Mediterranean corridor. With this they not only punish the Catalan economy - perhaps even here there is a previous political position - but they punish the economy of the Valencia Country, punish the Andalusian economy and punish the economy of the whole Mediterranean arc. Not only are we talking about situations that collapse economic life, but they also have environmental damage to the extent that they cause road collapses. In fact, we owe nothing to ADIF or Renfe; on the contrary, we are victims of ADIF and Renfe, which are protected by Spanish governments. Now you are presenting us with a bill to modernise the railway system, but I ask you: how does this law resolve the situation that is daily suffering in the vicinity of Catalonia? How does this law solve the damage that it represents for the Catalan economy not having a railway network in line with its productive potential? If in forty years the State has only made a major investment in nearby areas - which was the transformation of the Vallès freight line into a passenger line - and has renounced its investment obligations, with its liberalization project I wonder how it expects companies that seek the strict economic interest and not the general interest to invest in the maintenance and improvement of the service. You will condemn the disappearance to conventional lines that in the eyes of capitalism are not profitable. Unless there's a cat locked up. Unless the Florentines and all the people on the Bernabeu stage are behind and there's a covert operation here in the medium term. I repeat that society has been a victim of the megalomaniac policies applied to the high-speed rail system. We are talking about 24 billion ADIF debt and more than 5 billion Renfe debt. By the way, regarding Renfe's deficit, Workers' Commissions rightly argue that much of the lack of functionality is due to the lack of sufficient staffing. In short, the law that you are presenting to us today, rather than liberalizing, should deal with the tragic situation that is being faced. However, you are presenting a draft law - I repeat - without laying down the foundations on which the liberalisation of the rail market in the Spanish State hinges, which is why I insist that there is a cat locked up here. The Council of State itself has already made it clear that these foundations on which liberalization is based do not exist. Furthermore, they present it urgently, at high speed - I am finishing, Mr President - before the parliamentary report of the subcommittee was issued, before being able to contrast and evaluate the considerations to be made by the sectors concerned and going ahead - I insist on the cat closed - with the deadlines set by the European directive, even before knowing how the implementing legislation currently being processed in Brussels should be structured. Why have Greece, Portugal, the Netherlands, Ireland and Austria expressed their opposition to the full application of the legislation? Why do France and Germany keep up with expectations? Why are you in such a hurry? Why should we do this right now at the door of the dissolution of this Parliament? Because there's a cat locked up. This is our theory. Here behind there are large groups of capital who try the following - as always, everything is invented -: they try to keep the profits, privatize the profits so that the people pay the deficits. I remind you of the billions of debts of ADIF and Renfe. By the way, with this debt...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u16	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u17	I thank you for your indulgence once again. ... the fees will be high, so I wonder which operators will be interested in intervening; not those from outside: friends, Florentines.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u18	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví finally intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. The legislature ends and there is little progress on the Gandía-Oliva-Denia line, which should have been one of those lines of general interest to which the project alludes, a train that closed forty years ago, in 1974 - like many others over the last decades - and which served to vertebrate the Valencian territory along the coast, where people are and where tourism is. With this law lines like this will remain closed, because it has no vocation of public service or has very little, rather it has vocation of privatization service. That's right, it takes a biased view of rail transport. [[The lady]] There is much talk of costs, of economic profitability and, above all, of private operators, but there is no talk - or is done in a scar - of the vertebration of the territory, of close mobility, of the participation of the autonomous communities in decision-making or of security. A month after the 2nd anniversary of the Santiago accident and with the memory of the victims of the metro of Valencia always present - by the way, we announce that in today's investiture session the new President of Valencia has said that the first thing that the new government will do will be to receive his relatives and ask for forgiveness, something that for many years the PP government did not do - the chapter of railway safety proposed by this law seems to us insufficient. Firstly, because when risk control is cited, it is not specified that risks can be technical, human and organisational. Secondly, because when it comes to training, it does not specify which training and seems to exclude those who make safety decisions. Thirdly, because the alleged independence of bodies is not such, since both the Commission for the Investigation of Rail Accidents and the State Agency for Rail Safety appoints and revokes charges. Furthermore, believe me, independence is necessary and must be a democratic guarantee. Fourthly, because there continues to be an emphasis on accountability for incidents to workers without progressing in the development of safety management systems or in accident investigation methodologies that include analysis of human errors and organizational failures with aspects in mind. In this country there are no penalties for non-compliance with ADIF or Renfe and the findings of the commission of inquiry are not even mandatory. Finally, Minister, we surely owe citizens a giant step by recognizing mistakes when they are evidenced and proposing a courageous and future law, because those who forget their mistakes are doomed to repeat them. I therefore sincerely hope that this will for dialogue expressed by the Minister will be true and this law will change considerably during the period of the amendment procedure. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u20	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mrs Sánchez Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear Minister, your speech today has inevitably struck me as a farewell, and perhaps that is why, at the time of your presentation, you have devoted a small part to the introduction of the bill and an important part to taking stock of your management at the head of the ministry and to giving us an early reply, without giving us the opportunity to present our amendments in advance. Perhaps that is why some doubts have arisen with regard to ours, which I will try to clarify. Madam Minister, we share with you the goodness of the railway. As you have heard us say on numerous occasions, the future travels by train. That is precisely why we are so insistent on the Basque Y, in particular the high speed and connection with Europe and the rest of the state. And because we believe it is terribly relevant, we cannot understand what they have been doing and what they have been waiting for to bring this law, doing it at the end of the legislature, in the discounted minutes, without giving us time for debate and reflection. I was wondering about our model, minister. You know him very well. He knows perfectly well that we are defending an integral model of railways, not only for the state, but for Europe. We believe that it is very relevant because of this general premise that I have previously explained to you that the future travels by train, and that is why we believe that it can also be achieved from respect for the provisions of the Constitution and the autonomy statutes. And, minister, do not mix me the connection Portugal-Spain with that which refers to this initiative and our amendment of totality, from the absolute respect to the competences that the State has in this matter, which are essentially the services of proximity and Intercity. I would like you to explain to me what that has to do with what you have referred to with the Santurtzi-Abando line, with the Muskiz-Barakaldo line, with the Bilbao Mercancias-Santurtzi line, with the Ariz-Basurto-Hospital line, with the Lutxana-Barakaldo-Irauregi line. It has nothing to do with it. In any case, I will stick to the text of the initiative that we have formulated today. First of all, Madam Minister, I would like to say that this trip did not require so many saddlebags. The entity of changes proposed by this Railway Sector Bill does not justify the drafting of a new Act, because it largely reproduces the 2003 Act; we could have shortened it by amending the previous Act. Frankly, we expected more and, after the late announcement you made at the press conference in the middle of the election campaign, we trusted that the project would contain brighter measures in those hot minutes of this legislature. But we welcome the fact that, in the end, they have finally assumed the need to work in terms of planning, prioritization, socio-economic profitability and efficiency, after being, for the duration of this session, machaconically insisting on this issue. I would also like to say, Minister, that this bill has a deeply centralized varnish and, in addition, it reproduces criteria to which the Constitutional Court itself has formulated very important objections, very harsh criticisms and various nuances, especially on matters relating to the division of powers. In this regard, and in relation to the powers over railways, article 149.1.21.a of the Constitution provides that the State has jurisdiction over railways and land transport that pass through the territory of more than one autonomous community, while in turn 148.1.5.a states that the autonomous communities may assume jurisdiction when the railway route is fully developed in the territory of the autonomous community. For its part, I remind you that Article 10.32 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country establishes as exclusive competence in the field of railways - of course without prejudice to Article 149.1.20a of the Constitution - while Article 12.9 provides that the Autonomous Community has competence to implement the legislation of the State in the management of the transport of goods and passengers having their origin and destination within the territory of the Autonomous Community, even though they deal with the infrastructures of state ownership referred to in paragraph 21 of paragraph 1 of 149 of the Constitution, without prejudice to the direct execution reserved by the State. I've quoted literally. Minister, the Constitutional Court's very important judgment 245/2012 recalls that the distribution of powers in this area is based on two fundamental axes: territorial and general interest. Although the former is not the only one, it is fundamental or essential, and this means that although it is necessary to complete this competitive title with those of public works or those of general interest, the territorial criterion remains the primary one. That is why it is not possible to distort it with other State titles, so following the doctrine of the Constitutional Court should be applied only as an exception, and that is not what is happening. Therefore, as I said to you, the territorial criterion cannot be replaced by that of general interest when it comes to the application of the division of powers. In fact, there are numerous rulings before this ruling of the Constitutional Court that come to endorse this doctrine, thus understanding this matter subject - and I quote literally - to a double canon successively: that of territoriality and that of general interest, in the understanding that the criterion of general interest complements and modulates the purely territorial, but without excluding it substantially, and closes quotes. The State is therefore not competent to act in the internal sphere of the autonomous communities, and any intervention in the same will have to be based on other enabling titles expressly provided for in the Spanish Constitution. Precisely in the manifestly abusive intention to use the concept of general interest, the main cause of this amendment is the formulation of the present amendment of the whole for its return to the Government of the draft law. Let's talk about rail transport. With regard to competences in this field, the Constitutional Court's doctrine has warned that transport is a matter with its own and distinguishable entity of infrastructure, and that competition over transport does not in principle attract that relating to infrastructure. Totally in agreement, as these are public functions differentiated for the purposes of the distribution of competences between the State and the autonomous communities. The main feature in the field of land transport of the system of competition distribution is the distinction between the regulatory powers and the enforcement powers of State legislation, if the object of the autonomous enforcement competition is, in principle, broader than that of exclusive autonomous competition in intra-Community transport, since in the first, as we said before, it refers to rail transport whose origin and destination are within the autonomous community, regardless of whether the autonomous territory is at some point exceeded in its course, the second is confined to transport which runs entirely throughout the territory of the autonomous community, regardless of who is responsible for the ownership of the infrastructure and the reservation of direct action by the State. I am sorry to make such an intervention, but when I stand up for political criteria, I am defeated, so I have preferred to make a more legal intervention. I'm sorry if you're feeling a little heavy. He was told that, in this regard, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, in its famous judgment 245/2012, has pointed out that if rail transport services operate entirely by an autonomous community, the entire management of such rail transport must be the responsibility of that autonomous community, which has full freedom to organise the management and financing of rail transport services of public interest, taking into account the importance of the territorial criterion in the distribution of competences. As regards the other competing competition titles, it should be pointed out that the strategic nature of transport in general and rail in particular is indeed unquestionable, both in terms of infrastructure and passenger transport service, and that this has an undoubted economic dimension which can justify the fact that other competition titles also come into play, something we do not deny. Notwithstanding the content of paragraphs 13 and 14 of Article 149(1) of the Constitution relating to the bases for coordinating the planning of economic activity in general and of public finances, they must be clearly defined. It is not possible to create public property benefits for the use of railway infrastructure or other concepts, and of any measure affecting the revenue and expenditure of the State, without clearly stating the concepts by which it is carried out. I am not going to tell you again in this House of the variety of manifestations and twisted uses that the Government has given, and that I suspect that in the time remaining it intends to continue to give the title of competence of article 149.1 of the Constitution, but there is abundant constitutional jurisprudence that comes to say that the invocation of such competence cannot lead to the emptying of autonomous competences, which in no case can remain empty of content due to state intervention. I think it is meridianly clear and we have defended it on repeated occasions. And as I said, it is absolutely necessary, if you make use of that title, that you concretely make the precepts, chapters or titles to which each of the subjects refers, and you in this law do not do so, make a generic reference. And this determination is absolutely necessary for a clear reason: for requirements of legal certainty that affect the very basis of the draft law, which must be based on the correct identification of the competences that the State has to approve it. In addition, Minister, it must not be forgotten that in a composite State such as the Spanish State, institutional loyalty obliges us to give priority to scrupulous respect for the order of competences, and that this not only means that each territorial level must properly base its competence, but also that it must facilitate the exercise of those of others, even more so when ours must be exercised within the framework of their own. I believe that, in the light of the above considerations, first of all, we should draw attention to the definition of the railway network of general interest in Article 4 of the draft law, which is identical to that of Article 4 of the existing Railway Sector Act, although with three more paragraphs, 4 and 5 and 6, which deal with the catalogue of railway infrastructures of the network of general interest to be approved by the Ministry of Development, and in whose elaboration the relevant autonomous communities must be heard, since it involves the putting into service of new infrastructures by means of an automatic inclusion system - I repeat, automatic - in the aforementioned catalogue. In view of the above we can state that there is no relevant variation in this issue, at least of the criteria used in the precept to consider it as an infrastructure of general interest, and they continue to be the same as in the Railway Sector Act. They therefore deserve the same judgment as these. In my opinion, it is a clear climax, because it does not define the precise limits or draw a clear line on the reality to which they refer, while circumventing, which ignores the rulings of the Constitutional Court on the distribution of competences in railway matters to which I have previously referred. These are precisely the reasons that have led to the litigation that the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration is currently holding with the Ministry of Development, since the discussion lies in what are those sections and lines that should be taken into account in the context of our Euskadi Autonomous Community. And the worst part of this story is that it is a problem that could have been solved in this bill if it had defined the catalogue of what is considered to be the general interest in another way, that is, if it had defined it in a clearer way and respecting the doctrine that the Constitutional Court has been developing in this area. Moreover, as I said to you, the provision in the new paragraph 5 that the commissioning of new infrastructures implies the automatic inclusion in the catalogue constitutes a very clear prejudice to the current legislation, to the Railway Sector Act, because, although in both the Railway Sector Act and the draft law, it is necessary that, in order to agree on its inclusion in the Railway Network of general interest of new infrastructures, there are reasons of general interest, this draft law also provides that all new infrastructures that are put into service should be included in the catalogue automatically. With what in the end, where is the criterion of territoriality? Where are the forecasts of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country? Where are the forecasts of the constitutional bloc? Nowhere. In reality this should mean that the General Administration of the State can only build and manage sections or lines of networks that actually have the characteristics of the Network of General Interest...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u22	Mrs. Sánchez Robles, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u23	President, I'm finishing up. ... and that they will be part of it, and not the other way around, i.e. that all infrastructures which are owned or built by the General Administration of the State must have that consideration, regardless of whether or not they meet the corresponding requirements, as I said to them. In fact, I see that the ministerial position has not changed, despite the harsh criticism it has repeatedly received of its approach from the Constitutional Court. In the light of the above, we believe that the reasons for the allegations made in the draft catalogue by the Basque Government still exist, and we believe that this draft law should also formulate an alternative definitional wording, the interpretation of which does not give rise to any doubt. There are many more issues that we could talk about, just as much of a smaller entity for us, which justify this refund amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u24	Mrs. Sánchez Robles, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u25	I'm done. Madam Minister, as I suppose the amendments in their entirety will not go forward, I trust that in the course of dealing with the partial amendments we will be able to reach agreements and agreements which will make it possible to clarify all these matters which are simply resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez Robles. For the Plural Left, to defend your amendment, Mrs De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u27	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the first thing I would have to explain, and you have not done so, is how, just three months before the end of the parliamentary term, the Government brings us a new draft law on the railway sector that repeals the previous one, arguing the need to incorporate into the Spanish legal system the rules of Directive 2012/34 of the European Union, because, although it is true - it is said in the text and in the reports - that it was to be transposed before 16 June 2015, it is part of the fourth railway package, which together with other regulations and directives has already been approved at first reading by the European Parliament, and provides for substantial amendments to the directive that is now being transposed, with the Government's hurry to complete the liberalisation process and the entry of private capital into our country's railway sector before the polls can prevent it. Such has been the haste that the Council of State itself already warns in its report that this draft law - before the draft - should not have been adopted by the Council of Ministers, given the urgency and speed of the deadlines for raising the mandatory reports essential in order to be able to form an adequate judgment of the suitability and opportunity that, in the public interest, this law must have. The memory of the normative analysis lacks an economic report and an economic memory, despite what the minister has said - because this is what the Council of State says -, avoiding intentionally that we can make an assessment as to the impact in terms of economic profitability on the public coffers of such an operation, where the interests of private capital can endanger the public interests, as has already been demonstrated in other processes of liberalisation of the sector carried out in other countries of the Union, such as Britain, set out here by other interveners. This already, Minister, is of sufficient gravity to justify the return of this bill to the Government. But, as I said earlier, there are other major reasons that have to do with the initial approval in the European Parliament of the fourth railway package and the hasty implementation of it that the government has been developing throughout the legislature, at the expense of decree and behind the back of the citizens, in order to meet the unique and exclusively demands of business sectors eager to do business with our country's rail transport. Thus in July 2013 the tourist transport of travellers was liberalized and in 2014 the rest of the passenger transport. This law is now intended to completely shield the entry of private capital for the operation of our railway transport infrastructure, both in goods and in travellers, including public service obligations. Here too, Minister, you should explain why Spain is moving ahead with the liberalisation processes set out in this directive, as amended in the fourth railway package, which gives the deadline until 2019 for opening up the rail passenger market, and until 2023 for the tendering of contracts for the public service obligation, recognizing further that the liberalisation process of the sector must be carried out with the necessary and long-term precautions. We should also be told whether you really believe that our country's strategic interests in rail transport are being met when 15 of the 28 Member States refuse to open up their trains to competition, and understand that in order for the service to be provided under adequate quality and safety conditions, one operator is needed in a monopolistic way, that is, that they would have to change public monopoly by another private, being something they are not willing to do. Nor is the National Competition Commission ready. At the European meeting last March - Minister, you will know - the countries of the Union with small operators, such as Luxembourg, made their reservations about the liberalisation and possible interference that the French or German railway companies could suffer, stating also that opening up competition would lead to bankruptcy for the fourth employer in their country. What do you think you deserve this, Minister? What would you have to tell us about this? The implementation of this directive and the fourth railway package has been denied, as I said before, 15 of the 28 Member States, such as Belgium or the Netherlands, which, being small countries, such as Luxembourg, have a very powerful railway operator. All countries agree that the United Kingdom model, after thirty years of liberalisation, has led to an economic disaster for the State and an increase in prices for passengers, putting security at serious risk, and this - they say - should serve as an example of what no one wants to do. No one except you, Minister; no one except Mrs Pastor and the Government. The major European operators - the German and the French - do not raise or discuss the issue of liberalisation until at least 2019. While Europe does not require the separation of transport companies except at the accounting level, here the transport operator, Renfe, has been divided into four companies, and the infrastructure, ADIF, into two companies. The approved text of the fourth railway package makes it clear that a business holding can be maintained, it recommends, in order to ensure consistency between the operator and the infrastructure. That is, quite the opposite of what the Government is doing. The law provides - now specifically to the law - for the regulation of line catalogues and sections of the railway network of general interest, and the procedures for the inclusion and exclusion of infrastructures in the railway network of general interest. Article 4 sets out which lines can be included or excluded from that railway network according to the catalogue, and Article 11 talks about the possibility of closing lines and sections provided that they are not economically and socially profitable. These terms are not defined in the law and the arbitrariness of the economic interests of the operators. This is also said by the Council of State, but it is obvious that the parameters of when a line is not economically and socially profitable are not set. Autonomous communities and municipalities here could bear the cost of maintaining the line or that stretch that Fomento intends to eliminate because it does not believe it is profitable enough. At that time, when the autonomous communities and the municipalities become cost-effective, the general interest that had been lost, according to Fomento, is automatically recovered, being relegated to purely economic interests and to the benefits expected by the operating companies, leaving the burden of costs to the autonomous communities and municipalities, but endangering the territorial balance of rail transport. This law weakens the right to transport citizens through the obligation of public service, because the entry of free competition and the search for greater benefit will make companies bid to stay the most profitable lines and schedules. It is the first course of neoliberal politics, Mrs Pastor, which you know from memory. What's going to happen to the least profitable? They will end up closing and there will be no guarantee or alternative - because this law does not properly mark it - to provide transportation to many people who will remain incommunicado. The maintenance of railway equipment is also fully privatized, and the quality and safety of such equipment is not sufficiently ensured by law, putting it in jeopardy. As far as safety is concerned, it has already been said here that the powers and composition of the State Railway Safety Agency are not adequately defined. With regard to the modification and reduction of the fee, we believe that it has been done on the basis of the report of the National Competition Market Commission when it ensures that if the demand increases, even if the fee falls, the revenues for ADIF will rise. You have to make cash, that is clear, especially if we take into account that the high-speed bet against a more social and efficient train has led us to have ADIF a deficit of 15 billion euros, which accounts for 1.5% of the total public deficit in Spain. But it is not even demonstrated by this law that the collection of these new fees will lighten the debt, when in addition - I also refer to the Council of State - there is no such economic report as to justify it. As far as the maintenance and job creation in the sector is concerned, I will confine myself to repeating - because we fully share it, and you, Minister, have also heard the allegations of public information - the request made by the representatives of the workers in the sector when they are betting on a public and social railway model, which is incompatible if it is to the benefit of private companies, which you are favouring with this law. They also make it clear that the Government's liberalizing policies will lead to job losses and the precariousness of existing jobs. In short - and I conclude, Madam President - from La Izquierda Plural we believe that it would be more profitable at social and economic level to look for strategies to strengthen public railway companies, to bet on a social train, the train that most people use to guarantee the right to mobility, to guarantee the right of access to goods and services that everyone has. That is why we have plenty of reason to ask the government to stop this liberalisation process, to deal with what they are saying in Europe, and to comply with the deadlines of the fourth European railway package. We ask you to withdraw this bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u28	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gordo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have been listening carefully and I have to tell you that you have not surprised me; of the forty minutes you have used, you have used twenty in bus, propaganda and a speech that allows me to qualify as a populist, because you are visiting the territory, I know, but the others also, and I have to tell you that any resemblance to the reality of your description of infrastructures is mere coincidence. I'm sorry to tell you this, but it's reality. Look, the Mediterranean corridor, except for the width of the UIC entrance to the port of Barcelona, the rest is a disaster; talk to those responsible for logistics platforms, ports, because you there have an important unresolved problem. But the same happens to us with the promises of the Basque Y and the rest of the runners. And what about roads, if 50% of what you should invest has been invested in maintenance, you are in 900 million, with a serious problem of safety and reliability of road safety. And in airports, where they have advanced a little bit, it is a consequence of the inheritance received, of the investments of the socialist government, say it, and of the conditions of financing, with an incomplete pseudoprivatization that have not made progress. [[Laughter]] And the same is true of ports: they are real islands where nothing has progressed in connectivity. This is the situation. But in addition, debt has grown by 32% in ADIF, from 16,000 to 18 billion, with a tendency to reach 24,000. The same happens in Renfe and the same happens in other areas. Minister, don't sell us smoke, don't sell smoke. Moreover, I invite you, before all those interpellations that we have repeatedly presented at this time, to come and inform us in detail of each of the proceedings. You know that in the last year you have only appeared once to talk about operational security, an exclusively technical issue, where you also used the replica shift, when this spokesman could not answer, to talk about AENA. I invite you, come to Parliament, come to the Commission now that the parliamentary term is over, and come to two or three sessions to inform us of each and every point we have on the political agenda for infrastructure right now. I come here to talk about the law, you haven't talked about the law, but I come here to talk about the bill. I'm going to go to the point, straight to the point: withdraw the bill. It is a bill inconsistent, ill-designed, disrespectful with the established procedure, it is a bill that generates legal uncertainty, and I do not say so, but says the Council of State; and at the same time from the material point of view it does not respond to the great challenges that the sector is currently facing. It also has a strong ideological burden. That is why I ask you to withdraw the bill, as Pedro Sánchez asked the President of the Government; it is a bill that you are going to impose on us with your absolute majority, but you are not going to manage because you are going to lose the elections. I am going to refer to some general aspects in order to then enter into nuclear issues of what this project should be. You are dealing with this bill under the pretext of transposing the Single Railway Area Directive, the Recast Directive, a 2012 directive that you have failed to comply with in various areas, such as the publication of the indicative strategy, which should have been on 16 December 2013, or the notification of cross-border agreements on 16 June 2013. What they have done has been not to transfer important agreements or to do so in part. In this draft law, in relation to which it has stated that it wants to have a vocation of permanence in time - we too, logically - the regulation of rail and road passenger service is not included - it is done in a very partial way - nor that of goods. However, they transfer such issues as the allocation to private companies of the management of the Spanish rail network - it cannot be understood - or the liberalisation of inland rail passenger transport. The Government has deliberately ignored the views and reports of constitutional bodies in this bill, such as the Court of Auditors and the Council of State, and has carried out a very hasty process. I will read expressly what the Council of State apostates. It says: The hearing to the organizations and the reports collected have been so prompt and brief that most of the requested ones have not been issued or have been issued late. I am not saying this, but the Council of State. I remind you, Minister, that the quality of the democratic system is measured by respect for the institutions that form and form it, but also by respect for the procedures for drawing up the rules. My party, the PSOE, is always going to demand that the Government strictly observe the rules and recognize the importance of drafting, because the drafting procedure is a clear guarantee that the rule is timely and correct and also provides a pluralistic vision, conditions that are not given in this bill. The opinion of the Council of State makes this clear, it is an amendment in its entirety. A while ago you made reference from this rostrum to the fact that there is an economic memory and that is not the case. It is said by the Council of State, which determines - I read -: The lack of any economic study of what the new regulation entails and its impact on the economy... And he goes on to say:... and it is quite inadequate to examine the incidence of parafiscal figures. The legal requirement that the rule be accompanied by an economic memory cannot be considered fulfilled. The Council of State says so. It will be with me that, given the importance of this draft because of its economic magnitude, it is necessary to refer to sustainability and the draft law does not refer to it either, a preliminary draft which, as the Council of State explains, did not mature into the Council of Ministers and highlights the legal quality of it. It transposes the directive in a partial, biased and partisan way, incorporates new and ambiguous terms lacking in concrete legal uncertainty and contains excessive regulatory development in some rules and in which they have no legal reservation. Minister, if I were in your place I would feel shame, I tell you with all respect, democratic shame. [[Applauds]] It is not possible to bring a bill exclusively for having in the curriculum the processing of a law, a bill that we want to be born with continuity and permanence in time, but its inconsistency will make it last very little. We will repeal it when we rule, which will be in the next legislature. So far I have referred to the formal aspects. You have missed a magnificent opportunity to move a bill that responds to the great challenges of the sector with calmness, with consensus with the various political forces. We are faced with a sector that requires a huge amount of resources to invest in strategic infrastructure and it is necessary to provide legal certainty to investors. Well, with this bill they don't. We already have enough experience, an experience accumulated in the construction and operation of high-speed lines, we know the economic results, and this experience should contribute to a necessary and correct transposition of the directive, which has not been done, and at the same time to the Government having clear strategic aspects. This has been impossible, first of all by improvisation. You have referred here to the fact that you have been working on this bill for a year. I admit your words, but you know that in the ministry this work has been done in a very hasty way, with lack of dialogue. He has also referred to dialogue, but one thing is to enunciate dialogue and another is to crystallize dialogue by gathering the various contributions. And at the same time, very influenced by ideological decisions. This project certainly frustrates a country objective, which is important not only for the State, but also for the strategic sector. There are five crucial aspects. Planning. He barely mentions it. The bill does not consider planning, while the directive gives it a supine importance. Of course. For this project, infrastructure is an end in itself, but demand studies are not considered to be the cornerstone of any planning because, if not, what is happening to us will continue to happen to us: underutilised installed capacity and costs that can become unsustainable. There has been no participation. And what about sustainability? The aims and objectives of the law do not include sustainability and sustainability is also a cornerstone. The Government of the People's Party in recent years has not provided enough funding, the debt is being shot at us, almost 19 billion with a trend of 24,000, with sales of assets at the worst time and concessions such as parking lots and fiber optics, which is the most profitable. [[Mr. Ayala Sánchez makes negative gestures]] Yeah, it's the most profitable thing and you're giving it away without responsibility. And with the creation of a high-speed ADIF that has only contributed to getting worse! Here is the Court of Auditors' report where it says that the funds received at the moment do not correspond to the depreciation or scarce financing of the conventional system, which puts security and reliability at risk, as I said earlier. The current fees are insufficient to cover costs and you raise fees that also lower the recovery threshold, so we are going to go to a much larger deficit. The Recast directive reflects the need to project costs into the fees, and what you incorporate is a recommendation, which will logically lead to insufficiency. In short, in the area of sustainability there is a lack of a mature chapter, a specific chapter that transposes the directive and gives it consistency. It's a big deal, let me tell you, what they've done about sustainability. Another point is that of incentives and promotion of the railway sector. They're just passing through the dots, too. They ignore the philosophy of the directive, which is the increase and balance of modern transport. Today we are in Spain in a 3% share of rail freight transport, while the European average is 10% and countries like Germany reach 20%. It is impossible to improve competitiveness. You haven't given him priority. And liberalization has already been discussed enough, a barbarity that will lead us to cover all Spaniards an unripe whim because in the end we will pay through General State Budgets an initiative that is immature. Finally, they have also made reductions in rights and I would like to raise a matter of grave concern to you: the privatization of the functions of the railway infrastructure manager, as set out in Articles 19.4 and 20. It doesn't obey any model. What you want to do is hack the network to open the doors to privatization to private companies. This is reflected, in an indefinite manner, in Annex 1 of the Act, which deals with railway infrastructure managers, with the aggravating factor that no requirement is laid down for licence applicants of railway undertakings to comply with. Neither in the impact report nor in the reference of the Council of Ministers have you made any reference to this issue and it has had to be the Council of State that makes a worrying assessment, because it is not the same as the administrative activity, which the law considers to be of general interest, on public property that is carried out by a private entity as a public entity. It is not the same; and it is not the same an integrated network management as a segmentation or cutting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u30	Mr. Gordo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u31	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Madam Minister, for responsibility, for the consistency of the future of the railway sector, for the unity of the market, withdraw this bill. It is a government whim that does not add value and that the only thing it will generate is legal uncertainty and uncertainty for investors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordo. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u33	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that in order to be a debate about a rail model focused on high speed, its development has sometimes seemed more appropriate than those trains that took nine hours to cross 400 kilometers or the list of roads and stations from Irún to Madrid. Finally, on the basis of the substance of the matter, my group has not tabled an amendment in its entirety, but we do not share or have just understood the Government's haste to adopt a law at a time when, in addition, there is a debate in the European Parliament itself on the development of European rules or regulations for the development of a European rail system, which is worth redundancy. That is why we have not just understood this exactly, unless there is a basic explanation - the Minister has already explained it in great detail - as is the enormous pride and satisfaction that the government has with the development of its railway actions. And my group does not share - as we have said many times - neither this satisfaction nor this pride. We continue to think that the railway model that is developing is profoundly wrong; we continue to think that an onerous debt is left to the coming generations for the development of a system that has never been concerned about profitability or the economic sustainability of what is still - that is - one of the railway systems I do not know if of the best in the world, that it sounds somewhat pretentious to me, but of course of the most luxurious in the world, since we are the second country in the world that, incomprehensiblely, has more kilometers of AVE built, ahead of countries such as France, Germany, the United States and other economies much more powerful than ours and with a greater demand for rail transport. On the other hand, as has been said here, there is no economic concern - of course we have not found it in the law by any corner - for doing something with the incomprehensible delay or that has accumulated for many years - it is not, of course, the sole responsibility of this Government - in the transport of goods, which does have great importance for economic competitiveness; not only to transport executives, but to transport the goods, the products that the companies of these executives manufacture. This is important, because the minister has explained with great enthusiasm - or at least with great extent - the great returns that the railway system is bringing to Spain and has even set examples of cities that have benefited greatly from the AVE, etc. Yes, but he has forgotten a fundamental return, which is the huge debt that is accumulating for the amortization of very long-term investments, which are also kept in the absolutest of opacities. The public is still not informed of the true cost of the EVA and its implications, and of other developments and returns that have been abandoned to promote the construction of these lines, which often have a basically electoral interest and which also lead nowhere. For example, the so-called AVE to Extremadura, planned and running, with its technical characteristics and peculiarities because it is not a true AVE, and other things like that. He says it's a rail system at the service of the users. Look, neither, because there are permanent complaints in many metropolitan areas, that of Madrid without going any further, because the system of proximity, although indeed it has a lot of quality, is not yet enough, it is not a complete network that allows all the people of the metropolitan area of Madrid -6 million inhabitants - to have the same capacity of access, etc., which also has to do with the interests of the users. Or in Barcelona. Anyway, in the big metropolitan areas. You know it: you have abandoned or invested much less in mid-distance and in close proximity because the resources you had gone to the AVE. Just as there are still complete autonomous communities, such as the Murcia Region, that still have diesel trains because the system has not been electrified. What are you waiting for? That the AVE solves the problems of proximity? Obviously not, because it is not done for that or that is its purpose, even though sometimes it seems to be. In conclusion, this Government and also the previous one, despite the strong amendment to the whole of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have embarked the country on a railway model that is already difficult to reverse, difficult to correct. It has already been invested so much and in such a way that the problem that will be in the future will be to see how we can get performance to a train that was made without any kind of sustainability study and without any forecast of demand, and I no longer say anything about the articulation of the territory, because, as much as you engage, articulating the territory is not to unite all the capitals with a high speed train mesh, but it is something quite different, quite more important and quite less frivolous. Therefore, this law has some positive aspects that we recognize. For example, there is an important improvement in the provision of safety by creating a railway safety agency, which was needed, for example, to draw the consequences of accidents as tragic as that of Angrois two years ago, which require that there be an independent agency and that it is not ADIF itself that is responsible for acting as a judge and part of things like that. That is right, Minister, and we recognize it, but it is not enough reason or reason to make a new law, leaving aside other fundamental issues. Which ones? Of course, one is the railway model. What is the second one that seems to us fundamental? That of how you understand the liberalisation of rail services. Once again we find ourselves faced with a fundamental problem - you know what I'm going to tell you, because it has also appeared in the media that have devoted some space to this important question -: it has reappeared here in all its glory and splendor the phenomenon of the capitalism of friends. We are now faced with something that many experts have already warned will happen: the failure of the AVE Barcelona-Paris line. It was carried out by a company called TP Ferro in which it is - oh, by chance!- ACS from Florentino Pérez and a small French company, Eifagge. That company has started to operate a train line that has no profitability because there was no demand, since it is not even a line of AVE a hundred percent, despite the permanent and misleading propaganda of its ministry and of the companies involved, and since it has no demand, now that line of exploitation has found itself with a debt of nothing less than 428 million euros. Who's finally gonna pay them? Why formula? We do not know what formula you are going to choose, whether it will eventually be nationalization or another, but the fact is that this type of abusive contracts that guarantee the operator who takes the exploitation that will not have losses - exactly the same scandalous model of the Castor gas warehouse - the only thing they do is to squander citizens' pockets. It is finally going to be the state - that is, all of us - that pays for a business that was never, but that served - that yes - to make an agreement with Arthur Mas and also with France and occupy newspaper covers and minutes of television. However, what it has really served in the end is to create a fictitious business that is only authentic for which, because of its political relations, it achieves an exploitation that has neither profitability nor economic sustainability. Of course, we will not support this law unless it is clearly established that there can be no kind of liberalization worthy of that name unless it is preceded by a realistic study of the conditions of exploitation and its economic sustainability. If not, what will be done, as has been done in the case of this bluff, of this false AVE Barcelona-Paris, is to create the conditions for certain experts to extract resources from the public treasury to continue doing business that are only for them and that are terrible for the general interest and for the State. Having said that, during the process of the law we will be submitting amendments hoping that they can be improved and, in the case of the refund amendments that have been tabled, we will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u34	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I will set out the position of the Convergence and Union Group on the amendments to the whole of the draft law on the railway sector. Of all the honourable Members and the Minister, my group's interest in railway matters is well known. In fact, I want to claim here the decisive action that my predecessors have had in this rostrum in relation to the paternity of such important issues as the international width in Spain, at the very proposal of Don Miquel Roca Junyent, and I would also like to remind the promoter of the modernization of the high-speed network, Albert Vilalta, at his stage as Secretary of State for Infrastructure Planning. For us, therefore, the railway issue is absolutely key and, in relation to this issue, we wonder why this law, what this law can do. They will allow me to begin by making our diagnosis of what the rail transport network in Spain means today. In our view we have a big problem, and it is that we have an important, very extensive network, largely modernized, but severely underused. I therefore believe that the first objective of railway policy must be to value the use of the network, because this heritage is everyone's, but if it does not serve us all, objectively this does not work. On the other hand, despite having this great network, there is a persistence of strangulations and many stretches throughout the entire geography half build. Until a few days ago the Galician Atlantic Corridor was in the middle of building; fortunately it is already finished, but still today there is only one way between Vandellós and Tarragona, which is absolutely shameful at this point. One does not understand how even though this project was started in 2001 - I lived it directly -, fourteen years later we have not been able to finish 40 kilometers of single track on plain ground. Therefore, there are serious strangulations and also endemic problems, such as that of the network of closenesses of Barcelona. I always say the same thing, here we can say big words, but right now - you go to the networks - there are citizens who are telling us that, as every day - the other day I was angry with the President of the Government but it is every day - thousands of citizens in Catalonia are bottled, suffering delays, suffering from poor service in the network of neighbourhoods of Barcelona. And I must say that in many cases even in spite of Renfe, but it is that the network is insufficient, for a long time it has been poorly preserved, has no capacity and this is suffered by the citizens. Therefore, when we say uplifting words that it is the best in the world and blablablá, let us be aware, because right now there are citizens to whom we are rendering a terrible service. Finally, in this brief analysis we have another serious problem, and it is that we have not just resolved the issue of rail freight transport. There are still too many rigidities, we are not able to invest in small things like a few railway yards to give profitability, to contest certain railway terminals, etc. And there is another important problem that has been discussed here today and that I am very concerned about, and that is that the network manager is subjected to a very important stress because instead of being the network manager we have given him the role of builder of the network and, therefore, the construction of the network takes precedence over administration. It seems to me that it is a very important problem the stress to which the people who are working at ADIF are subjected, the financial stress that will put the company itself at risk in the coming years. Look at how all this brief and certainly shallow analysis leads us to the need that with the new law or with any policy instrument we are able to solve the great equation, to make greater use of the network. From that point of view, we, who have not tabled an amendment to the whole despite the fact that we do not share some aspects of the law, believe that in the process of law - we take the Minister's words that there is a willingness to speak; we, as you know perfectly well, are going to participate through constructive amendments - some of the problems that lead to the network being not sufficiently used can be solved. I'll give you some examples. On the subject of canons, the legal scheme seems to me much better than the one we have, it is obvious, but it still has strange things. For example, those who drive a more efficient train, instead of being rewarded, are punished. I mean, if I run a train that has more squares and consumes the same energy, I usually get rewarded. A normal country would reward efficiency, but not here. As you have greater capacity, I punish you. This doesn't make sense. It also punishes those transporting with higher occupancy rates because they are concerned and make better trade policy. No, please. The obsession has to be competitiveness, productivity, even if we talk about public enterprises. I'm talking about Renfe, who's the big operator. The mechanisms of the canons must be completed in order to give priority to productivity. I repeat that I am talking, first of all, about Renfe. Another very important aspect. Minister, please don't be a fan of the CORA, this terrible invention. The world is cooperative. Let them cooperate with the communities, the private ones. For example, there is a unique theme: tourist railways. Spain is a tourist country. Do you know on what subject the Spanish tourism sector is worse than our rivals? On the tourist railways. Why? Because they are not regulated, and the law, above them, punishes them. Therefore, I ask you for special attention, a gesture so that in the law - we are going to present a package of amendments - we can give our hand to the tourist railways, because there are many lines where there is nothing. The old line from Madrid to Burgos practically has service. Someone, near Madrid, tried, and even spent money rehabilitating a train, being able to do a service and couldn't because he was tied up with his hands and feet. Before this rots, please give an opportunity to a topic as important as tourism. I would also ask you, as did the spokesman for the Basque Group - whose amendment, by the way, is the only one that we are going to support from all there is - to have the autonomous communities, which have competence. There have been rulings from the Constitutional Court that I believe clearly draw the picture. Be generous. If a line is in disuse, before dismantling it or before letting it rot over the years let a community try to manage it. This will must be noted, and here you will have, Minister, our amendments with the will to cooperate. Madam Minister, I know that this law has been somewhat hasty, and I am not saying it, but the Council of State believes it speaks of an insufficient degree of maturity. That's what there is, but we have laws here, and it's our duty to perfect them. I ask you, Minister, to try to compensate for this insufficient degree of maturation that the law had in its initial process with greater generosity in meeting the demands of the groups. For our part, it won't stay. In addition, I ask you to do so taking into account something very important. Today, Minister, I have seen that the Spanish railway sector as a whole - manufacturers, builders, public companies themselves - is competing for the British high-speed line. This is positive, it is giving jobs and we cannot deny it, Minister, but on the same day that we had such positive news, we had trains standing and behind in the vicinity of Barcelona, and I don't know if in Madrid. Therefore, minister, when we process this law let us think about this railway that we all like and that makes us look good for the world, but let us also think about the social railway. Of course, the Convergence and Union Group will do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u36	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the People's Group, Mr Ayala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are discussing the amendments in their entirety to the law on the railway sector which replaces Law 39/2003. I am not going to gloss over or apostilize the minister, who has made an absolutely clear and compelling statement in defence of the project and its management and, therefore, the People's Parliamentary Group supports it in its entirety. We are faced with a good project, at the necessary time, to replace a twelve-year law that has to be adapted to new circumstances and new requirements. As I said, it amends and replaces Law 39/2003, on the basis - I think it should be stressed - of rigorous planning, indicative strategy, programmes of activity, ADIF-Ministry of Development agreements for sustainable financing. I would like to stress that this represents the greatest advance in technical coverage and social and also economic profitability in the construction of infrastructure in Spain, despite the fact that it weighs heavily. It establishes a new system of fees, which has explained the minister, that they involve a liberalization of the services progressive and orderly, as mark Europe and as mark the commission created by the ministry for the future of the railway sector - progressive and orderly -, carried out with transparency, simplification and favoring and enhancing the role of the ports, guaranteeing the essential services and the obligations of public service - I will have to emphasize several times - that they will be provided permanently by Renfe - there is no transfer and liberalization in this matter -, prioritizing the security above all and giving coverage to the State Agency of Railway Security. By the way, I say this even though the representative of UPyD, approved in December 2014 and put into operation on April 1, 2015, has already left. I would like to remind you that the one who controlled security before was not ADIF but the Directorate-General for Railways. We must have some knowledge of what our institutions are. It also establishes a new sanctioning regime and transposes the Recast Directive. It is true that in our rail system we have to improve the occupation - of course - but in 2014 we have had 465 million passengers, i.e. 32% more than in 2011. And in the matter of goods, for which we obviously also have to fight, we have grown for the first time in a decade; therefore, today we are in that. We are going to discuss the five amendments to the bill as a whole, which I have to say have been tabled by political strategy and not by legislative basis. So much so, that some arguments are absolutely invented. The procedure has not been carried out with haste, but with diligence, and I believe that we must respond to the interventions made here this morning by some of the speakers. Mr Gordo, if you mean that we have worked, yes; if you mean that you did not do anything, too; if you mean that Spain was made a solar by socialist desidiy, yes. What they have to tell us is why they lost the elections: for irresponsible and ignorant. How dare you now dogmatize and teach lessons? I have reviewed the 2003 debates on Law 39/2003 - which you have not done - and said the same, criticism and dogmatism and that they were going to repeal the law, and then applied it without hesitation. In the full debate they said they were going to repeal it and then apply it without hesitation. Moreover, they approved the regulations that we left them made. This is your credibility, Mr Gordo, this is your credibility. They did not even make substantial changes, twice they modified it and could have repealed it, given the debate, it was not fit for another. That's the consistency of your arguments. This law will be in force for many years, not because you will not repeal it, but because it will continue to govern the People's Party. So, capricious faces to the gallery, Mr. Gordo. The report of the Council of State - if you had read it well, but have not read it - says that there is essential criticism of two articles, which have been corrected, which can be referred to the Council of Ministers. I don't think you've read enough until you get to the sheet that says so. Obviously, that is, it hides in an arterical way, that the law does not set the amount of the fees but only their definition. If you had read section 3.2 of the normative impact memory - if you want to read it, I have it here - you would know that it says it is not necessary. Therefore, everything you base on partial readings... [[Mr Gordo speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u38	Wait a minute, Mr. Ayala. Mr Gordo, you have argued as you see fit and have been respected. I demand that you respect exactly the same. Mr. Ayala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u39	I insist on partial and interested readings of a report. Besides, you say things that don't hold, because if it seems to you that putting stock on the market is selling assets, you have to know a little bit more economy than you presume. And to say that we should have incorporated the European regulations, when they are directly applicable, forgive me, Mr Gordo, but it shows supine ignorance. And it not only shows ignorance in these matters, but also not knowing that in the Mediterranean corridor you did not make a single contract and that it will end in 2016; that AENA, Mr Gordo, in 2004 had 5 billion debt and 12,200 in 2011, or that ADIF went from 800 to 9,300. That's the management you can boast of. With regard to Mrs De las Heras, Your Honor, they do not like high speed, I think by 19th-century and Soviet ideology. That's why the Soviets have now overtaken them. Take off the bandage, the high speed is good for the whole of Spain and the Spaniards. The law does not go from everything you have said here, the law is something else. That's right, as always we have to get the economic ghosts out. And to say that the law is undemanding with security, is a real sarcasm. Mrs Sánchez Robles, you bring here your transport litigation, which you take to the smallest occasion, any occasion is good. Have you read page 25 of the opinion of the Council of State? Did you read it to her? The minister has read it before. It respects the constitutional division of powers, they are in line with the constitutional bloc established by the Constitutional Court. That is what the Council of State has said. We do not understand that you lost fifteen minutes today trying to say otherwise when, with a sentence that the minister read you, you had enough. That's right, we know, it's wrong. No one, Mrs Sánchez Robles, discusses the competence of the autonomous communities in the field of transport, no one eliminates them, but of course the railway network of general interest is what it is, of general interest, and not anything else. So, I don't think he's coming to the story. And I don't think they have any complaints about public service obligations precisely in the Basque Country. Another thing would be to be insolidary. With regard to Mr Tardà's speech, I would like to know what the real reasons he has pointed out. He has spoken of proximity, and I would like to know what happened so that the railways or the metro in Catalonia would have the same breakdowns on the same day, because of that he says nothing about it; or I would like him to say why the Generalitat does not pay the debt he owes to the State of the exploitation of the railways and the vicinity. I would like to know because, given the investments in Catalonia, what it does is have an unusualness and a contempt for the rest of Spain impressive. You are victims of what? Have EUR 8,895 million been invested in the legislature, of which 2,900 are for railway infrastructure or 640 for neighbourhoods? Is that what you're victims of? So let's ask the rest of the Spanish state, the rest of Spain, what do you think of those investments you have. Of victims, nothing; on the contrary, pampered by the Spanish State and the budgets of a Government of the People's Party; that is the reality. Finally, as far as Mrs Pérez's speech is concerned, I do not think she has heard anything about what has been said here this morning by the Minister because, from my point of view, she has made a whimsical speech. Nothing is sold here, at all, there is no privatization here, there is no weakening or abandonment of the conventional network; on the contrary, it has been given the figures of occupation of the Atlantic axis and the substantial improvement it has had can be seen. Obviously, he does not want to see it; I do not think he hears or sees the reality of his own Galicia. With regard to security, there had never been any legal, non-regulatory, security regulation like the one we have made. It seems that the fact that you have invested 1.8 billion in public service obligations does not guarantee you, nor does what the minister has said or what we have repeated to your satisfaction that public service obligations are not the subject of liberalisation; therefore, abandon that speech because it does not lead you anywhere. Its gloomy and apocalyptic panorama is quite different from a reality recognized by all and also in Galicia. I'm done, Madam President. The law is good. The People's Parliamentary Group supports it. Obviously - the Minister has said it and, of course, we support it - we are reaching out to those partial amendments in which we are able to reach agreements and which will improve a text which is already sufficient and suitable for the future of the railway sector in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Mr Gordo Pérez asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ayala. Mr. Fat?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u41	I would like to thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u42	Mr. Gordo, you have been the spokesman of the PSOE and normally the allusions have to be to you as spokesman...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u43	Personal, personal.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u44	It only has a minute for personal allusions, nothing to do with political argumentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u45	I'll do it with all the references, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u46	If you don't, I'll take your word for it. Tell them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u47	Personal allusions have been made to my person, disqualifications, assessments. Everyone manifests himself as he is. We call for a debate...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u48	Mr. Gordo, no. Personal remarks, not political debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u49	Personal allusions. Do you find little the disqualifications you've made about my person, knowledge, ignorance...?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u50	You tell them what they are.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u51	I don't think it's a receipt. I insist, everyone manifests himself as he is. We're different.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u52	Well, thank you very much. Mr. Ayala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have found a reality, Mr Gordo's lack of knowledge. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ayala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u55	We move on to the full debate on the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector and the draft law on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, which will be discussed cumulatively as agreed in the Board of Spokespersons. The Minister for Finance and Public Administration has the floor for his presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing two bills to the House for validation in an area that constitutes the very life of a modern society such as Spain, the public administration. These are the draft law on the common administrative procedure of public administrations and the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector. Both are part of the comprehensive reform that this Government has undertaken since the beginning of the legislature in the field of public administration. Both are also valuable tools to ensure that the Administration fulfils its obligations effectively, makes life easier for citizens, responds quickly and adequately to their demands and removes the greatest number of obstacles and obstacles that actually exist in the relationship between the Administration and the Administration. The public administration is the backbone of the state. Their strength or weakness affect the country as a whole. The agility or slowness with which it responds to its citizens and the transparency or opacity of its actions speak well to the clarity of a modern and open State, which constitutes the very essence of society and, of course, fully democratic, or of a State which may, on the contrary, be stagnant, which does not follow the compass of its citizens and thus becomes an obstacle to economic and social progress. These three and a half years of legislature, the Government, in relation to the public administration, has faced a fiscal crisis of the State, the greatest in our history, a fiscal crisis of the State that is closely related to the social crisis, the crisis that citizens have experienced and that still lives a large part of Spanish citizens. To deal with this crisis is the responsibility of the State, not only of a government, it is the responsibility of all public administrators who face this duality of undertaking structural reforms in the functioning of our public administrations, so that the costs of its functioning, which are borne by citizens' taxes, correspond to the quality of the public services it offers. That has been the task of these three and a half years of legislature. The reduction of the public deficit is not an excuse for the modernisation of public administrations. On the contrary, only modern, efficient, agile public administrations, which make full use of their capabilities, technological capabilities and which avoid the duplication of competition actions between the areas of administrations, are able to carry out a reduction in the public deficit without diminishing the quality of public services. The functions of a modern State are irrefutable for their progress. These are functions related to defence, to citizen security, to the execution of justice. These are functions related to income guarantee for those citizens, millions of citizens, who do not have the capacity to generate their own income, as is the case with the public pension system or the unemployment benefit. Action is also taken by the State to ensure equal opportunities in education, health care, housing and other social benefits without which we cannot understand a modern society. Therefore, the response of the administrations has to be, in turn, immediate, agile, to be able to anticipate the demands of the citizens. It is like having to run several speed tests to achieve successive goals, one after another, and, at the same time, thinking that the ultimate goal was not to cover a marathon, but to achieve that goal that is to provide citizens with modern and efficient public services that are typical of a developed society such as Spain. The urgency at the beginning of the parliamentary term was not imposed on us alone - and I extend myself to explain this - by the imbalance in the public accounts, by the failure to meet the public deficit objectives that had left us at the door not only of a rescue from Spain, but at the worst, in the collapse in the functioning of the State, in the lack of liquidity resources of the public administrations, in which public services could not be financed and the payroll of citizens could not be financed. The slowness of public administrations, territorial administrations, to the point of endangering the existence of tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, or the viability of large companies, Spanish multinationals and foreign multinationals operating in Spain, i.e. the provision of public services, had been triggered. To deal with this situation, to combat it, we adopted numerous measures that saved public expenditure in the administration, but they were also of a resemblance to the structure of the State in order to adapt them to the real needs of the citizens. We put in place, and it is important to identify it this way, measures of austerity, of containment of the staff of the Administration, which led us even to propose - I myself as Minister of Finance and Public Administrations did it in July 2012 from this forum - to increase the hours worked and to shift the payment of the extra payment of that December 2012, while we did not renew the departure of officials that occurred on the occasion of the retirement or the expiration of their contracts, in the case of temporary contracts, and the implementation that same year of an extremely strict replacement rate, so that it was 0% the renewal and covered only 10% of the casualties and exclusively what we call essential sectors. In that area, we have called for a great deal of effort from officials and, therefore, we do not understand the criticism that continues to say that we have done nothing in the field of public administration. Ask those who are working in the Public Service. Apparently they don't talk to them in terms, with the normality and simplicity they should have. During the past parliamentary term, there was a paradox that while millions of jobs were destroyed in the private sector, almost 3.5 million jobs, the payroll of public administrations was growing; it certainly grew in a disorientation which was to try to alleviate, when it did not compensate, the destructive effects of private economic activity leading to job closures. In fact, in the period 2004-2010, the number of public employees increased by 11.4%, and since then, from 2010 to the end of 2014, it has decreased by 9.9%. That makes us have a more sustainable public function today, that's true, but we have to emphasize that we have a public administration, more professional public administrators, that we can't humanly decapitalize the state, that we have to have a public administration with people who can value what that concept of public service means. Without those public servants of national defence, of public security, of the Administration of Justice; without those public servants in hospitals, in educational institutions; without those public servants who guarantee the recovery of pensions, of the recovery of unemployment insurance; without those public servants who apply the enforcement of tax legislation so that these public services can be financed, Spain really could not be what it is today. It is not the same working in the public service as doing it in a private activity. In a private activity it is fundamental because they are generators of wealth and employment activity, but the public service must be understood as a fundamental axis without which private activity cannot function, cannot operate, cannot serve its own purpose, which is the creation of national wealth and above all the creation of jobs; that is the public service. It is not a guaranteed job, it is much more; it is a job committed to carrying out an activity without which a modern society cannot exist. Therefore, this morning on the occasion of the presentation of these laws, I do not want to repeat again in my capacity as Minister of Finance and Public Administration the message of recognition to public employees, I do not want to stay there; I want to commit the Government's purpose to dignify the Public Service, to explain what that Public Service means, and therefore the Government's commitment is to return the effort made by those citizens, but not only to compensate, but to gain in those jobs, the ability to manage, the ability to equip them with those public services and, of course, also the ability to generate the illusion and motivation that this Public Service must have. That is why the current debates on returning part of a pay are going much further, and we are talking about paying public officials in our country correctly. That is the real debate that we must hold, once we are achieving among all that Spain is overcoming this situation of economic crisis. That's why I was saying that it goes beyond compensation, it's really going to achieve a public service goal, a dignity of the Public Service and to get us to have in our country, as fortunately we already have in many areas, a public service of the highest quality. What is behind, the goal is the well-being of the Spaniards. This is what really makes sense to the coordination of our administrations in the state of autonomy. That is why we cannot conceive of the well-being of all Spaniards in a disorganized, dismembered way, lack of coordination. In the face of those who at the time established that each public institution should save itself from the crisis, although this would endanger the provision of essential public services, the People's Party Government decided that the State must always guarantee access to health care, education, social benefits and public pensions - guaranteed by the State - regardless of where it lives or the financial situation of the institution on which these public services depend. Obviously, to achieve this, we had to use public debt, but we did so in a process of issuing public debt and precisely the forbearers, the buyers of that public debt increased confidence in Spain, confidence in the public debt issued by our administrations, reducing the cost of it. The increase in public debt that we have experienced in Spain, therefore, is not the result of a mismanagement of public expenditure, waste or mismanagement, as has happened at other stages, but the result of sustaining social spending, paying health bills, education bills and other social benefits, and we can say that thanks to this indebtedness all the autonomous communities and municipalities have been able to continue to maintain their public services, hospitals, outpatients, consultations; children have been able to remain in classes and families in vulnerable situations have been able to continue to receive the help of the welfare State. [[The Lord]] Many territorial administrations had no liquidity to pay it, so we have had to borrow money, which has meant increasing our debt, but that is helping us out of the crisis and making us stronger when from the state we develop more protection for the weakest in society. In return, autonomous communities and municipalities have made an effort of austerity and commitment in the management of their resources. Administrative duplications have been eliminated, public enterprises, entities and bodies that were inefficient and did not meet the objectives for which they were created - more than 2,000 entities have disappeared - and the average period of payment to suppliers from our public administrations has been drastically reduced. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the adoption of these urgent and still necessary measures, the impact of which has been noted in the short and medium term, has been accompanied by a policy of profound transformation of the Administration, the aim of which is to meet the demands of a more modern society that needs a new way of connecting to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the current stage of economic growth. In this process of transformation and administrative reform, the creation of the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations, known as CORA, has been of decisive importance. Since the first few weeks, the CORA has been working intensively on analysis and planning so that the reform can be carried out on the basis of rigorous and sufficiently studied proposals, far from any temptation to improvise. The result of that work, as the President of the Government, Don Mariano Rajoy, said in his day, was, first of all, an X-ray, the most thorough ever made of our public sector in democracy. On the basis of this diagnosis, appropriate measures could be adopted to resolve the main problems facing the Administration. To date, 222 measures have been activated, the main objectives of which are to simplify and speed up the functioning of the Administration, reducing burdens for citizens and businesses; to eliminate possible duplication and improve cooperation between the various public administrations; to reduce costs and coordinate common services in the State; and to rationalise the so-called institutional Administration. The CORA is a political process, led by Vice-President Soraya Sáez de Santamaría and her team from the Vice-President of the Government, working directly with the team of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration. Two years after that report, more than 70 % of the planned measures have already been implemented and virtually all the rest are in the process of doing so. At this time, the CORA report has been a backbone of the activities of the Government and of the public administration as a whole and has made it possible to obtain significant savings not only for the General Administration of the State, but especially for the rest of the administrations and above all for their recipients, who are citizens and businesses. However, beyond the savings achieved, one of the main objectives of the reforms is to lay the groundwork for a new model of public administration to which I referred before, through the adoption of laws that aim to provide us with a modern and effective legal framework that adapts the bureaucratic armor of the State to the challenges of a society that has changed at a dizzying speed and to which the traditional administrative structure has become outdated and narrow. Thus, the various rules and initiatives launched in recent years have enabled innovative measures such as the introduction of e-invoices and the development of more efficient services for citizens through new technologies such as pre-dates, portals or shared services between administrations, which produce savings for both citizens and businesses as well as for the administration itself. Also the single procurement platform, which allows centralized purchases with the consequent efficiency in the expenditure or empowerment of the e-Government in the field of health, which is an improvement in patient care, especially when it is outside its place of residence. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain today, Spain emerging from the crisis, Spain which is already part of globalisation, Spain which wants to take advantage of new opportunities for growth and employment is not the same as it was just a couple of decades ago. This Spain for which we are preparing a new Administration is that which is interconnected, which is linked through social networks and electronic devices, which is informed through the Internet and for which there are no windows, queues, print or paper. It is the administration of the future, an administration that cannot wait and to which we must give an answer from today. That is our commitment as a Government and that must be the commitment of all public administrations. The priority is the citizen and towards the citizen must be focused all our efforts of modernization, transparency, dynamism and efficiency, regardless of which government provides the public service. And let no one see ghosts of recentralization where there are no ghosts. Electronic interconnection does not seek to invade anyone's competences, it only seeks, as in a large network of highways that spread throughout the country, to give agility and effectiveness the administrative act in favor of citizens, businesses and economic progress. In the past, for a long time, there was a perception that administrative procedures, bureaucracy, were holding back society's initiatives and a burden on progress. Fortunately, that is something that has been corrected. But we need to go further, more quickly, to have a more modern, professional, agile, efficient and transparent administration that acts in a balanced way to what citizens and businesses need. That is the purpose of the two bills that we bring here today. We are convinced that an increasingly global and competitive economy and an advanced society such as the Spanish one require a dynamic administration that facilitates the lives of those who are managed, that gives precise response to their demands and that proposes relations free of obstacles and obstacles. In parallel, the public administration itself must regulate its internal activity with transparent, rapid and efficient principles of action. That is what CORA brings, and that is what includes the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations Act and the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector. The first focuses on regulating external relations between public administrations and administrations. The second deals with a systematic regulation of internal relations between administrations. What is the purpose of the Law on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations? What is the public administration model that the citizen is going to find? We are talking about an administration totally interconnected by electronic means; an administration in which the tendency is to eliminate the role in relations with citizens and businesses. This means that managers may carry out their tasks at any time, at any time of the day or night, using the electronic record of any Administration, regardless of which body is addressed. In order to facilitate this possibility, all administrations must have an electronic register or, even, can join the General Administration of the State. It also means that no document already in the hands of the Administration will have to be submitted. In other words, no citizen will be found with whom he or she cannot carry out any procedure because he or she lacks a document that has been issued by the Administration; it will have to be this, the Administration, that obtains the copies that he or she needs of any document that is registered electronically. All this means a significant reduction in administrative burdens for citizens and businesses when they relate to the public administration. In addition, an express administrative procedure will be provided for cases of less complexity, which will require a decision to be taken within a maximum of 30 days with the consequent reduction of costs. To facilitate these electronic relations, the use of keys will be enhanced, which will be facilitated at the time of administrative proceedings, while the use of advanced or recognized electronic signature will only be required for more relevant and complex proceedings. Of course, citizens continue to have the right to carry out face-to-face actions if they so wish or to request the assistance of officials in submitting documents electronically, in case citizens are not accustomed to using such electronic means. On the other hand, companies will be obliged to engage electronically with the Administration, in the same way as they already do with Social Security or the Tax Agency, which are models of management and example in terms of efficiency. I would also like to highlight the possibilities for citizen participation that opens up this new concept of public administration. The constitutional right of citizens and businesses to participate in the rule-making process is guaranteed, regardless of the government that drives it, as all rules apply to everyone. In addition, citizens' participation in the drafting of the rules is increased, through questionnaires that will capture the views of citizens and businesses on the problems that are intended to be solved with the initiative, the need for its approval or not, the objectives and possible alternatives. In addition, to improve legal certainty and transparency, administrations will develop a regulatory plan that will be public and that will reflect all proposals with a legislative or regulatory status that will be adopted in the following year. Subsequently, the administrations themselves will periodically review their existing legislation in order to adapt it to the principles of good regulation and to analyse its effects and the degree of compliance with its objectives. On the other hand, all administrations must be connected by electronic means, both internally and with each other. To this end, they will use brokering platforms to share documents. In addition, a single public inventory of all bodies and entities will be created so that they can be known to citizens and businesses. The same philosophy will create a state registry in which all the cooperation bodies in which the General Administration of the State participates and all the agreements that the General Administration has signed with the rest of the administrations will be included. The draft law on the legal regime of the public sector also affects the fiscal consolidation policy implemented throughout this legislature, establishing new causes for the dissolution of entities, for example, when they are in economic imbalance for two years or it is found that they no longer fulfil the purpose for which they were created. In the same vein, to improve control over state agencies, the achievement of their objectives will be regularly evaluated. In addition, demanding conditions will be imposed for the creation of any new state body, requiring that its life be fully justified and economically sustainable. Finally, I believe that the regulation of sectoral conferences as bodies of cooperation between the State and the autonomous communities and as a mechanism for preventing duplication is very relevant. Among its new functions will be to be informed of the regulatory changes envisaged both by the Government of Spain and by the governments of the autonomous communities when they may affect the competences of other public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, Larra's Spain settled among us for decades as if it were living in our own collective unconscious and for the public administration it became a sort of curse from which it has certainly proved very complicated to unravel. Today, of that nineteenth-century Spain, there is fortunately nothing left. Today's Spain is a Spain of effort and treasure, it is Spain of the Internet and of the new technologies; a Spain prepared that looks with confidence to the future and is ready to take advantage of all the opportunities presented to it. The Spanish public administration wants to be the faithful reflection of that society and has to respond to it. It must be a modern and technological Administration ready to provide rapid and efficient responses, an Administration whose management is transparent and effective. The Government has assessed with its officials the situation of its administrative structures and has worked these years to adapt them to this future, which is what citizens are demanding of us. The bills we put forward for the validation of Congress are part of that work and desire, part of the political aspiration of those who work in the administration to improve that great common house that serves the whole society and that is a consubstantial part of it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, he requested the House's support. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Three amendments to the full refund have been submitted to each of these bills. Firstly, for the defence of these amendments to each bill, by the Group of the Plural Left, Mrs Castaño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two bills are being submitted to this House, the common administrative procedure of public administrations and the legal regime of the public sector, which constitute the compendium of three existing rules: Law 30/1992, Law 50/1997 and Law 11/2007. These laws were probably necessary to revise and adjust to the current reality and the opportunity to integrate and revise the provisions of Law 19/2013 has probably also been missed. However, in recognizing the need to address this task, we conclude our agreement. We have tabled two amendments in their entirety, which give an extensive account of the reasons why we are opposed to the projects submitted, so my speech will focus exclusively on certain specific aspects which lead us to support the return of the texts to the Executive. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that these are particularly relevant rules. The Minister referred a moment ago in his speech to the rules that will form part of the life of a modern society. The first of these rules is the rules of administrative procedure, i.e. the orderly set of procedures and actions to be followed by public administrations in order to conform to their will and which generally end in the administrative act. On the other hand, this rule also regulates what is very important to us, the relations of citizens with the Administration, fixing the rights and guarantees of these with regard to administrative activity. Therefore, we are faced with a rule that will undermine the action of the Administration and that will condition and condition the relationship of citizens with it. The second of the rules, the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector, regulates nothing more and nothing less than the internal functioning of each administration and the relationship between them. Therefore, they are two laws that will constitute and that will be the pillars on which administrative law will be established and, as we are told, are the result of a rigorous process of data collection, dialogue between professionals and diagnosis of the weaknesses of public administrations. Well, given the importance of these rules, we would have liked that rigour in the preparation to which reference is made would also have been applied to the handling in this House. It does not seem appropriate to try to solve a complex article in a quick, simple and overturned reading, nor does it seem relevant when it is almost at the end of the legislature - because this legislature is going to end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and with it its roll - that two rules of special importance and complexity, such as those facing them today, are subject to debate. But in the attempt to simulate that something is done or perhaps worried about getting revenues from an absolute majority that you already know you won't have again, you are involved in what I rightly called last Thursday my colleague Joan Coscubiela legislative furor, considering that making many laws is doing better politics. Turning to the rules that are presented today, it is necessary to deal with whether those who promote them have the competence to regulate the matters that are being dealt with. In that sense, let me tell you, Minister, that you seem to inhabit a parallel universe, that universe in which the crisis that plagues citizenship is a thing of the past - yesterday, without going any further, the President of the Government told us - in which young people are not forced to emigrate, in which families are moving happily towards a future of pink color or in which, as was said in this very rostrum on Tuesday when discussing child poverty, this X Legislature is the most social legislature. It is a parallel reality in which, in this case, those who believe that they can regulate, until they exhaust, all aspects of a matter; a parallel universe in which it is obvious that the Spanish State is, in the classification of the Constitutional Court, a composite State, referring to the particular design made by the Constitution of the distribution of competences among the various constitutionally constituted territorial entities. Ladies and gentlemen, parallel universes can be attractive and are a good resource in the series or in science fiction films, but being located in these universes is extremely dangerous when it comes to intervention or legislation on the public thing; it is because the decisions that are taken can have serious consequences for the citizenry and, as the case before us, give rise to disputes and disputes of great importance by invading the competences of the autonomous communities. On this occasion, as with other laws that have been debated in this House - because I cannot go any further I can refer to the draft law that we discussed a moment ago on the railway sector - we are dealing with projects that try to circumvent the limits imposed by the constitutional text, with the aim of bringing about a covert recentralisation. In our view, the wording of the two rules makes an abusive interpretation of article 149.1.18 (a) of the Constitution and also extends to this purpose by making use of other constitutional precepts that are not in Title VIII, such as articles 103 and 105, the field of intervention of State action without any constitutional sustenance, so that, in order to prosper the rules that are now presented, as mentioned above, a contentious future is likely to arise. By way of example, bearing in mind some of the considerations contained in the particular vote of the member of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Enrique Lucas Murillo de la Cueva, to which other members have acceded, certain paragraphs of the Law on the common administrative procedure may have constitutional problems, paragraphs such as the one referring to the regulation of collegiate bodies in such a detailed and comprehensive manner that it does not allow the autonomous communities to deploy their capacity for legislative development; or when it refers to the procedure for the elaboration of rules and provisions, which establishes as a basic rule a set of procedures for compulsory compliance for all public administrations, which clearly exceeds the framework laid down in the constitutional text; or the implementation of a specific model of e-government, since, as set out in the second additional provision, both the autonomous communities and the local entities must justify in terms of efficiency their non-adherence to the registers and platforms established by the General Administration of the State, and moreover, they must ensure that they comply with a number of requirements and technical standards of development, so that in practice the necessary instruments can be complied with. Invasion of jurisdiction is also seen in the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector. The second title goes into the areas of the organization, not only administrative but also institutional, of the autonomous communities, so that this project that is presented exhausts the margin of autonomous action, preventing the autonomous communities from taking measures that legitimately correspond to them in defense of their interests and in establishing their own organizational configuration policies. In another respect, as mentioned above, the draft law on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, which is now being debated, regulates the rights and guarantees of citizens with regard to the public administration. In this regard, it is worth highlighting the imbalance that we believe arises between the intended functionality of the rule and respect for citizens' rights and guarantees. The bill is extremely unbalanced in favour of first value, functionality, and on the contrary rights appear to be diluted throughout the article. Thus, provisions are introduced that could in practice lead to a reversal in the rights of citizens. We are referring, for example, to the regulation of the electronic procedure, and in particular to the obligation laid down for citizens in Article 14 to be connected by electronic means when they are in one of the collectives referred to in that Article or when such a regulation establishes it. Obviously, without questioning the progress of electronic processing or of course advocating for a nineteenth-century administration in which the role is at the heart of the administrative process, we do not think that compulsory use is the best solution to extend the use of electronic means. In our view, such an obligation should only be reserved for exceptional circumstances. That being said, ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to the transformation of rights into obligations, as we move from a recognition of the right of citizens to be connected electronically with public administrations, together with the obligation of public administrations to provide themselves with the means and systems necessary for this right to be exercised, to the obligation of the citizen of this relationship. Our concern in this case is even greater, if any, when there are no provision from the text for support mechanisms for collectives who may have problems with access to the digital universe. Electronic processing, as reflected in the draft, in addition to affecting, as mentioned above, citizens' rights, also imposes new obligations or burdens on the rest of the administrations. This is particularly worrying in the case of the local administration, which, as you know, is always under-resourced and under pressure from the proximity of citizens' demands. These administrations will have to adapt their operation to this procedure, without establishing in the framework of this rule the conditions that existed previously, relating to budget availability as a limit to the deployment of electronic means, and all this without providing for the transfer of the precise economic resources to these administrations. As soon as I finish my speech, I would like to point out that both projects often include the reference to citizens and businesses in terms of equality, and there are many examples. There is talk of the essential safeguard of citizens' and businesses' rights; of saving costs for citizens and businesses; of seeking citizens' and businesses' views in the drafting of the rules; of simplifying the procedures through which citizens and businesses relate to the administration; of public administrations focusing on the service of citizens and businesses. And so, in a machaconous way, reference is made to businesses on an equal footing with citizens. Company, company, company. Perhaps this is something we might consider anecdotal or unimportant, but the small details often reveal the concerns, mentality and ideology of those who lead them. On this occasion, behind the repeated reference to the company, which is at the same level as citizens, veneration and subordination, when not contested, is probably hidden to the world of the company or the big company. While it is true that companies are related to the administration, it is also true that these companies are made up of citizens and that through them they act. In addition, other legal persons - third sector entities, associations and citizens, sports clubs, etc. - are also related to the Administration and, on the other hand, all of them are not referred to in the text. As you all know, from our group we have focused all this time on the defence of public services, we have opposed the cuts that have been suffered by public employees, which Mr Montoro has taken up in his speech. We have opposed the abolition of extra pay, the freezing of wages, the increase in working hours. And let me say, Minister, that public employees - and I am going to speak first because until about two weeks ago I was one of those employees who are trying to work effectively and efficiently, despite the cuts - we do not need our work to be recognized in this forum, what we need and demand is that all those measures that have been taken be eliminated, as well as the limits to the replacement rate so that we can provide our services effectively and efficiently. As I said, from the Plural Left we have opposed all the cuts and we are, as it could not otherwise be, particularly interested and interested in compliance with article 103 of the Constitution, when it is indicated that the public administration must serve the general interests objectively. From La Izquierda Plural we understand that citizens' demands have changed and that citizenship requires a more agile, efficient, technologically advanced administration, permeable to social demands and also more transparent, closer to citizens, which ultimately places people at the centre of their actions. We also believe that dialogue, collaboration and respect for the division of powers must prevail in relations between different administrations. In our view, the projects presented here are not the response to the needs we have listed. Therefore, for all that has been said so far and in accordance with the two amendments we have tabled in their entirety, from the Plural Left we will support the amendments in their entirety that are being tabled today and in the course of amendments we will present those which we later consider can contribute to improving the texts presented. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castaño. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Unity, I have the floor, Mrs Sayós.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u60	I take the floor in the name of Convergence and Union. First of all, I would like to state that the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector could not be understood without referring to the other draft law that is also being debated today, which regulates the common administrative procedure of public administrations, and vice versa. Secondly, one bill and the other cannot be understood without reference to article 149.1.18 (a) of the Spanish Constitution. In this regard, I would like to give you a piece of advice: please, Minister, gentlemen of the Government, collect your knowledge in law and apply to subjects of constitutional and administrative law. Next, I turn to each of the bills. With regard to the law of the legal regime of the public sector, its purpose is, on the one hand, to regulate the bases of the legal regime of public administrations, the principles of the system of responsibility of public administrations and of the sanctioning power, and, on the other hand, to regulate the organization and functioning of the General Administration of the State and its institutional public sector for the development of its activities. The first question questions the basic character of the text itself, except for the preliminary title, in which, in nuances, it could be understood that basic character to be regulated by the State. The rest of the article lacks a basic character. The most important thing is the regulation of the General Administration of the State itself, which is totally different from the other public administrations, such as the autonomous or local ones, or bodies dependent on them. In this regard, the Constitutional Court, on the basis of judgment 130/2013, 6 has carried out a compendium of its own general doctrine on the scope and content of State jurisdiction on the basis of the legal regime of public administrations which should be recalled. I quote: '... both when the bases respond to the need to ensure a common treatment of those administered as well as to the achievement of other general interests, it must be remembered that 'the State, by establishing the common normative denominator that encloses the bases, and from which each autonomous community with legislative development powers can regulate the matter according to its peculiarities and interests..., cannot do so with such a degree of detail and in such a complete or complete way that it practically prevents the adoption by the autonomous communities of its own policies in this field by exercising its legislative development powers'. In addition, the judgement of the Constitutional Court 31/2010 also provides that the autonomous communities have the exclusive power to create, modify and suppress the organs, administrative units or entities that make up their respective administrations, so that they can freely form the organizational structure of their administrative apparatus, and the State must refrain from any intervention in this field. Well, clear examples of this, which should not be regulated or at least in such detail, are the closed regulation of the types of administrative agreements, the regulation of consortia or when the inventory of entities in the State, autonomous and local public sector is regulated, the administrative register attached to the General Administration of the State and a number of obligations are laid down for the autonomous communities and the inappropriate local administration. This regulation goes beyond the basic principles and rules of what is called the basis of a legal regime and notably invades autonomous competences, as well as violates the principle of local autonomy guaranteed by the European Charter. What is scandalous is regular in Title III, inter-administrative relations, a mixture of technical bodies and clearly political bodies. This bill should avoid, in its articulated, clearly political aspects, on a regular basis. From the latter I highlight the Conference of Presidents, which has a clear and unequivocally political role. If the president of a government is not able to speak with the presidents of the respective autonomous communities, from you to you, it is that there is a very serious problem, and this problem is solved not by law, but with courage and dialogue. The second point relates to the regulation of the General Administration of the State and its institutional public sector. There is talk of administrative simplification, but what the Government does in this bill is to create new structures of the General Administration of the State. We must warn the Government itself that there is an Organic Law on the Functioning of the General Administration of the State, the Lofage, as well as that they have recently approved the regulation of the staff of the General Administration of the State with another law. Well, once again this Government modifies and violates by ordinary law an organic law that regulates its own administration. Come in and see, gentlemen. How can the government carry out such bad legislative practice to regulate its own administration? Having an absolute majority does not give them the right to violate constitutional law. With regard to the draft law on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, as I have already said, it cannot be separated from the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector. It therefore proposes a comprehensive reform - the text says - of the organisation and functioning of administrations in order to improve relations between administrations and between administration and citizens. These two bills will therefore amend part of the fundamental pillars on which Spanish administrative law is based. The Constitutional Court has also taken a decision on what should be understood as a common administrative procedure for the purposes of Article 149.1.18 (a) of the Spanish Constitution. The Constitutional Court's Judgment 130/2013 on its basis 7 states: 'The adjective 'common' used by the constitutional precept implies that what the constituent has wished to reserve exclusively to the State is the determination of the principles or rules which, on the one hand, define the general structure of the procedural iter to be followed for the performance of the legal activity of the Administration and, on the other, prescribe the form of elaboration, the requirements of validity and effectiveness, the means of revision and the means of execution of administrative acts, including notably the general guarantees of individuals within the procedure'. Alongside these principles and rules of common administrative procedure, there are numerous special rules of procedure applicable to the conduct of each type of administrative activity on the basis of the subject matter. The Constitution does not reserve exclusively to the State the regulation of these special administrative procedures. Moreover - as the Constitutional Court notes - when the legislative competence on a matter has been attributed to the autonomous community, it also complies with the adoption of the rules of administrative procedure designed to implement them. This is also to give priority to the principle of proximity for the citizen, to have access to the nearest administration, to a more agile administration. The CORA report does not capture or take into account the principle of proximity, and it is a mistake. This is the debate, and not return the extraordinary pay to the officials, as the minister has done. This retribution should never have been denied. Stop paying one of your ministers' salaries in order to be able to pay public workers, for example, as the councillors of the Generalitat de Catalunya did before cutting civil servants' salaries. Take note. In conclusion, the explanatory statement of the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector points out that the drafting of these two laws would - I quote in text - be due to the need to provide our legal system with a systematic, coherent and orderly administrative right. This dual format recovers the traditional separation of regulatory rules from the organic aspects over those that regulate the procedures. This separation had been overcome by Law 30/1992 of 26 November. This will to split leads to partially regulate certain aspects or legal figures in both laws with different references that, far from clarifying the regulations and making them systematic, coherent and orderly - by using the same terms - hinders the overall understanding of some aspects of the regulation and appear multiple indeterminate legal concepts and can even seriously question the constitutional amparo used in each case. All of this implies the submission by the Convergence and Union Group of amendments to all of the two bills and their return to the Government for the following reasons. First, unnecessary and inconvenient division of the content laws in force in Law 30/1992 into two. This legislative strategy of division is not sufficiently justified. That is why it has been harshly criticized both by the Council of State and by the majority doctrine, as it does not correspond to a good legislative technique and is clearly detrimental to legal security, an endemic evil that characterizes the People's Party government. Secondly, both regulations go beyond the basic competences of the State and involve an impairment and limitation of exclusive autonomous or development and enforcement competences, as well as a violation of the principle of local autonomy. The Council of State has already highlighted this competitive invasion. Examples include the regulation of administrative agreements, consortia, and increased control over the autonomous or local public sector or the obligation to use electronic means. By the way - I make a point - they should first force Telefónica to provide the Internet to all the municipalities of the peninsula, even the smaller ones, because this company gets out in the easy expression of: it does not come out on account or is not profitable, in order not to provide the Internet to these municipalities. And then how is the government going to ask for this obligation? Doesn't the government know the municipal reality? Thirdly, these bills cannot impose uncompensated economic burdens on either the autonomous communities or local authorities for their implementation, such as mandatory forecasts for the implementation of electronic means. And fourth, both bills finally have a refocusing character. The legislator supports these measures in the proposals contained in the report on the reform of public administrations, which we call CORA. Error. I must warn you that the reports issued by CORA are not binding. Its character is programmatic. At no time can measures be applied that violate constitutional law. In motivating the bills, the Government may not be released under section 149.1, paragraphs 13(a), 14(a) or any other. It cannot be drained under the scope of the extension of horizontal competition titles. It cannot escape in this amparo to reinforce the role of the General Administration of the State in relations with the citizens, nor can it weaken institutionally the autonomous communities or the local administrations. Even worse, the Government cannot sink into this tactic to progressively subordinate the autonomous and local administration to the General Administration of the State. The principle laid down in the Spanish Constitution is not that there is a hierarchically superior administration than the others in terms of subordination, but that the Spanish Constitution makes a competitive division between them. Therefore, I repeat the advice: please, Minister, gentlemen of the Government, collect your knowledge in law and apply to subjects of constitutional and administrative law. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós, for your briefness. For the Socialist Group and in order to defend the amendments to the whole of the two projects, I have the floor José Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I must confess to you that you were not prepared to have, in the context of the discussion of these two projects, a debate such as that which you have given rise to on the public service. I have two arguments not to. First of all - I imagine you will recognize this - because I am fond of the public administration, and I think it is worth having specific debates about one of them. And secondly, because I have to deal with something that is very important and I have the time I have. Anyway, I can't stand it, because while I was talking, I remembered it. It was written 80 years ago, almost ninety: It is of primary interest for the Spaniards that the state should get the best engineers, the best doctors, the best lawyers, fighting them to the private industry and the liberal professions. Abolishing the Administration is not an acceptable criterion, because as long as it remains defective and incapable, no matter what the cost, it will be very expensive. This was written in the year twenty-one Manuel Azaña. [[Applauds]] I feel very identified in a two-way way, and it already serves me to start dealing with what brings me here. We must reduce public costs, no doubt, what we can reasonably do; the problem is to achieve it, and to do so, it may be the opposite. We must ensure that the Spanish administration, as fortunately we already have at hand, is never again defective and incapable, at least in its relations of providing fundamental services to citizens. Mr President, Minister, today's debate does not turn to bureaucratic matters and is not in the process, no; it takes two bills of extraordinary importance as their object. They have it because under the umbrella of seemingly neutral expressions: public sector, administration, administrative, both projects deal no more or less with how power is organized and how it is exercised, or how it should be exercised, and I mean the specific power, which affects citizens in their strictly daily lives. The history of these laws begins almost sixty years ago; its first manifestations: the Legal Regime Act of 1957 and the Administrative Procedure Act of 1958, assumed in full dictatorship the, albeit limited, first experience of solutions characteristic of the rule of law. It was laws, as Garcia de Enterria said years later, that faced the fight against the immunities of power by giving citizens concrete rights to the actions of the Administration. They were made possible by the efforts of a group of jurists, García de Enterría himself, López Rodó, Garrido Falla, González Pérez, Serrano Guirado, Alonso Olea, Ballvé or Clavero Arévalo, among the most outstanding, who, still young, designed the modern administrative law of our country. It's worth this particular tribute date. The correctness of his work is borne out by the fact that both laws born in full dictatorship and consequently stigmatized by this genetic circumstance, democracy was maintained without problems in force, unless the necessary adjustments were made to adapt them to the Constitution. Only in 1992 were they brought together in a single text, a text which nevertheless maintained the systematic and essential content of those thirty-five years earlier. This has enabled - and it is very important to underline this - the consolidation of a legal model whose extension over time has provided citizens with security, has shaped the actions of public employees who know it and apply it almost automatically, and has become natural among lawyers the use of a labor as unique but as popular as LRJPAC, that any stranger to our world is surprised. This current law of 1992 - which, by the way, has been adjusted over the last twenty-three years by governments of different signs, by their governments and also by ours - is the one that these two projects replace, not only to them, the operation includes the complete repeal of the Law on the organization and functioning of the State Administration, the famous Lofage, that of state agencies, that of electronic access of citizens to public services and to a large extent that of the Government, since it is given a new wording not less than nineteen of its twenty-nine articles, amen of partial derogations from other rules of law and also some with a regulatory status. On 13 June, an intense and very interesting working day was held at the INAP on the two projects we are discussing today, involving professors of public law and senior officials. Many things of interest were said there, some of which will be reflected in my words, but, for starters, they made it clear that they have not been counted with them to prepare both projects; they have not been counted with those who by their knowledge are the most qualified; they found out, according to one of the speakers, when it was published that a period of public information was opened. This may be the first and simplest explanation why the texts we examine are so full of systematic errors, contradictions, duplications and flaws that they are receiving strong criticism from those from the administration, communities, university or law professionals who approach them. It has also done so, and in what terms, the Council of State, has already been mentioned in detail a few minutes ago. What interests me is not so much the specific observations, I want to focus - because this is a procedure of totality - on the reasonings and the overall conclusions. The supreme advisory body devotes a large part of its preceptive opinions to setting out a substantive objection, it does not share, but rather combats the basic option taken by the proposing legislator, which is nothing other than breaking the unitary option of 1992 and presenting two different texts: one on the legal regime of the public sector and the other on the common administrative procedure of public administrations. As the minister has said, one towards within the administrations and their relations between them, another towards the outside, towards the citizens. The Council of State - I will use a somewhat strong expression - does not stop in bars, starts by stating that the current legislation that is now intended to change is in line with the regulatory scheme inaugurated in the 1950s and that, therefore, it is not true. This is what the Council of State says. It is not true the argument used by the Government - to return to the situation prior to 1992 - to justify its choice for two different texts. And he adds: although it would have been true, the systematic approach used by both legislative initiatives is not the most appropriate to modify the current administrative legal order and is certainly not in the current constitutional framework of the State of self-government. End of date. But in addition to saying it, it explains it and this has an interest. I quote again: the chosen systematic option raises a number of drawbacks that demonstrate the rigidity of the scheme followed and its inadequacy in order to achieve adequate regulation of the matter, as well as in certain specific aspects. Again, end of the date. Accordingly, with this starting point, the Council of State warns about the problems that the projects raise with regard to the management of the basic and non-basic rules on administrative organization and operation, with the regulation of certain key institutions of the legal system of public administrations and of the Government, with the so-called procedure for the elaboration of rules and provisions, with the treatment of matters which, in its view, should have presented a unitary consideration, with - here it emphasizes - the administrative bodies, with the civil responsibility of the administrations, with the sanctioning procedure and even with the so-called electronic administration, the rolling star of the new regulation. In particular, it states the same with regard to the dubious approach that has been followed to regulate these issues in one or other text and at times in both. If to all this I add that in the respective opinions there appear profusion expressions of the type - all go intercomiladas - high degree of confusion, dispersion of norms, difficult understanding, references and justified duplicities, intersection of basic and non-basic norms, excessive normative density, excessive and unjustified legalization of precepts of a clear regulatory nature, for example, the conclusion is served. I'm going to add two more ratings, one for each bill. The legal regime of the public sector - I quote again - does not represent a positive step forward - I repeat, does not represent a positive step forward - with regard to the existing rules on the organisation and functioning of public administrations. The common administrative procedure respects the core of the existing regulation contained in Law 30/1992 and in many cases mimetically transfers the provisions of Law 11/2007. The Council of State refers to the Law on the Computer Access of Citizens to Public Services. And he adds: even if some significant innovations are incorporated, the project has a substantially identical content to that of both laws, which leads to the question whether from a substantive point of view it would not have been preferable to introduce such innovations through the corresponding laws of partial modification. What has been said so far, the opinion of the Council of State, is clearly shared by my group and by the spokesman who is currently speaking on his behalf, but is affirmed by the Council of State and that everyone should recognize in these statements the authority which he considers appropriate. That being the case, it makes no sense to stop me from accepting or discussing new solutions to some issues. I do not even have time to state them, nor is this a reasonable argument in a whole amendment, but I do not resist mentioning some perplexities. Although progress is being made in the regulation of interest - I would miss more, Minister! - I very much respect the work of the people - I do not resist - I repeat - mentioning some perplexities. The electronic administration, I have already said, is the star of the common administrative procedure project. Again, I will not be the one to criticize this option, however much it may seem excessive its appointment on more than two hundred and thirty occasions in the joint, but some question arises immediately. Is it reasonable to bet exclusively on the most sophisticated electronic means of identification? Is it a regulation that makes the IT technical standard the determinant of the solution and not the guarantee principles for the citizen? The imposition of the administrative-citizen relationship by electronic means, has taken into account the reality of endowments - I think immediately of the 7,000 municipalities of less than 200 inhabitants, and I will say it from another perspective - for computer literacy of entities, families, SMEs and citizens? Didn't the rules on silence on administrative resources deserve to be adjusted, however small? How can the attribution of administrative powers to foundations and state societies be justified? The treatment of the so-called institutional administration is, in my opinion, an improvement, but neither will I, Minister, be the one who criticizes us for moving forward in the rationalization of a tree that has no longer become leafy, but has turned everything into a jungle, into a jungle in which it is difficult to orientate and in which it is also difficult to sustain what is useful and if it is worth preserving. By the way, since I'm talking about organisms, I'm curious. The CORA report - which I have read, followed and been in the presentation, etc. - criticises the little use that was made by the previous government of the figure of state public agencies. The statement is surprising because you have had three exercises banning, always with one exception, the creation of new agencies, and because the OECD - an organization that commissioned a report on public sector reform - welcomes them and trusts them as a very useful tool for changing our administrative culture. The procedure for the exercise of legislative initiative and the exercise of regulatory authority alters the essence of powers that the Constitution expressly and directly grants to the Government. They alter it because this constitutional power and function remains in the Government's project subordinated and subordinated to the performance of the administrative apparatus. Again, Council of State dixit: It is not acceptable in his words that the legislative initiative should be reduced to a mere set of administrative procedures as is deduced from the draft. And I add that it does not seem that the procedure designed corresponds or does not fit well with which it is intended to apply - one of my predecessors in the rostrum have highlighted it - to these projects here. What about the novelty that laws imposing new obligations on natural or legal persons engaged in an economic or professional activity will come into force on 2 January or 1 July of each year? This is a novelty, of course, but the question is: and how do we justify it? Would it not be more reasonable to accept that the laws that incorporate - some, because all the laws are not dedicated to imposing obligations - a precept that imposes a new public obligation, resorts to the institution of vacatio legis in relation to that article and the rest of the law comes into force immediately? If we all do the laws! We make them all because we feel the need to do them because if we weren't irresponsible and foolish. It is true that from this caution of 2 January and 1 July you exclude - as could not be less - the decrees laws. They will therefore have no problems as long as they remain in the Government with their preferred recourse. To date - to this day - the decrees laws account for 35% of its total regulatory production with a legal rank in three and a half years; 35%. Minister, as you and I have a long memory, I remember a famous monitoring session - you were also here - in which today the President of the Government finished the presentation of seven lessons learned from the exercise of the previous Government, referring to one, to the seventh. The seventh lesson that leaves us, Mr President - Mr Rajoy said - is that we cannot govern by decree-law alone, as we have been doing in recent months. [[Applauds]] What about the obligation of public administrations to draw up an annual regulatory plan containing the legislative or regulatory initiatives they wish to adopt the following year? How would this design fit into a practice that has led them, for example, to dictate more than twenty rules with a law rank on energy in the last three and a half years? How to deal with river laws that are multiplying? What about the imposition of these specific obligations on the Autonomous Communities? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I said that the regulation before us deals with how power is exercised. They are entitled to do so in accordance with their postulates, as they are the legitimate Government in office. But that right is weakened until it almost disappears, when they intend to exercise it at the final stage - I would almost say agonistic - of the legislature. Taking this initiative, subjecting it to a procedure that requires exorbitant authorizations of the activity of the chambers and that will still have to go through horsenails, makes impossible, in real terms, the serene debate on how and why of their innovations and blurs the possibility of a consensus that should be a shared objective, since it is two structuring and structural projects on the organization and functioning of the administrations. These circumstances which are difficult for us to overcome - I have deep respect for the institutions - do not mean that they delegitimise, but I say that they are extremely impoverishable, especially if we consider that they have had three and a half years to bring these texts here, and now they claim that the Congress of Deputies will resolve it, when they have been sent just over four months before the foreseeable date of dissolution of the chambers - predictable, I am not saying anything excessive - and when we are announced that the deadline for amendments to the joint text will be inexorably closed next Tuesday. Moreover, in doing so, they are completely irresponsible for their effective start-up. There's that!, they come to tell the new government, to which it takes possession at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u63	Mr. Serrano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u64	One minute, Mr. President. It may be yours again, no doubt, but you will also have to accept me that it may be another, even ours. Mr President, the two drafts which are the subject of our refund amendment - which we therefore maintain here - and for which we seek the support of the House, provide for their entry into force in the year of their publication in the OEB, and grant an additional year from that entry into force in order to bring into line with these laws the state, autonomous or local rules which are incompatible with them. In principle, if we were in normal circumstances, I would tell you that it seems like a reasonable forecast. But known to this prolonged vacatio legis, only the desire to leave its mark also in this sector can explain its commitment to bring forward laws on these dates of high technical complexity, with real doubts about the constitutionality of some of its forecasts and that they will require effort and investment. If you persevere in your purpose it will reach all its value and all its meaning what in the meeting of the INAP, to which I referred at the beginning, pointed out one of the rapporteurs who stated that, in fact, what he liked most about both laws was its entry into force clause, because it will allow them to be repealed without suffering from legal certainty. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Position-fixing turn. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, given your encyclopedic conception of life, you are able to present us from a tax rule to a macro-economic rule or rules of as strict a legal profile as the two that you have presented to us today. [[The lady]] Mr Serrano, if you are so kind, perhaps we can have this debate in the Commission later; the three of us, since the three of us are concerned by the two rules. Minister, I was telling you that I find your presentation interesting although it is conceptually confusing and I will tell you why. You have begun it by greatly elevating the scholarly and intellectual tone of the debate, justifying the very existence of the State from a kelsenian perspective. I do not know if you were aware that you were using Kelsen's own concepts legitimizing the existence of the State - although you have done so with more disorder than Professor Kelsen -: the legitimate monopoly of violence and the promotion of certain economic activities and social benefits. It seems good to us, but after the sinuous passage of the rest of his exhibition - somewhat disordered at times and which has constituted a kind of glossary of everything done by his ministry throughout the legislature, speaking of all sorts of things through a miscellany very difficult to synthesize intellectually in a process of these characteristics and in a short space of time; moreover, I have been lucky that the president uses it and manages it more rigorously than the president who has abandoned us at this time -, I have to say that we come to the conclusion that what she intends at the end is to affirm two things that conceptually support these two bills. First of all, it wants to make them a kind of police in the dual etymological dimension of the expression: fiscal police, in order to manage and control those public administrations, whatever their dimension or nature - local, general, autonomous and institutional - that do not meet the requirements of stability, spending ceiling or indebtedness; and police from the strictest, etymologically speaking, perspective of public order, as long as you attribute yourselves without constitutional legitimacy for this the possibility of dissolving the non-compliance administrations. You have explained to us here two projects children of the CORA, a very fruitful and fertile institution; so fruitful and so fertile when it comes to producing legal and lethal rules for the autonomous configuration of the State. By way of a glossary, Minister, I will indicate to you only the precepts of the Statute of Guernica that violate these two draft laws: Article 10.2, concerning the organization, regime and functioning of the institutions of self-government, by way of the over-dimension of the concept of basic precepts that you incorporate into the two draft laws; Article 10.4, the statute of the officials of the Basque Country and of the local administration; Article 10.6, procedural rules of the administrative procedure that derive from the substantive and organizational law of the Basque Country - by means of the over-dimension of what constitutes the legal nature of a common administrative procedure, do not recognize that there are special administrative procedures; you abduct them into the common administrative procedure preventing the exercise of normative functions that belong to the autonomous communities, which may create not only common administrative procedures for their exclusive competences, but also special ones for their competences; Article 10.24, the public sector of the Basque Country; Article 10.37, the statistics of the Basque Country; Article 11.1b, the contracts and concessions of the administrative authorities in Basque Country; Article 12.7, the public sector. All that with what legitimation? With only an apparent and formal legitimation - it has already been said by the spokesman of the Group of Convergence i Unió, and Mr Serrano, who has preceded me in the use of the word and who has illustrated us with his characteristic faundia -, without any constitutional legitimation, because article 149.1.18.a does not allow the legal operations that are undertaken through these two bills. What are the competences with regard to the determination of the bases when the State is competent only for the determination of the bases and not for their development - competences that are glossed over by a judgment that has already been cited here, judgment 130/2013 and many previous judgments - are already established. It is very strict, it is very consolidated and it is very stable the constitutional jurisprudence in this matter, and you are not regulating basic precepts - you are regulating at such a level of detail that it has come to be reproached by the Council of State, a level of practically regulatory detail - not even regulating rules of formal legal status of laws or even rules of a regulatory nature; it is a reproach of the Council of State, Minister. From the perspective of our parliamentary group, this precludes any possibility of not voting on the full amendments tabled and of course of not trying to seek elements or mechanisms of dialogue with your Government in order to try to repair the damage that would be irreparable if the two bills were adopted without the acceptance of amendments, on which Mr Serrano has already presented the difficulties with which we find ourselves, since Tuesday is the last day for their submission. I imagine that we will have to discuss this through the presentations to the use of two minutes of duration, commissions to the use of five minutes of duration and without notice to plenary. This is the way to legislate, along with the perversion consisting in the abuse of the royal decree-law, and so we will have to pass laws as important as those on which Professor Kelsen would say that the instrument of the State - which you have glossed with so much facundia, with so much illustration - is the ad intra configuration of the public administration itself and ad extra, which is for its connection with citizens. We are not willing - if I may say so, I am going to say a much more aggressive expression than that used by Mr Serrano, who seemed to him that 'without standing in bars' was - to consent to this legal felony - understand me, it is not a matter of making a personal reflection on his person, to whom he knows that I appreciate and admire in some aspects of his professional activity, although not in all, in this one that we are glossing at this moment a little less. From that perspective, let us hope that this felony will not be committed. All that has already been said - these two laws were one, Law 30/1992 has been broken down into two aspects - as when the Council of State itself stated that it was already metabolized by legal operators, by the world of law, to the existence of a single law regulating both matters and that what is now disturbing and legally insecure - it was equally disturbing in its day to unite them, in 1992 - is to separate them, because already the interactions generated between them in their application and in the practice of the courts make it much more worrying to separate them than to keep them united. As for the state bases, it has been said not only by the particular vote of a person, Enrique Lucas - a dear friend -, member of the General Council of the Judiciary, but also by the Council of State: you are absolutely in excess of things as important as the use of public sector speech, which is not public administration - which is much broader than the concept of public administration. With the replacement of the public sector by the public administration we are not talking about administrative bodies, we are talking about foundations, consortia, statutory bodies and all kinds of organizations of a legal-public nature through an unorthodox extension of the possibilities of action since their administration; not from the competent, autonomous, out-of-town or local administrations to which they are expropriating the competences for these reasons and under the precepts that I have been quoting, Minister. On the other hand, the Council of State says that in the area of inter-administrative agreements, consortia, the use of electronic means, the strengthening of the figure of the delegate of the Government, which is what we had to do at the end of this parliamentary term, a further strengthening of the figure of the delegate of the Government is what makes it impossible to validate - and I honestly say this to you, I am regretting that my group has not also tabled an amendment of all this - a law of this nature, which also imposes by mandatory rules elements that generate important and non-specific expenditure and disbursements who has to carry them out. You impose the existence of unique electronic records, unique electronic files, unique electronic seizure records, but who will pay?, who will pay? You, so rigorous in identifying the spending elements of the bills, at this time have relaxed, from a perspective worthy of better cause. Perhaps it is because we are talking about administrative law and constitutional law and not tax law. We're going to burden this relaxation with this matter. Finally, they are even criticized by the Council of State and by the scientific doctrine that are incorporating subjects into these two inappropriate bills. They are not proper to regulate by a bill of these characteristics, in particular those relating to the State's patrimonial responsibility, whose regulation must be systematically placed in a norm different from the two that we are analysing, nor those relating to the sanctioning powers of the State, which must also be placed in norms different from those that we are carrying out, because they refer to actions that link or emanate from acts of the Administration's own. Here we are regulating the subjects that you and I have commented on. You've finished your speech by quoting Larra. Larra consecrated that well-known expression of 'you come back tomorrow'. We do not have to come back tomorrow, we have to come back next Tuesday, which is the deadline that we have been given so generously to table amendments. I will end by asking you for a favor, from the perspective of antiquity and friendship that unite us after so many years of fighting, from different benches, for different bills of different nature. Come back tomorrow with the duties well done, from the point of view of the requirements of the constitutional bloc, and then you will be able to find us. But if tomorrow or Tuesday you are going to come back with these two virgin, immutable, untouchable bills, like everything that emerges and comes out of the CORA, you will not be able to count on our consensus, because we are going to try to fight democratically but with all the energy that we are capable of. We look forward to much from your negotiating spirit. I have told you that you have done a very sinuous reflection on everything that has happened in this legislature. At times, we have met and you have had a position very conducive to consensus and, at other times, very unfriendly to consensus.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u67	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u68	Yeah. We hope - it is only a manifestation of hope - that, in this case, it will be conducive to consensus, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u69	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to stick to the amendments to the whole that have been brought to the debate on two bills which are, as has already been pointed out by the minister and by all those who have spoken before me, of intrinsic importance, since they affect not only the organizational structure, functioning and ad intra and ad extra relations of the Administration, but also the very reality of the State - any State is nothing without the Administration that supports it - and, of course, in this case, all the Spaniards. The position of our group on matters relating to public administrations is fairly consolidated during the last two legislatures in which we participate. Firstly, we have always maintained the need to eliminate superfluous organisms, organisms which no longer play any useful role for citizens but which, however, are still probably maintained for reasons other than public utility, as is the case with provincial parliaments, we have said as active and passive. It is also a consolidated programmatic position of our group the elimination of organic duplications - many of the defenders of the people, are called as they are called; observatories; institutes -, that the only thing they do is to disperse responsibility in the care of the administered, the Spanish, the citizens, and to overload the public burdens. Likewise, our party's programmatic position is the demand for rationalization, efficiency and efficiency in the functioning of public administrations and public bodies. We have not been very successful so far in having these programmatic positions taken over by successive parties in the governments of the last legislatures. UPyD has maintained this programmatic position because we have always considered that the Administration is at the service of the citizens, who are the ones who pay for it, who nourish it from the point of view of human resources, and that therefore it is not the citizens who have to be at the service of the Administration. Curiously this kind of argument has now been used, both by the government - by the minister - and by the opposition parties, especially the main opposition party. We have always defended it, so we have been so ignored when we made those programmatic demands to which I referred. Our parliamentary group will therefore support any opportunity we have to improve legislatively the relations between the public administration and citizens. In order to check that the draft laws that are brought to us are very much improved, it is sufficient for a first reading, not very profound, but precisely why our parliamentary group wants to contribute to improving them through their processing and the amendments that we propose, and for which presentation certainly - and I agree with Mr Olabarria - we have been given too short a time limit. In any case, and for the same reason, we are also going to abstain on the amendments as a whole, and here are a number of arguments which I will try to answer by explaining the position of our group. Firstly, common arguments for the various amendments as a whole. One of them is that what is now presented as two laws should remain consolidated into a single law, as was done with 30/1992, of 26 November. We believe that this could be a desirable reason, but the truth is that in the trajectory of administrative regulation in our country we have the two models: the model before 1992, which was with two laws, and the current model, which is with one law. We may find it more desirable to have done the reform with a single law, but we do not sincerely consider that to be a cause for neglecting the opportunity to improve what is presented to us. The proof that the two separate bills before us could go together is that their consideration here is being done together for the two; we are being given a little more time, but we are talking about the amendments to the whole of them. Another common argument to all amendments to the whole is that the exclusive competence established by article 149.1.18 (a) of the Constitution is exceeded. We can consider that part of the articulation of these draft laws are so overly thorough in the regulation that they may exceed the basic regulation that is established as exclusive competence in that article of the Constitution, but what cannot be done, as the amendment of the Plural Left points out, that is, in the same text that the draft law does not introduce substantial changes, and page and half after the entire administrative procedure is fully regulated. One of two, or major changes are introduced and that is why the amendment to the whole is justified, or there are no major changes and then we should go to the processing. More interesting is one of the arguments put forward by the Socialist Party, because the importance of these laws and the shortness of the debate period, which would require greater reflection, consensus, etc., has been discussed - and has also been gathered by other groups. Lords of the Socialist Party, you are hostage to your own actions, because you, together with the People's Party, with nocturnality and without considering the rest of the parliamentary groups, have changed Article 135 of the Constitution at once and irreversibly. Let us not now say that these very important laws are presented in a short period of time. That could be said by us, the party I represent, who were against that procedure which you used; perhaps some other parliamentary groups could say that, but certainly not by the Socialist Party. [[The Lord]] We consider it politically inappropriate to proceed at the end of the legislature, but by that rule of three we should all go on vacation, because, what more bills should we deal with? Bills remain to be dealt with, but if the argument is that as we are finishing the legislature we are not going to deal with the projects that have been brought to us, let's all go home. That's not serious, it's not responsible, even more so coming from a party that changed the Constitution so abruptly. Of course, we agree with you that this requires more debate and reflection, because they are fundamental laws in life, in functioning, in the existence of Spanish citizens and the Spanish State. That is why we invite the Socialist Party - which is presenting one of the amendments to the whole - but also the People's Party, which is ruling, not to use the perverse dynamics to which we are witnessing the bill after the bill. Let us take the time we have to discuss amendments, amend and improve the drafts that are brought to us, so that we do not have an absolute majority on the one hand to prevent any amendment that can improve the text, but that, on the other hand, we are not systematically brought amendments to the whole, no matter what bill, knowing a priori that it will be taken down by the absolute majority of the Government; it is a toast to the sun. Let us do the serious work that has been demanded of us by the citizens when we have been put in this House. With regard to the amendment by the Group of the Plural Left, it is clear that we share the need for both bills to improve the guarantees and rights of citizens in the face of possible abuses and abuses by administrations. That is why we need to make amendments. Instead, we openly disagree that public administrations that have to manage the general interest should remain permanently, as you do in your amendment, under the suspicion that their performance is usually abusive, simply because it is an unequal relationship between administration and administration. For example, you in your text of the amendment to the whole say: Does it make sense for the administration to sanction or should it go to the judge? The answer is quite simple: both options, each within its field; sanctions in the area of the exercise of administrative powers, and judges in the area of the exercise of judicial power. Moreover, everyone who knows, not much, of administrative law will understand that this latter area, the judicial one, is precisely the last guarantee for when, in the exercise of the administrative power of sanction, an abuse is committed with the citizen. Then, what's that kind of question coming to? It cannot be said, as is done in this amendment to the whole, that the first additional provision of the draft law on common administrative procedure and public administrations - I quote textual - preserves and prolongs the difference in certain procedures outside the common sphere. And he adds: It is the greatest proof that the bill goes beyond the basics. Indeed, the first additional provision recognizes that, for thematic, competitive reasons, there are special procedures - and they are clearly mentioned - that have to do with the tax system, the asylum and alien regime or the social security system. Indeed, because of the subject matter, they are special regimes that generate special laws, with special administrative procedures, which are not collected in the common sphere. Is it to recognize that these special administrative and regulatory areas exist to project the Administrative Procedure Act in an abusive manner? I do not think so, that it is simply demarcating the areas of application of both laws. The opportunity to clarify that this is a complaint - another of the references made in this amendment as a whole - is being missed. No; Article 62 is clearly regulated. I conclude, and I end with a reference - by the way, I don't know if I should argue it about Convergence or about Union, because some are a little more independent and others a little less - which has to do with how you pervert the lexicon and argumentation in your own amendment to the whole. For example, I quote textually: Overstep the limits of state competition and unlawfully condition autonomous competences. Ilegitimate or illegal? Because it is not the same, for legitimacy is given by popular sovereignty and legality is established by institutions. They confuse common regulation with deprivation or limitation of autonomous powers or competences...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u71	Mr. Calduch, you'd better finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u72	I'm done. ... simply because you always start from a false premise, and it is that the powers and powers belong to the autonomous communities, and all that the General Administration of the State or the Government does is to gradually snatch from them something that they possess intrinsically. Exactly what the Constitution says is the opposite. That is a lesson in constitutional law, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Martín-Toledano spoke first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector together with the common administrative procedure and the law on transparency and good governance and the law on budgetary stability will form the essential foundations of the public administration of the future, efficient, efficient, agile, transparent, economically sustainable public administrations, and above all focused on the service of citizens; a reform supported by top-level, highly qualified public employees, such as those forming the whole of the Spanish civil service, who are guarantors of the proper functioning of the legality and impartiality of public administrations. I have heard the representative of the Socialist Group speak about public officials and employees. I would like to remind you of the 7% reduction in your salary when Mr Rodríguez Zapatero ruled. And this great reform of the Administration is the one that has been presented today with great accuracy and in detail by Minister Montoro, a reform that arises from a rigorous and well-founded study that resulted in the CORA report, a process that has the full support of the OECD, and that has generated significant benefits as a result of the measures adopted: a savings of more than 20.2 billion euros, the abolition of 2,194 unnecessary public entities and the signing of 292 agreements to avoid duplicities. No more disqualifications, deceptions and lies. In view of this, you, Mr Amendmenters, should congratulate the Government. The amendments to all the groups in the Plural, CiU and Socialist Left have something in common: they continue to be an unbelieving attempt to discredit the bill and at the same time all the administrative reforms of the Government. We regret that they are faced with the favourable opinion of the OECD and other international bodies. There is every indication that they are doing so solely out of partisan interest, for a government's strategy of wear and tear. The amending groups turn to the same topics of the left and of the usual nationalism, to the clichés formed at the beginning of the legislature and to those who are unwilling to give up, despite the reality, which leaves them without arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a bill to invade powers, it is not a re-centralising strategy. You consider any rule that attempts to give coherence, clarify or simplify, an attack on the autonomy of communities. Abandon already your old identitarian ghosts, which do not allow you to see clearly the reality. On the contrary, the basic rules that are included in the draft for all administrations are based on strong competition, and - contrary to what you say - this is confirmed by the opinion of the Council of State, which literally says that the considerations contained in this opinion cannot be understood as an opposition to this administrative reform. I do not say that, says the Council of State, and we can reaffirm it more strongly following the changes made to the preliminary draft on the recommendation of this high body. Some groups should be aware of what all sociological studies reflect, and it is that Spanish citizens, by a very large majority, want public administrations and institutions to be effective, transparent and agile, and they do not care who has the competence to perform the services, they do not care that their problems are solved. These surveys also reflect that citizens are concerned about the inequalities caused by the management of some services by autonomous groups among Spaniards. They are tired, literally tired, of the permanent dialectics of confrontation generated by nationalism, which only produces frustration and inefficiency. This bill addresses the need to provide our legal system with a systematic, coherent and orderly administrative right and to the service of citizens, always at the service of citizens. In short, we are responding to a widespread demand from Spanish public opinion: to undertake the in-depth reform of public administrations. They are calling for this, and today we are fulfilling our duty: to respond to the needs of the citizens and to provide them with administrative structures at their service, at the service of society, and not at the service of the structures themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with two bills that strengthen this role of civil service administrations, more agile administrations, better managed administrations, good quality services administrations. And as I said during my speech, citizens do not care who manages, who has the competence. What they want is effectiveness, and what they don't want is that the basic services that many autonomous communities are providing can cause them dysfunctions in their delivery, in education, health and social services. They want to be effective and they are demanding it from the government and this Parliament. We therefore meet today the objective of satisfying what all citizens demand, and which is contemplated and reflected in all the sociological studies that are being carried out today in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Martin-Toledano. Mr Matarí has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of public administration is, as the Minister explained this morning, one of the most important reforms of this parliamentary term. It has been a comprehensive reform that concerns the culture and functioning of the Administration, a reform to ensure budgetary stability, to improve the efficiency of the Administration and to advance transparency and regeneration. Most importantly, a reform to facilitate the administration's relations with citizens and businesses. It is to this end that this project will enable a more agile administration, with fewer administrative burdens and more rights for citizens. To achieve this, mandatory procedures have been eliminated so far. For example, the submission of original documents will not be generally required. It will not be necessary to submit documents which have already been submitted to any public administration. It will not be necessary to provide documents which have been prepared by the administrations themselves and certain procedures are now initiated on their own initiative. It seems like small things, but we all know how much time they make us waste and the economic cost of coming back tomorrow, going from window to window to do a procedure that in pure logic has to be solved by the Administration itself. And from these bills this will be so. It also facilitates and simplifies the way some procedures are carried out. For example, an electronic register is opened so that twenty-four hours a day, three hundred and sixty-five days a year, the citizen can submit any writing. Face-to-face or electronic seizures may be made at no cost. [[Rumors]] To some group it seems wrong for companies to take over simply by entering a website for a person to perform procedures on their behalf, such as, for example, submitting applications, obtaining commercial licenses, attending the bidding of a public contract or submitting administrative remedies against sanctions... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u77	I'm sorry, Mr. Congressman. Please attend to the honourable Member who is speaking. He's already the last to intervene. Follow you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u78	A 30-day express administrative procedure is envisaged to enable agility and cost reduction. New measures are put in place to ensure the knowledge and effectiveness of notifications. And new citizens' rights are incorporated. Some examples. The relationship with the Administration via the Internet will become the usual one, and to facilitate it, as the Minister explained, the necessary assistance is provided, and of course citizens who do not have the Internet or do not want to access it, will be able to do so by traditional means. The registry assistance office is established to enable citizens to submit their documents face-to-face to these offices. The right to consult information on their files at the general electronic access point of the Administration is set out. Claims prior to the civil or labour process are eliminated. The reduction in the amount of sanctions, which already applies for example in the tax area, in the area of social security or in the area of trafficking, is widespread in all procedures, and the hearing of interested parties is guaranteed in all procedures for drawing up rules affecting them. More legal certainty, more transparency and more citizen participation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this project now comes because it was necessary to tackle the whole range of measures that have developed over the years and that Mr Montoro has explained, and also comes after a careful and worked elaboration, having been widely informed by autonomous communities, local entities, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Agency for Data Protection and also the Council of State, as well as associations and individuals of all kinds. You must know, ladies and gentlemen, that the changes introduced in the preliminary draft which the Council of Ministers met there in January are precisely the result of the comments received, following the process of public information and the previous reports, especially from the Council of State. We now have parliamentary procedure, a normal parliamentary procedure, because, as I know, no urgent procedure has been authorised; this project entered the House on 11 May, it was published on 18, and we are in the fourth extension of the deadline for amendments, Mr Olabarria, so I do not see where the criticism of the parliamentary procedure for these projects is. With regard to the opinion of the Council of State to which your honourable Members have referred, I would like to say that no essential substantive comments have been made by the Council of State, unless it is considered that the observation that, instead of a draft law, there are two drafts is a substantive one; we believe that this is a technical one. In addition, the essential observations of the Council of State have been addressed and incorporated into the bill, and there are many examples of this. Other arguments that have been used by different spokespersons are also not justified, ladies and gentlemen. The increase in expenditure that may result from the implementation of some of the measures is largely offset by the savings that will be made for the administration and for the citizens, and in addition, in the case of autonomous communities and local entities, the State makes available to you free of charge all its platforms and systems, and you know it perfectly well. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has no centralising intention, beyond what it means to have a single, systematic law governing relations with citizens and businesses, through a common procedure for all public administrations and for all Spanish citizens, live where they live. With the projects that we are debating today and with everything we have done over the years, and which Mr Montoro has explained in his speech, I insist, our Administration will be more efficient and fully electronic; legal certainty and regulatory quality will be much greater; administrative procedures will be more agile and more economical, and transparency in the functioning of the Administration will be total. And I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that all this will be possible unless the Socialist Party wins the elections and returns to the government, because it has already announced to us its spokesman this morning the immediate repeal of these laws before they come into force. Ladies and gentlemen - I finish, Mr President - during this parliamentary term we have embarked on a reform which has been demanded by the citizens and which has been pending for many years. Citizens demand a government with fewer obstacles, fewer burdens, less bureaucracy, more facilities and better services, and they also rightly demand more information, more transparency, more control and better practices. I believe that the bills presented to us by the minister this morning and all the reforms and measures adopted in recent years are largely able to meet the demands of citizens, and we will soon have a better administration adapted to modern times. To achieve this we have in Spain a good Administration and a highly professional public employees and a great vocation of service, which are the basis of the good functioning of the Administration, and which have responded these years in solidarity when the difficult circumstances through which Spain has gone through have required it. It is fair to acknowledge this and we do so once again from the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí. In two minutes we'll start voting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u80	Motion by the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Enbeita, on the Government's position on the crisis situation and the specific way in which it affects women. There is a compromise amendment by Mrs Enbeita with the Socialist Group and the Plural Left, and that is the compromise that we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 117 against, 173 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u81	It's rejected. - OF IU'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON THE NEED FOR A PARLIAMENTAL DEBATE ON POLITICAL CORRUPTION CASES DURING THIS LEGISLATION AND THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULARS IN THE LAST 20 YEARS. [[File number 173/000224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u82	The Plural Left motion on the need to hold a parliamentary debate on cases of political corruption known during the current legislature and the financing of political parties over the past 20 years. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 121 against, 172 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u83	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u84	Vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Firstly, we voted on the following two issues: the Convention between the Kingdom of Spain and the Principality of Andorra to avoid double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and its Protocol, and the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the European Union's own resources system. These two agreements are jointly voted on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 286 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u85	They are approved. - AGREEMENT ON PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES OF THE INTERNATIONAL RENEWABLE ENERGY AGENCY, DONE IN ABU DABI ON 13 JANUARY 2014, WITH A RESERVE AND DECLARATION. [[IRENA]] [[File number 110/000168]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN TIRANA ON 17 FEBRUARY 2015. [[File number 110/000169]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND URANIA FOR THE RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN KIEV ON 10 FEBRUARY 2015. [[File number 110/000170]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE ON NEW TUESDAY, 4 MARCH 2015. [[File number 110/000171]] - PROTOCOL ON THE ACCESSION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION TO THE CONVENTION OF 16 DECEMBER 1988 ON THE CONSTRUCTION AND EXPLOITATION OF A EUROPEAN SYNCROTRORONIC RADIATION INSTALLATION, DONE IN GRENOBLE ON 23 JUNE 2014 AND IN PARISH ON 15 JULY 2014. [[File number 110/000172]] - AGREEMENT ON THE TRANSFER AND MUTUALIZATION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SINGLE RESOLUTION FUND, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 21 MAY 2014. [[File number 110/000174]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND GEORGIA ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF FIGHT AGAINST CRIMINATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 21 JANUARY 2015. [[File number 110/00175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u86	With regard to the seven outstanding conventions, I propose to the plenary that they be adopted by consent. [[Consent]] They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u87	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law on the railway sector, tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández and Mrs Jordà, the Basque Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left and the Socialist Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] They are returned and we vote together. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 122 against, 186 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u88	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u89	The House has called for the final deliberation and vote of this draft and this is what we are voting on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 142 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u90	You won't be called to full court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u91	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector, submitted by the parliamentary groups of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Catalan of Convergence and Union, and Socialist. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 133 against, 174 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u92	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u93	We now vote in favour of the request for acknowledgment by the plenary of this bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 141 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u94	You won't be called to full court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u95	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law on the common administrative procedure for public administrations, submitted by the groups of La Izquierda Plural, Catalan de Convergence and Unito y Socialista. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 135 against 174; abstentions 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u96	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u97	Notice by the plenary of the Chamber of the deliberation of this bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 139 against 172.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u98	You won't be called to full court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u99	Request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on working and participating societies, which has been submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 139 against 173 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u100	You won't be called to full court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u101	Request for a ruling, also from the Socialist Group, by the plenary of the House on the deliberation and final vote of the draft law amending and updating self-employment legislation and adopting measures to promote and promote self-employment and the social economy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 141 against, 171 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-25-CD150625.u102	You won't be called to full court. The meeting rose. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
