ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u1	The meeting was called to order. This Presidency should inform the plenary that a letter has been received from the Presidency of the Parliament of Catalonia requesting the postponement of the debate on the proposal for a law amending the Organic Law on Judicial Power and other related rules, and should therefore be excluded from the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u2	We begin with the consideration of the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of Progressive Union and Democracy, organic on transparency and rationalization of the retributive system of the members of the Government, the senior officials of the General Administration of the State and the other elected public officials. For the presentation of this initiative, Mrs Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u3	Thank you very much, President. We are submitting to debate and consideration by the House, as the President has pointed out, a proposal for an organic law aimed at establishing a system of remuneration for elected public offices and for those public offices which have been designated by those who have in turn been elected by the citizens. I am sure that we all share - I sincerely say this, I do not say this as a purely dialectical issue - the objective of prioritizing and making public wages transparent. It seems to me that it is an objective shared by the House and an objective, if I may say so, of first democracy: that elected posts should have salaries that are known to citizens, that are therefore transparent; that there should be a hierarchy of those public salaries, that is, that those who have constitutionally assigned more responsibilities should have a higher remuneration than those who have less attribution of constitutional responsibility, and that all those salaries should be transparent, accessible to all citizens, that in a simple way and with a look they should be able to see exactly what the situation of the public salaries of all political leaders is. A system of remuneration for elective public office, as well as for positions of free designation in the senior and managerial organs of the General Administration of the State, is a matter of great relevance in any democratic system and should be regulated in a fair, transparent and rational manner. This is not the first time that we have put this issue before the House. In 2012, through a non-legislative proposal, this spokesman who spoke to them dealt with this same matter, without any success at the time of the vote, but it was a reflection, as I said at the beginning, and I do not want to be naive, shared by the vast majority of the House. A non-legislative proposal similar to this was also submitted to the Madrid Assembly for the same purpose, and it was also not successful when it was adopted. But the objective, if we do not share it, should be shared by all: that whoever has the most responsibilities attributed to him has the highest of the wages and whoever has the least has, therefore, the lowest salary; so that we do not find ourselves in a situation like the current one, in which the President of the Government of Spain is in position number 264 of the list of remunerations for elected posts; that is, there are 263 political officials, managers of public enterprises, officials, mayors or councillors who have a remuneration far above that of the President of the Government. Now is not the time - we are taking this into consideration - to discuss the remuneration that the President of the Government of Spain has to have and that of all the others, from the top down. At some point we will have to address it, and we will have to do so with absolute transparency and by putting their wages, that of all, in relation to the economic situation of the country and to the salaries of the State Administration, with the salaries of the officials that we ourselves have established. The situation of hierarchy that exists in the public administration I would say is very remarkable and very positive, but we have not been able to establish an equal hierarchy of logic and equal reasonableness for all public wages. This situation cannot be maintained. We must establish this hierarchy, this rationalization, and, at the same time, we must establish a strict regime of incompatibilities, a transparent system of perceptions that avoids from any point of view, because it prohibits it, any kind of bonus and therefore allows all citizens to know at all times what the situation of elected and public positions is. In view of the lack of legal regulation at national level on the subject, as I said at the outset, remunerations currently create differences that are not rational and incomprehensible to the citizen. He was able to find out through the new website for transparency, but it is irrational and incomprehensible. On this recently opened page of transparency of the Government we find, for example, that the president of the State Society of Industrial Participations earns a little less than the salary that the head of state has established himself. The Head of State, to which the salary has recently been reduced by 20 % or 30 %, has established for himself a salary slightly higher than that of the President of SEPI. I do not think that the president of SEPI wins much or little - that is an issue that we would have to discuss - but what I do not think reasonable is that he wins almost four times as much as the president of the government of the nation. It seems to me to be an absolutely irrational thing. As I told you at the beginning, the President of the Government is currently in position 264, but in front of him is not only the President of SEPI; there are the Mayor of Barcelona, the Mayor of Zaragoza, the Mayor of Madrid, the Mayor of Alcalá de Henares, the Mayor of Alcobendas, the Mayor of Las Rozas, the Mayor of Pozuelo de Alarcón, the Mayor of Leganes and many councillors of many of these municipalities. At some point we will have to establish among all how much you have to earn the first one to establish also how much you have to earn the last one. We will have to establish it among all of us and it will not be logical - because it is not logical for anyone - that this situation should remain for longer, because it is not only those organs. If we look at other constitutional bodies, we can see that identical dysfunctions occur - according to the General Budgets of the State - for example, with the vowel of the General Council of the Judiciary, which earns about 40% more than the President of the Government, or with its President who earns about 45% more than the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the salaries of representatives or political positions have to be attractive enough to attract talent to the public service and thus to appreciate the important work of the public representatives, but it is also true that they must be required by the necessary diligence and professionalism and, above all, the maximum transparency and the adequacy of their salaries to the overall economic situation of the country, giving in themselves an example of the efforts and deprivations that are required of those who are administered. On the other hand, we are also not asking them in this legislative initiative something completely anomalous if we look at what is happening in our environment, in the European countries. In the countries around us, they have a national law. To cite only three examples, there is a national law in France; there is a national law regarding the hierarchy, remuneration and transparency of its political representatives in the United Kingdom and there is a national law which meets these same conditions and meets these same objectives also in Germany. There are three countries with different models of State, but all three have national laws that regulate this situation. Indeed, in addition, in the three there are two national laws, one which regulates the remuneration of the posts, let's call, national and another which regulates the remuneration of the other stages of the Administration: autonomous - general, if any - or municipal. There are national laws that apply to all the world; laws that seek to be governed by principles of hierarchy - as I said at the beginning - because of the constitutionally assigned function, proportional to the rest of the public sector salaries and transparency. I insist, in our view, transparency is the key to the vault of this whole issue. Many of the dysfunctions, criticisms, the separation between citizens and politics have to do not only with inadequate behaviour of politicians - in many cases, of course, with criminal rather than inadequate behaviour of politicians - but, in other cases, with a bias in the lack of transparency, with a bias in not regulating and not rationalizing the public system, with a bias in maintaining all the vices of the past and not doing things right so that citizens have control over politics, politicians and political institutions. That is the regeneration of politics, that is the regeneration of democracy: giving back to citizens control over politics, about their politicians and about their democratic institutions. For that a law of these characteristics is absolutely essential. Within the legislative proposal, our parliamentary group - because it is the procedure, we cannot do it otherwise - has set up pay groups. He has compared level 1 with level x in the General Administration of the State; we have multiplied, we have made a proposal of how much the maximum salary should be, in this case the President of the Government, putting it in relation to the interprofessional minimum wage. All this is absolutely questionable and improveable, of course, within the process of law reform. We can discuss all this, but what we are putting to your consideration today - and I want to insist on this - is that we give the green light to this procedure, that the House really gets to work on the need to have a law of these characteristics, that we feel, I insist, to the countries of our environment in that which is positive, in that which is exemplary, that we are transparent and that in this sense we give an example, a message to all the citizens. Moreover, there are some examples among the countries in our environment that I would like to highlight and that, although we do not specify it in the text of the law, it is reflected in the spirit of the law and that I would like to submit to you for consideration even for further consideration. I quoted before them three countries with a different model of State that have done this basic democratic exercise of rationalizing and publicizing the wages of their public offices, elected offices and institutions. England is a case on which I would like to draw the attention of your ladies and gentlemen. In the United Kingdom in 2010, precisely in order to react to an English Parliament scandal, a body, a commission, the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority, is created, which since then is responsible for the regulation and payment of allowances and since 2011 for the allocation of salaries and their increases to parliamentarians, an independent commission that decides and puts the salary to all of us and that does so with a criterion of objectivity, rationality, hierarchy and how public officials, public officials and the economic situation of the country are paid, so that the salary of their elected posts responds to a situation that is the situation of the country and of the citizens they represent. That which is applicable in this case to Members, elected officials, the same idea of an independent remuneration commission or authority can also be extrapolated to the salaries of government members and senior officials. As I was telling you, the basic idea is that decisions concerning the remuneration of elected or appointed political posts do not depend solely on his will or on the political body, so as to ensure that the remuneration is reasonable and public. As I told you, this happened in the United Kingdom in 2011 in response to the scandal of parliamentarians to give transparency, rigour and to regain the confidence of citizens in their political and democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are essentially submitting to you, a proposal for an organic law on the rationalization of salaries in the institutional public sector, which ensures that the salaries of persons subject to this law will be governed by the principles of hierarchy on the basis of the constitutionally assigned function, proportionality with respect to the other salaries in the public sector and transparency of all perceptions, these being public access, accessible directly to all citizens. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, democracy cannot be regenerated if we do not give citizens back control over politics and their political institutions. Transparency, rigour, hierarchy, responsibility, also in public wages, is one of the most urgent needs. I know that the reform of the public administration as a whole, that the institutional and democratic reforms that we have pending do not end with the adoption of this law, but it is a good step, it is a good start and I encourage all of you to join. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mr Esteban spoke on behalf of the Vasco Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm speaking from the seat. I think it is right that this type of initiative should be put forward, especially from a point of view that we have been accustomed to over the last few years in this House, that is, to criticise absolutely any aspect related to institutional matters in the sense that it is superfluous, excessive and a comparative aggravation. Of course, it is clear that due to different circumstances and evolution in many cases mediated by the fear of communicating to the public certain retributive updates in some institutional areas we have reached the small existing chaos. That is undeniable and I would like to understand that this proposal by UPyD is not in the sense that the President of the Government is winning what he should win, but that his remuneration must be updated in accordance with European standards and from there, because it is the most relevant position of the State - let us say that the head of State would be excluded from the administration - other posts would be ordered from below. That doesn't sound bad to us. We have the example he gave before the two hundred and forty-six posts, many times unknown and which, because of the characteristics of his work, are not subject to day-to-day political criticism. They have much greater salaries, especially in the face of the responsibilities to be assumed by the President of the Government or the ministers. To clarify this, to do so didactically and to put the remuneration of the Governing Council at European levels seems right to me. It is a perfectly questionable issue in this House. I welcome the fact that it has not tried to enter into autonomous communities, since, as is the law, this House would not be able to regulate that through that law. If it does so in municipal matters and I have to remind you that in the last amendment of the basic municipal law the issue of the salaries of the municipalities was already contemplated. I have to say that, from my group's point of view, although it is not covered by the law, in relation to the external powers in municipal matters in the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and Navarre, those limits which are laid down in the law should not be mandatory. This is another area of discussion, but I want to say that that is more or less fixed in that law and I see that they respect the autonomous sphere. There are a number of other matters that, frankly, I have not just seen. I do not know whether this classification in these groups is the most appropriate, but it does not seem to me that for political work, article 5, which speaks of the criteria that allow the assessment of the performance of the posts subject to this law and that articulate the concepts of remuneration that vary according to professional conduct and performance or achievement of results, fits very well. This can be very good for a company, but, frankly, in my view in the political sphere they have to measure it later on in the citizens. We can't say after a debate about the state of the nation: look, Mariano, you've been very bad and we've dropped you by fork, we've moved you to Group 2. Well, no. It will be the institutional role that it does not have, but this measurement of professional conduct and performance is very relative in policy. I may be corrected by some other spokesperson if you know him more specifically, but the incompatibility of diet pay in those advices on which you are present according to whether you hold a public office is already covered by law. Of course, in some autonomous areas it is, and if it were not, it seems to me that this is the case. Do we solve the matter well with a gross fixed remuneration when the same proposal you make is open to diets, incentives, etc.? For I do not know if this would really be the ideal solution or to contemplate that there is no diet, but that there is a reward and point. That's not what the text of your rule says. Moreover, I believe that even in this House we could do this job, not within the law because this House is sovereign, but we could also do that job and talk about some pay in packs. We would get rid of these speculations, many of them based on incorrect data made in the hundreds of wind media. I do not agree that the journey should be used to amend the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and to expand the incompatibility. I see some incompatibilities in the sphere of Members and Senators, but for example, the act of councillor with that of deputy or senator depends on what we are talking about: it is not the same as the mayor of a large city as the mayor of a small town; it is not the same as the councillor, that an area councillor, etc., in one of these big cities. Therefore, if something is to be done, it should be done. My group is not going to oppose this being dealt with in the Chamber - I insist - within the jurisdictional matter, which is of General Courts, and without entering the realm of autonomous governments. I think it is right to order, to do a didactic work, but I think that we should focus only on this and not on other areas such as the Loreg. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u7	Thank you, President. Our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law proposed to us by the Progressive Union and Democracy, and we are going to do so because we want to answer the main question, for us, of the debate that we have in our hands: is there a clear reference framework in Spain from the point of view of the pay system, yes or no? There are no different reference frameworks, ladies and gentlemen, we could even say different remuneration practices that are not harmonised, even some of these practices are not even legal, but are practiced. What we need in our country is a framework, a global framework, a fair framework, appropriate to the times we live in, and that framework could be created on the basis of a bill possibly similar to what is proposed to us. Therefore, yes, we will vote in favour of the consideration. Legislative development will enable the proper political debate to make a good bill, to make a good law, and to agree and know when we criticize that a mayor charges too much in relation to who we do it: with the mayor next door?, with the president of the government?, with the director or manager of a public company? We don't know, it depends on how you want to see it, because there is no global frame of reference. On many occasions this allows abusive situations to occur, that and the lack of transparency, because the lack of transparency is precisely one of the key elements so that abuses can occur in our country's public pay system. We say yes to a framework that is objective, that is coherent, that is equitable, that is transparent, that is appropriate to responsibilities both for performance and for dedication, because what we have at the moment are practices based on: first, opacity. In many municipalities you know that many councillors have to fight to get to know each other, to make public what the government team charges, and I'm talking about places where sometimes we can be in opposition and sometimes in government, but democratic practice forces that information to be public, to be known, to be transparent. If there is transparency, it is much more difficult for abuse to occur; if there is no transparency, almost certainly there will be abuse. Secondly, today we have a disproportionate framework, there are public posts, there are officials who charge too much and possibly too many, thousands of officials who charge too little. A global framework must therefore be established to know when and what is the disproportionate. Duplicity, yes, there is duplicity and of course there are abuses, the two great abuses that we have known in recent times: oversolds and revolving doors; oversolds and rotating doors that in this country the laws of the People's Party, purportedly for transparency and also for the control of the high offices, have not controlled. Today we do not have a better control of the spares, today we do not have a greater control of the rotating doors. This proposal for a law is absolutely necessary to achieve it. Let us say this without any demagoguery: we must invest money in democracy. Democracy is not something that can be given without investment, without money, without devoting public budgets to democratic functioning, but precisely in order to be able to invest more money in democracy, that money must be scrutinized by public opinion, there must be full transparency, there must be full accountability so that we know that money is well invested and, therefore, to realize why we are spending money on public posts and public officials. This is something we must make very clear. As I said earlier, our parliamentary group has put forward various initiatives in this House, for example in favour of the exclusive dedication of senators and Members, which have been rejected by the majority group in this House. The debate is not about whether Members and Senators have to charge more or have to charge less. Of course they have to charge enough. The point is that if they have exclusive dedication, they have to be dedicated exclusively and that at the moment does not happen, does not happen and allows flexibility in the compatibility of jobs and salaries that should not be given from our point of view. Of course, Members and Senators must pay enough, because, if not, only those who have wealth and those who have a lot of money will be devoted to politics, but these salaries and that dedication must also be publicly scrutinized and must be clear and transparent. Therefore, yes to the exclusive dedication, yes to a law of high offices that deserves that name, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Party, because the law that you made bears the name of high offices, but it has not served for greater control and transparency of the high offices of this country, and that is why we continue with the problems of the previous legislature. The initiatives of the People's Party have not come to shed light and stenographers on the high offices of our country. Finally - and I finish with this - it must be a law that deserves the name of such a law of transparency - the law that you passed is not a law of transparency, it is your law of transparency - because this debate with transparency, with light and stenographers, works in another way. Without transparency what there are are envelopes and bonuses. That's his policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's proposal for a law, Union Progreso and Democracy, opens up a necessary debate on the rationalization of the salaries of members of the Government, of senior officials of the General Administration of the State and also of certain elected officials. That is why I have already announced that our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of its consideration, although we disagree on the substance of one of the specific proposals that they are making throughout the text that they have presented to us here today. In fact, throughout the explanatory statement and even in the article themselves they present, they include some aspects that are specific to areas of other administrations. For example, everything that refers to the local government - the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has mentioned this - has already been regulated recently here in Congress and has also been challenged, because it is understood that it has invaded competences that are specific to the local sphere. The explanatory statement also refers to issues that are specific to the Autonomous Communities. Specifically, this bill seeks to regulate, as we said, the remuneration of government members, senior government officials and elected public officials. Classification groups would be established for all these public positions according to the agencies to which they belonged, so that a public position of an entity or lower group cannot receive a gross annual salary higher than that of the higher group. The classification includes both members of the Government and senior officials of the General Administration of the State as well as elected members of local corporations, deputies and other representative institutions, such as the General Council of the Judiciary or constitutional organs of the State. Eight classification groups are foreseen in the text which they provide and the amounts of each person's remuneration should be determined on a regular basis. I have already said at the beginning of our speech that we are not going to evaluate - because it is not the relevant procedure today - each of the measures proposed to us in its articulated text. However, we share the general spirit of this proposal for a law, because we understand that this debate needs to be addressed, but we must do so rigorously, without invading the competences of other administrations and fleeing from political opportunism, and at certain times it has given us the feeling that the explanatory statement was not exactly in this direction. In spite of this, I insist, we believe that this is a necessary debate. We can give examples that in Catalonia, progress is being made towards a greater rationalization in the system of remuneration of both members of the Government and senior officials of the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Thus, we can give you an example that in Catalonia the salaries of the members of the Government and senior officials of the Autonomous Administration are determined annually in the budget law. As far as public sector management is concerned, an additional provision, which was recently adopted in the 2014 Act on Measures, has been introduced by law to establish the legal criteria for the remuneration of such personnel, which should be taken into account by the Government in the preparation of the decrees regulating such remuneration. In addition, within the framework of the reform plan of the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia, there are a number of objectives that are in line with the proposal that today defends Progress Union and Democracy. The plan being promoted by the Generalitat aims to build and consolidate organizational models and procedures that ensure values such as those of efficiency, efficiency, transparency, accountability, innovation, flexibility and participation, along with those of subjection to the legal order, professionalism and impartiality. The Government of the Generalitat is also drawing up a classification of public sector entities according to certain legal criteria. We understand that this work that the Generalitat of Catalonia is doing is progressing along the lines that are being valued in this proposal that they are defending today. Therefore, I have already announced that our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of this consideration, although there are several aspects, in our view fundamental, we insist, to take into account. First of all, there is the need to respect the competences, in this case from the local level - let us remember again that we have a law that has already been challenged, because we consider it invades the competences of the local corporations -. Secondly, a rigorous debate must be held fleeing political opportunism. We believe that the text before us does not address a fundamental issue such as fair pay. You speak at all times of rationalizing the retributive system, but in a democratic system like ours it is essential to speak courageously of that concept of fair remuneration for both members of the Government and for the senior officials of the General Administration of the State and also for the other elected officials. You also refer to other issues in that proposal. For example, they refer to the system of incompatibilities, in this case Members and Senators. It is an important issue that we have an opportunity to address in the open paper on the reform of the Rules of Congress, along with many other issues that our parliamentary group put on the table through a motion for a resolution that was discussed and adopted in the recent debate on the state of the nation. We have an important opportunity to make progress in improving the system of incompatibilities. It is important to address this issue and we have the opportunity to do so, I repeat, in the presentation of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, as would be done with regard to the remuneration regime for certain elected posts, to which you also refer. For example, in the above-mentioned paper on the rules of procedure of the Congress, it is one of the issues that could also be discussed. We regret that in the case of the draft law on senior officials of the General Administration of the State, the Government has not been more ambitious, in this case the People's Group, and that progress has been made on some of the issues that you raise here today through this proposal. Finally, I would like to point out that our parliamentary group is going to support this initiative with the exception, if it succeeds, that we should take into account the areas of competence of each administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Batet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the Progressive Union and Democracy is based on two realities from our point of view, which are indisputable and clear, on the one hand, the lack of objectivity, predictability and proportionality between the salaries of senior officials of the General Administration of the State and other employees or public servants; on the other hand, the contempt of what the proposer herself calls a political class, with a nomenclature that has shocked us, because it only deepens the intended separation of civil society from the people we hold political posts, feeding a conception that is really what we want to combat. As we said, these two realities are undeniable and, of course, we share with UPyD, and I am sure that with the rest of the House's parliamentary groups, the desire to adopt measures that will help them disappear from our social landscape. However, to pretend that the objectivity and proportionality of wages is achieved by the establishment of eight wage groups and that this also results in the dignity and strengthening of the policy is, in our view, at least naive, and I will try to explain the reasons that lead me to make this assessment. First, the established groups are based on a fixed remuneration - as determined in article 4 of the proposed law - but to this fixed part they are allowed to add variable concepts, assistance and compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that in the annual budget laws, which we have adopted for a long time each year, this fixed amount per pay group is already determined and therefore it is already transparent, it is already public, it is already known that salary, but to this it is added additions, and it is precisely in that second section where the mother of the lamb is, because it is the one that allows and protects such global wage differences even though it has already adopted some regulations on this matter, as Mr Esteban pointed out. In addition - it is necessary to know - and I want to highlight this in this intervention - the differences are not only between the different categories or the different high offices, but between these high offices there are also differences, because, depending on the ministry to which it belongs, there may be varying amounts. Secondly, as a result of the proposal for a law, it is also established to set maximum and fixed remunerations for local authorities. The case law of the Constitutional Court in this regard points out that the retributive policy of a municipality or a parliament falls entirely within the self-organisational sphere of these local authorities, which is precisely the first embryo of their political autonomy. That is why both previous legislative projects and the recently processed Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government have not included specific tables or maximum remunerations, since the way forward would have to be that of negotiation, dialogue, and agreement with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Thirdly, in this same sense, there are some other regulations which, from an all-encompassing vocation that I understand - I think I am not mistaken in that assessment - which is the will of the proposing group, we should consider that they are not part of this proposal for a law - and in fact are not - because it is known that the instrument does not adapt to the regulation of these other issues. I am basically referring - as has already been said by other speakers - to the autonomous administration and the autonomous governments or also to the regulation of the legislative power, of this House and of the Senate, of the General Courts. The truth is that, indeed, in a decentralized State with a division of powers, the negotiating element, the search for dialogue and therefore the agreement to achieve a cross-cutting regulation, which is really what is being proposed with this initiative, is the essential thing, and the law does not serve us as an instrument to achieve that objective. Fourthly and most importantly, for the sake of the remoteness of the citizenry from politics and its distrust, from my point of view we cannot fall into the naivety of thinking that all problems are solved by cutting, homologating or even removing wages, because the spinal issue remains unaddressed. And what is the spinal issue? For the usefulness of politicians and public administrations that are directed by these politicians to citizens, to citizens. Therefore, what we have to ask ourselves is the essential elements: the salary for what is given and for what work. Therefore, from our point of view, this proposal for a law is not the most appropriate instrument to address the two incontrovertible realities of which the proposing group is a party. In fact, this bill is the appendix to what should be the main issue, which is the in-depth reform of public administrations to make them operational, to make them open and effective, and only after that can they deal with the issue of salaries and the balance and proportionality of these salaries. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are convinced that the Spanish administrations currently need a transformation similar to that which took place in the 1980s, when they adapted to democracy structures anchored in authoritarian principles. The economic crisis, political changes, social, technological and even destructive policies of the People's Party motivate the need and urgency of this transformative effort. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, therefore, without rejecting this attempt at approval and wage limitation - in fact we will vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law - is committed to going much further and working on a model of reform of the entire public administration and of the government that directs it on a basis that should at least include the following aspects. First, accountability is necessary. We must transform the way public policies and programmes are planned, implemented and evaluated by drawing up maps of variable objectives and indicators that ensure continuous monitoring and enable politicians, managers and citizens in general to assess the effectiveness and impact of each public action and the results of the implementation of that public action. Secondly, a change in the method of budgeting must be introduced by modifying the current system of programme budgets. It would certainly be better to implement a budget based on the objectives set by each managing body, without automatically dragging amounts from one year to another. That would certainly help us to end the inefficient escalation of public budgets and to set priorities for action that, when examined, deserve public resources to be launched. Thirdly, this is a radical change in the human resources model. Those of us who believe in the public, because it is everyone's thing, we are clearly betting on revaluing and strengthening the Administration, and this cannot be done without well-selected, efficient, but above all motivated public employees. Fourthly, we must have a renewed administrative organization, without fear of considering some in-depth debates, such as whether the traditional model of the ministry, which has remained unchanged since the 19th century, is the one that best fits with our decentralized State. Fifthly, a rigorous analysis of outsourcing needs to be carried out. To this end, a catalogue should be drawn up with public services that directly satisfy basic rights of citizens to prohibit such outsourcing, that of basic rights for citizens, and that, at the same time, in cases where it occurs - because it is valued as the best instrument - there should be a continuous evaluation of such outsourcing, not only at the time of the decision, but also a continuity in its evaluation. In the area of transparency, the Transparency Act, adopted during this legislature, is clearly insufficient. The transparency portal, the instrument responsible for providing active advertising, has in fact been limited to making publicly available information that was already available to citizens. The main objective of a transparency law should be for public authorities to provide complete, truthful and understandable information for citizens. That is why we were strong supporters of setting up the body to monitor the achievement of this objective, the Transparency and Good Government Council, in a very different way so that it would be an independent body and directly linked to the General Courts. Finally, we should discuss in depth public ethics. Political corruption has recently been placed at the centre of citizens' tiredness, of a society hit by the economic crisis and cuts in public services. In this regard, together with punitive and preventive measures, in the face of the behaviour of the protagonists of corruption - now is not the time to discuss this - in our view it is necessary to articulate a strategy in which the public administration and its employees also play a central role in the prevention and control of corruption. Well, only after addressing this comprehensive and ambitious reform, so many times promised by the current government and failed the same times, would it make real sense to deal with the salary of senior officials and members of the government...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u12	Mrs. Batet, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u13	I'm done, Mr. President. As I said, it would only then make sense to deal with the salary of senior officials and members of the Government, who actually need large doses of wisdom, reality and proportionality. Taking into account the proposal for a law allows us at least to point out the structural issues, but in the event that they are admitted to the procedure, we do not think it would be very good to keep the roof, ladies and gentlemen, because, even if it is the most conspicuous, without foundations, it can remain in pure appearance. Public sector reform in this country remains pending. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs Batet. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez de la Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Díez, I must admit that you are now better at the rostrum than in the texts you are presenting to the House and I welcome it, but I have no choice but to refer to the content of the proposed organic law that you have submitted. He said an important American political scientist called the Sage of Baltimore, Mencken, that there is always an easy solution to a complex political problem and that this solution is always clear, always plausible and always wrong. That is what happens to the motion for a law that you present to the House. I believe that history is full of occurrences, ingenious solutions and, many times, solutions that seem to be the panacea and solutions to all problems end up leading to important bumps that generate more problems than they intend to solve. With all due respect, Mrs Díez, I believe that in the text presented to us they bring us something quite similar to an exercise of pure and harsh political arbitrariness. It doesn't have any depth. If you want us to be serious about this problem, we do and we are serious about it, because it is true - I will admit that that is so - that we have a problem of coherence between pay. You are right, we are all right in this respect and it is not acceptable that undersecretaries win more than the President of the Government or ministers. At least, it's a very shocking fact, but detecting the problem is one thing, diagnosing it well is another - and I think you misdiagnoses it - and then you have to do the treatment, the dosage, which in this case, in my opinion, kills the patient. I will try to explain why it seems to me that the solution you are proposing is really disastrous for the Spanish public sector, for the Spanish Public Service and for Spanish policy. Let me begin with the explanatory statement and make a general criticism of the language you use in it. To regenerate politics we must start by regenerating the political language we use. We must respect the profession to which we are dedicated, we must respect ourselves as politicians and we must also respect the text and the fact that it is a proposal for a law. You can't use the same language we use in a TV chat in a motif exhibition, you can't. Mrs Batet referred to this earlier. You repeatedly use, for example, a little disrespectful and out of place really, the expression of political class and link it to expressions such as that of a privileged oligarchy where corruption, nepotism and amigoism are common currency in Spain. That is not the political truth of this country. That is a problem for this country, but that is not the political truth of what we do here every day. You have been engaged for three years in this speech in which the Spaniards believe that this and not another is the political truth of this country and, of course, in the end, you have done, among others, the dirty work to others who are currently throwing you off the electoral trail. Second question. Regeneration begins by respecting the truth. We cannot talk about the opacity of public salaries and recognize in the text itself that this arises from the data released by the Transparency Act and the transparency portal. Clarify yourself, because it does not make much sense for your proposal to emerge from the data released by the transparency portal, which for the first time has been created in the history of Spanish democracy, and at the same time to say that the problem of public wages is opacity and lack of transparency. Something's wrong with that reasoning of yours. Third question of the statement of reasons. You devote more than half of it to talking about the salaries of Members and Senators, to whom, however, not a single article of the article is then applied, a final provision, yes, to establish the incompatibility in representative terms and the prohibition that you will receive some kind of salary for the office you hold in your party, but little is already done. I understand - forgive me for the expression - that arousing Members and Senators has its effect, but it is profoundly unfair. Let me tell you from this rostrum that a Spanish deputy wins the third part that an Italian deputy, half that a Frenchman, half that an Englishman, half that a Germanman, and half that a Swedishman, for example. All of them also perceive what you call contemptuously outstanding in the text, and that they are often nothing but diets, for example, diets by distance: a German 4,000; an English 2,000; an Italian 4,000; a Swedish 1,000, that is, you criticize and set out comparative systems that pay much better, both the basic salary and the supplements or diets that can be received by Spanish deputies and senators. With regard to the articulated text, the first question - some colleagues have also pointed out in their previous speech - the proposal for a law is dubiously constitutional. In my opinion, it clearly violates articles 140 and 141 of the Spanish Constitution, because it does not respect local autonomy either from the political or financial point of view, or from the municipalities or from the parliaments. In the same way, it violates the autonomy of the Banco de España. Second, it establishes a series of equal pay blocks for very different performance and responsibilities. It intends to standardize what is not uniformable, in our opinion, and I will give you some example, such as that of the councillors. You state that for the municipalities of more than 500,000 inhabitants the councillors, all, will receive a salary of group 7, i.e. the same as the general secretary of the Banco de España or the members of the judiciary. The municipalities of more than 1,000 inhabitants, between 1,000 and 500,000, will charge group 8, that is, a sub-delegate of the Government. I ask you a question: how are we going to force the municipalities of 1,000 inhabitants or 2,000 inhabitants to pay their councillors salaries such as that of the Deputy Delegate of the Government if they are perhaps in financial difficulty? I ask you another question: do you think reasonable, equitable and normal that a Councillor of Bilbao, who has 350,000 inhabitants, covers the same as a Councillor of Otxandio, who has 1,100 inhabitants? Or that a councilman from Murcia covers as much as one from Pliego? Or that a councilman of Valladolid covers the same as a councilman of Castronuño? Do you believe that the difficulties, the intensity of the work, the difficulty, are the same in Otxandio as in Bilbao? Do you think so? How is it possible that they should charge the same, because they think of you, a councilman of Getaria who is responsible, among other things, for the anti-terrorist struggle in that province, the deputy delegate of the Government in Gipuzkoa who, in addition to leading the State Security Forces and Corpses? How is it possible to compare magnitudes that have nothing to do with each other? I think this can't be legislated, this is pure arbitrariness, this is apparently very orderly, it's very Jacobin, it's very good, but it's nonsense, because then it doesn't adapt to reality. [[Applauds]] Another example: ambassadors, all equal, group 6. I say that the ambassador to Haiti will not be the same as the ambassador to the United States; the ambassador to Jamaica will not be the same as the ambassador to Russia. Embassies can be, if ordered, embassies of first, second, third. There is one thing that is called the diplomatic body's escalator and there is another thing that is called the diplomatic career, which is that foreign service officials go up, start with less important embassies and culminate in more important embassies. In the case of the Judicial Power with the uniformity you would directly violate the ability of the General Council of the Judicial Power to report the proposed remunerations that the Government makes every year. In addition, they commission in their text - which seems to me to be science fiction - the General Directorate of Public Service, of the Ministry of Finance, the control of the salaries of judges and magistrates. This is as little as it violates the division of powers, but it should in any case be the Directorate-General for Personnel Costs. It is a sidereal ignorance of the Administration that you are proposing. Thirdly, the same salary cannot be proposed when the training required for one post is different from that required for another, i.e. when special technical training is required, for example, for the President of the Nuclear Security Council, the CNMV or the Bank of Spain is not the same as the training required for a councillor. Why? Because when special technical training is required, account must be taken of the average level of remuneration of the sector in which that institution operates, in order to attract a minimum of talent and a minimum of capacity to the public sector. It is also not taken into account whether senior officials have official residence or not, such as the President of the Government, government delegates, ambassadors and delegates, or whether they have representation costs or not. Finally, the most important deficit in your proposal, in my opinion, is that you do not include the amounts for each group. We don't know what the top rankings in Group 1 would charge, neither in Group 2 nor in Group 3 nor in Group 8 of course. How do you expect any government to embark on a retributive proposal of this magnitude without knowing the cost? Have you bothered to value this proposal economically, or does that matter to you? This proposal would have only two ways to prioritize wages: either to raise the salaries of the President of the Government and ministers or to lower the salaries of all others. But we don't know what you're proposing. If what they are proposing is that, at the moment when the Spanish families have difficulty reaching the end of the month, we, as the Government of Spain and as the People's Parliamentary Group, approve a salary increase of the full Government and a salary increase for Members and Senators, already advance that they do not count on us for this scandal, because it would be a real scandal. [[Applauds]] We have passed the Transparency Act...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u16	Mr. Gomez of the Serna, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u17	...and you have voted against - I'm finished, one second -. We are dealing with the law on the status of the high office, and you have voted against it. Our priority at this time, ladies and gentlemen, as in the entire legislature, is to fight the serious economic crisis, to create employment, and to maintain the welfare state, and not to raise the salary either to Members, Senators, the President or Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez de la Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u19	No bill proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left on health exclusions in Spain following Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. Mr Llamazares has the floor for the presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, when the Royal Decree 16/2012 has been completed for two and a half years, we believe that the time has come to propose to the House that it repeal it, that it repeal a decree which sought an objective: it was not so much the policy of austerity in the face of the crisis, but that it intended, taking advantage of the crisis, to change the health model; from a health model with the right to health recognized as the right to citizenship to a health model of insurance, of insured and insecure. And it must be said, publicly and clearly, that this model, ladies and gentlemen, that objective hidden in Royal Decree 16/2012, two and a half years later, has failed. It has failed because of the resistance of the citizens, because of the disagreement of the health professionals, and also because of the imperience, not to say impotence, because of the lack of political direction of the Spanish Government itself, of the Ministry of Health, which has changed minister, but has not changed direction. Ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years later, after the failure of the insurance model, a model of involution towards the universal health model, the time has come to recognise it and to restore citizens' right to public health. That is the objective of this parliamentary initiative. The Government's project has failed. There is nothing more to see than that, after this model of insured and insecure persons, one million people have been excluded from health care in our country and yet those insured outside the public system barely reach five hundred. There is no public-private insurance model in Europe where the public system maintains coverage for the vast majority of citizens, and the insurance system, which seeks to compete with the public system, has such low coverage. [[The lady]] That means the model has failed. But although the model has failed, the victims and the side effects exist. The victims of Royal Decree 16/2012 are, in the first place, immigrants who in our country lack papers, but not only them. It is the Spanish migrant citizens in foreign countries who have been left without health coverage after three months, but not just them. It is the pensioners and chronic patients who today, due to the death of the co-workers, do not withdraw their prescriptions, do not obtain the drugs they need, and end up worsening their health situation and entering by emergency or worse conditions. But it is also, ladies and gentlemen, those citizens who are caught up in the consequences of the cuts that have led to an increase in waiting lists between 20 and 40%. Of these citizens, an important part is the use of private assistance precisely because of lack of public assistance. All of these are citizens who are victims of the Government's frustrated attempt to model insurance, which, as I say, has had victims. But it has also had side effects that we want to denounce today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government was proposing an alternative of greater sustainability and greater coherence among the autonomous communities. Little less than the Government intended to sweeten the bitter message of insurance with greater sustainability, and on the other hand with greater equity in the public health system. Nothing further from reality. The Government has introduced two new agents into the health system. The Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities were as entities carrying out the health service, and the Government has now introduced the Ministry of Finance as an expenditure monitor and the Ministry of Employment as an insurance interpreter. It is the Ministry of Employment that says who is insured, who is half insured, and who is not at all insured, to the extent that at present there are side effects as a result of this plurality - in our view excessive - of agents in the health system. Thus, not only immigrants without papers have been excluded, but immigrants with papers are currently not entitled to health care. For example, their ascendants do not have the right to health care, or for example - as the Madrid Community said recently - transient children, and who have finally had to heal that abusive interpretation that excluded groups that did not exclude the law. But not only that, ladies and gentlemen, in hospitals in this country, care is being denied to pregnant women or a bill is being passed on to them; in hospitals in this country, too, bills are being passed on to minors. That is what is happening, because everyone here interprets the Ministry of Employment or the Ministry of Health or the reference community as he sees fit.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u21	Mr. Llamazares, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u22	I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, these victims, also with these side effects, call for the repeal of Royal Decree 16/2012. We believe that it should be repealed, but to the extent that the Royal Decree is being repealed, it should also be clarified to the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Health, and the Autonomous Communities that the coverage of the system remains a broad coverage, and not that each can interpret it in their own interest. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the proposal, which has to do with the failed attempt at insurance, the maintenance of the public health system, and the repeal of Royal Decree 16/2012. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u23	Thank you, Mr. Llamazares. There is an amendment from the Socialist Group. For your defense, Mrs. Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u24	Thank you very much, President. It is not the first to discuss this content. There have been different initiatives in plenary and in the Commission, and the People's Parliamentary Group has never accepted them. Today, with the debate on this non-legislative proposal, we are confident that the People's Parliamentary Group will not look elsewhere. The Socialist Group has always defended the principle of universality of our National Health System. Our position has not changed since the adoption of the General Health Act, when we were in government, in the early years of democracy. The People's Party Government has broken this unrelenting principle. We have said this on many occasions, the consequences that the implementation of Royal Decree 16/2012 has brought have been those planned and thought through with relief, but not only have been these, since many consequences have affected groups not initially foreseen by the heads of the Ministry of Health, and these consequences are not exactly minimal side effects. Citizens of different groups - they have already been named - who suffer silently, citizens who, if they had previously guaranteed care, now see with fear that the loss of health can lead them to a dead end. We would like to think that they have already realized that there are almost 900,000 people who have lost their health card, have lost the right to be cared for in the universal National Health System. We assume that they already know that there are pregnant women and children who are being denied attention, because they have lost their work permit or not, their residence permit or not, or simply because their parents, immigrants, have been left unemployed and lost their added rights. They should already know that some citizens do not go to emergency services because they are required to sign a document that is frightening, in which they undertake to pay for health care. We want to think that you already know the failure of the invented measure of this health-care agreement, if paid. How many agreements have been signed? They could tell us. And, ladies and gentlemen, you will have heard that there are returned Spaniards who have to process the recognition of their rights as Spaniards, something unusual, and you will also know that our children or not children lose the right to care within three months of being away. Is that what you've learned or not yet? They have always looked elsewhere and denied the consequences of their decree. They do not want to evaluate the damage done so as not to face the dark face of reality. They do not want to hear the voices of the collectives who have produced these reports. The most recent is that carried out by Doctors of the World and the Federation of Public Health Associations, which reports that the most affected women have been the most unprotected: immigrant women, women in social exclusion, women victims of ill-treatment, they and their children. If the minister continues to review the decisions of the previous team of his ministry we would also like him to review the effects of this decree. We share the Plural Left Group's proposal. The first point proposes the recovery of universality, which should never have been lost and which we have always defended. We agree with the content of the other points, especially generically with the repeal of this decree, although we have drafted an amendment to include the immediate and urgent replenishment of the right to health care for all Spanish citizens returning to our country after a stay abroad, by study, by work or simply by re-establishing their lives in our country. We want the term health exclusion to disappear from our vocabulary at once. No citizen residing in our country should ever have lost a fundamental right, such as the right to health. You have broken the principle of universality and you must put it back; if you do not, the citizens know perfectly well that we are not equal in this. Of course, when the Socialist Party comes to the government it will no doubt repeal this decree, just as we have committed ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. Mr Baldoví has the floor for the Joint Group on position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, for those of you who are here, thank you very much for the shows of affection that you have dedicated to me all these days. I have such a big heart. Thank you. [[Applauds]] And now I'm still for you. [[Laughter]] This morning all the parties have signed a commitment to universal health, and you were not. Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights speaks of the right to health for all persons, that motherhood and children have the right to special care and assistance. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations requested Spain to ensure that legislative reform does not restrict people's access to health services. In April 2014, six United Nations special rapporteurs and independent experts reminded the Spanish Government that basic human rights standards cannot be ignored by fiscal pressures, and in January 2014, the Committee on Economic and Social Rights of the Council of Europe stressed that this reform was contrary to the European Social Charter. However, you have gone ahead with the royal decree-law, which violates the Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in addition to the social drama that is causing the most vulnerable people to be denied health care: minors, pregnant women and chronicians. Over the past two years, the Ministry of Health has withdrawn 873,000 health cards; fear of billing, the feeling of exclusion, leads pregnant women and children to renounce access to public health care for fear and concerned ignorance of the Administration, which is neither clear nor clear. However, the PP remains impassable. Of course we will vote in favour of the proposal, because we have a commitment, a commitment to universal health, to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u27	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Welcome. Mr Quevedo has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u28	Thank you, Madam President, and greetings, Baldo. Welcome. The Canarian nationalists will once again support a non-law proposal, in this case defended by the Plural Left, which has to do with an issue that concerns us extraordinarily. In the Spanish State there has been a huge setback in a matter that should be a fundamental right. I recall again that in the Spanish Constitution the right to health care is not within the fundamental rights, but probably among the rights acquired, in its article 43. It was a transformation of Spanish society associated with that General Health Law, which came to recognize that the long journey up to the recognition of people's right to be assisted in their health problems had been an outdated stage. We had moved from the stage of brutality, injustice, inequality, to recognizing that people had the right to be cared for in their health problems because this was part of the essence of human nature, of human dignity. What happened? I, who have given some classes on public health at the University of the Canary Islands, explained to my students that this is one of those rights that has been achieved, and look at what has happened: the People's Party has taken advantage of the crisis to exclude the weakest from the health system instead of helping them. [[Protests]] This is a matter that needs to be corrected. You have one million people who no longer have the right to health care The principle of universal health care has been liquidated by you with a real decree, as explained here, and I know you have the Goebbelian technique of saying the opposite of what happens to see if there is luck, but I can assure you that this is a matter for which you must be punished electorally, and we will help everything we can. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u29	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. By the same group, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u30	Thank you, President. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, much and bad has been said this morning about Royal Decree 16/2012 in the organized act, and in which several social organizations have intervened, and the entire parliamentary opposition; a parliamentary opposition which has repeatedly called in this House for the repeal of that Royal Decree, which no longer only goes against health rights, but is a full-fledged attack on human rights by this Government. And that is not what the BNG says, as has been said by various European and United Nations human rights bodies which have warned this Government of the serious consequences of the health reform it has carried out, and which affects the most vulnerable and unprotected population. Royal Decree 16/2012 has ended the universal health system as a basic right of citizenship, and has introduced a model of insurance that leads us to a health system in which the rich can get the attention of private insurance, by the way subsidized with public funds, and the rest of the population remains in the hands of a decapitalized public system, like charity. It has been the Government itself that has quantified in about 900,000 the cards of foreign persons resident in Spain who have been discharged with the arrival of the royal decree, and indeed as reflected in the initiative of La Izquierda Plural, which we will support, not all are unregularized immigrants, the exclusion of health also affects children over twenty-six years old, and the ascendants of the community citizens who carry out an activity. More and more people are turning to NGOs for help, because they have been deprived of the right to normalized access to public health on conditions equal to the rest of the population, people who are put in front of a payment commitment before attending to them in emergencies, or pregnant women who are denied access...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u31	Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u32	I'm done, President. ... follow-up of pregnancy and postpartum. In short, a real misconception and a decline of more than three decades in universal access to health that we will never support. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Once again we have come up to this rostrum to talk about a subject and to ask for the same thing all the parties, except the People's Party, through initiatives of different kinds, but in essence what we want is to repeal Decree 16/2012, which so many headaches are giving us, and so few benefits have brought us, first, because it is an injustice, because it has altered established principles as the basis and pillar of a social state, such as the universality of public health services as a result of the right to health, the right to health that has nothing to do with social security contributions, that is another story; and second, because it is an administrative chaos that, far from solving what it wanted, has generated confusion, despair and nothing of saving. As I said in another speech, on the thread of this same topic that was not long ago and with this same theme we were raised in this very House, in my group we see health protection as an unquestionable universal right, not as a consequence of social security contributions. We have defended and will defend this universality in the right to health within the framework of our normative capacity, for example, in Euskadi, in line with the essential pillars that underpin the social model. But we said from the beginning that the principle of universal health is unalterable. No one can be deprived of that universal right. That is why - and I return to Euskadi - if shame does not beat some of you, I would like you to be able to take such measures as well. In Euskadi no one - and when I say no one is anyone -, regardless of their roles, their employment situation, their origin, their precariousness or whether they are billionaire, is left without public health care. As is known, the Government of the State through the aforementioned Royal Decree 16/2012 deprived certain persons of the status of insured person or beneficiary of the right to health care, including those of foreign origin without legal residence permit. However, the Constitutional Court finally endorsed health care for this group in the Basque Autonomous Community because it refused to comply with it. So there are certain elements that need to be accredited and, once the requirements have been certified and, if necessary, obtained recognition, the citizen will receive from Euskadi an identification title: the individual health card, personal and non-transferable. The rest, those who fail to do so, will be treated for emergencies and public health problems, but no one will stay out because we believe that this situation cannot be maintained. Moreover, this is a measure that the Basque Government has taken on the basis of its responsibility to deal with the injustice generated by this royal decree. And in this respect, and as a group that has made this clear from the outset, there is the motion for a resolution that my group tabled last year - exactly one year ago. In it, we urged the Government to repeal the Royal Decree with the aim, on the one hand, of restoring the competence of the Autonomous Communities in health matters and that the General Administration of the State invades through this Royal Decree, and, on the other, to maintain the principle of universality mentioned above and to offer free health care and with all guarantees to all persons in the State, regardless of their origin, nationality or legal status. Finally, I would like to point out that this Government and its measures in the field of health are not going to go into history precisely as the most advanced or as the most successful, as indicated in the explanatory statement of the initiative presented by the Plural Left. The Council of Europe has also warned that these decisions are contrary to European law and that States have an obligation to provide health care irrespective of their place of residence. Because you start with these health care issues and then you enter into a very dangerous game, like going to question, for example, the RGI, as Mayor Maroto in Vitoria is doing, generating a rift and a fracture in society when there was no one, and all by a handful of votes nothing more, questioning fundamental foundations that were already established in society. I believe that the consequences of such actions are very dangerous.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u35	Mr. Agirretxea, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u36	Because what do you think should characterize us - and end up - as an advanced democratic society, gentlemen of the People's Party? We are lucky to be rich, and when I say the luck of being rich is by comparison with others for whom health care is a luxury that cannot be allowed. What do we gain by not providing health care to those who need it? Because we're not talking about billionaires who can pay for their own mutual or private insurance; we're talking about people who need to be cared for. In addition, how has that measure been noted? For neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Health have come to tell us: with these measures we have saved this, we have advanced this and therefore the decision has been profitable. Because it has not been possible to demonstrate either the profitability, a word that we do not like very much in health matters. But even if we accept that possible concept, we have not achieved anything either.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u37	Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u38	I'm done, Madam President. Therefore, we will support this non-law proposal of the Plural Left, as we have always done in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. By Progress Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u40	Thank you, President. The Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy will also support the initiative put forward by Mr Llamazares on behalf of his parliamentary group. It happens to me as to the other colleagues who took the floor before this speech. I have lost count, I cannot calculate how many times we have brought to the House's debate the request for repeal of Royal Decree 16/2012. I have lost count of the times that all parliamentary groups have demanded or asked the People's Parliamentary Group to withdraw the royal decree in the light of its consequences. I remember perfectly the day we discussed this royal decree. I remember perfectly well that the day we discussed it this deputy told the minister at the time, Mrs Mato, that I did not believe in her evil, that I did not believe that they were proposing and approving this royal decree to harm people, to cause the damage they are causing today, and that, in view of the consequences, this parliamentarian - naively, proved to be - believed that the government would rectify. No, not only has it not rectified, but it is precluding itself in maintaining a real decree that has done nothing but harm to citizens, damage to the public health system and damage to universalization because it has repealed it, has been a deadly attack on the universalization of the health system in Spain. Today I know it was the target. Then naively I thought it was simply a mistake, that it was clumsy, incapacity. Today we know that it was an objective that was being pursued by the People's Group and the Government and that has been achieved. Here the figures have been given, but surely they are incomplete figures. Mr. Llamazares spoke of a million people who have left the public system, yes, because you have replaced universality by insurance and there are very few people who have been able to enter the insurance system. You have expelled those who call without papers from the system, and that is that you do not give them the papers and take away their rights. You are no one to take away citizens' rights, you cannot pass a real decree that takes away citizens' rights that are recognized not only by Spanish legislation, by the Spanish Constitution, but by European legislation. You have attacked the most basic rights of citizens, particularly citizens who are in a situation of greatest lack of protection, which is what the State has to do, precisely for that purpose. Their ungodliness, the ungodliness of their Government, in the way they act, has left more than a million people stranded. He has left behind the people who suffer the most and besides - Mr Agirretxea said right now - nothing has even been saved. It is true that talking about health, basic services, talking about money is a contradiction, but it is not even that, because every time we are presented with a study of the consequences that this royal decree has had, in addition to the negative consequences for the people who have left you in the gutter - it is not that you have left them in the gutter, it is that you have thrown them into the gutter, it is that you were in the system and you have expelled them from it -, it is coming out to us all very expensive. There are more and more professional organizations that inform us of what is costing you what you are doing, and it is that those citizens who do not go directly into the public system and who could receive closer health care, end up going to emergencies with a serious illness, sometimes having infected many of your fellow citizens - because you know that viruses do not ask for papers to move from one to another - and end up in emergencies. The cost of the invoice is much higher, but make sure that the cost is the least we would have to care about. The cost in relation to human rights, with the people who have been thrown away, with the degradation of the quality of our health system, thanks to the impeccability and the way you govern, is an absolutely insurmountable cost for the Spanish democratic system, yes, for Spanish democracy. Ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why is it that all the political groups agree on this issue; why is it that the European Commission - we do not send it there, at least this parliamentary group has nothing to say there, we do not send it to the European Commission - why is it that the European institutions have also reported against this decision and have called the attention of Spain to act,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u41	Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u42	Yeah, I'm done. ... to repeal this royal decree that is doing so much damage to the public health system and particularly, which is what we care about, to millions of our fellow citizens, to millions of people living in Spain, who are in Spain and who have the right - right - to be served by the public system. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone will be surprised to say that my group is going to support the non-legislative proposal. We are going to do this for many reasons and none of them is new because they are reasons that have been repeatedly demonstrated in the debates that have been held in this plenary, also in the Committee on Health, and I suppose that certainly in the future debates that we will continue to have in what remains of the legislature. One of the reasons we want to support this non-law proposal is because it urges the Government to return to the universal health system that we had before April 2012, with the approval of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, which unilaterally - and with this I mean without consensus, without talking to the parliamentary groups, without talking to the scientific entities, that is, without talking to anyone - came before us here without giving us the opportunity to treat it as an urgent bill, if that is what you wanted, but as a bill, as we repeatedly ask also many groups, including our own, imposing it on us by that absolute majority of the People's Party, although legitimately, without doubt. As I say, now the non-law proposal advocates repealing some of the articles that we consider important from this royal decree-law, articles that the Parliament of Catalonia and also the Generalitat have resorted to, starting a process of unconstitutionality. Therefore, we only claim and ask what we are saying from the first day: return to the universality of the system. Removing citizenship rights, such as access to health care, is neither possible nor, in our view, constitutional. Article 43 of the Constitution has been mentioned here, and it is that restoring the public health model based on the right of citizens to universal access to health care is to enforce the provisions of that article, as a reflection that recognizes full respect for rights in the field of health care. That decision to change the regime also contravenes the parliamentary agreements that we have reached in this House. I recall that the last one, reached within the subcommittee for the analysis of the structural problems of the health system, which examines the main reforms that must be undertaken to ensure their sustainability, contained, among other recommendations, the preservation of universality in citizens' access to public health services. That report was adopted and that report contained that recommendation. Mr Agirretxea also spoke to us about international bodies in connection with the agreement adopted by the Council of Europe, and I would like to remind you that the United Nations Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights also showed that the lack of treatment for undocumented poor migrants was unacceptable. Mr. Llamazares, we share the non-law proposal, we share the return to the universal health care system by exceeding the insurance system and we share the need to repeal the corresponding articles of the Royal Decree-Law. We also share the need to resolve those problems and specific cases to which his non-law proposal also refers. As a result of the regime's change, we have, over time, encountered exclusions of groups and citizens who cannot access health care. One of these groups is those who have obtained a residence permit after 24 April 2012, who in certain cases do not have access to public health; for example, ascendants who have arrived in Spain by family reunification with a person with Spanish nationality are not able to be cared for by the public health system and neither in the case of not exceeding the income limit set at 100,000 euros. It is a very particular subject but it is affecting people and, therefore, it is important. This is the meaning of points 3, 4 and 5 of his non-law proposal. Moreover, they are supposed to be obtaining favourable judicial rulings, which is more reason to change it. Its non-legislative proposal highlights situations where migration management policies are not sufficiently adjusted and coordinated with public health policies, and vice versa. The way in which the reform of the system was carried out, via royal decree-law, without parliamentary procedure, with urgency, being subsequently modified also urgently, has led to these situations which I believe are not loved by anyone. To finish. Few could think that we would see ourselves in the situation of defending at this point the principle of universality of the health system, but in this thesis we find ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u45	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angulo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u46	Madam President. Once again, we are addressing an initiative whose aim is to put an end to an argument which is intended to create confusion and which is not true. It is a perch initiative that once again intends to use a demagogic speech, full of words in some very thick cases, to try to simply get some kind of political revenue. Because the truth is that our health system is today, thanks to the Government of the People's Party, more sustainable, more universal and more equitable. Royal Decree 16/2012 is precisely the legal framework that guarantees universal health coverage and protection for all Spaniards and residents. No one is left without assistance, live in the Basque Country or live in Extremadura. That's what I assure you. It is the royal decree that has introduced greater equity in access to benefits. As much as you try to hide it, it is precisely this government that has extended that right to many Spaniards by incorporating people who have been excluded for decades. Because the socialist government denied that right to thousands of citizens, and what is worse, it expressly took away the health card from very disadvantaged people: the long-term unemployed who did not receive any kind of benefit. You, who accuse the Government of denying health care to foreigners, which is also not true, how could you deny that right to thousands of Spaniards, many of whom lacked the minimum resources? Even the Ombudsman called on them for years to meet the challenge of universalizing health care. Thousands of people without umbrellas in Spain. Where was all the opposition while the former Government deprived thousands of people of health care, many of them without resources? You didn't care about those people? Why didn't it matter to you that the top managers of the IBEX companies who retired with millions of dollars didn't have to pay for the drugs, while the unemployed without benefits had to pay 40% of the drugs? [[Applauds]] That is what the People's Party Government has regularized. And, above all, what was intended with this royal decree is to put an end to irregular situations that were taking place in Spain. Because precisely that Spanish public health, of which you too often speak badly, is excellent and that is why there were many citizens, especially from countries of the European Union, who were travelling to Spain to receive medical treatment, and who received it simply because they were registered, citizens many times with a high purchasing power who had money to live in Spain for months waiting to operate or receive treatment, that is, free, because we paid all Spaniards because then they were not billed. That is to say, even those Spaniards who were denied a health card, people who had no benefits, with their taxes paid health care to those 700,000 foreigners, at best many of them with a lot of money, who had to be covered by their countries and their insurance. That is their universality and that is their equality. For that reason, do not count on the People's Party; to defend fraud at the expense of Spanish money, do not count on the People's Party. In addition you give figures on health cards - that is, every spokesman has given one, even Mrs Díez has already said millions - when the truth is that today in Spain there are 751,000 more cards than in 2011. That is clear proof that there were many citizens who did not have a health card and that they do today. In order to hide this inequality that has remained on the left for years, they are now trying to create confusion, because the fact is that foreigners with activity authorized to live in Spain rise to the status of insured persons in the same terms as a Spanish citizen does. In our country, foreigners in an irregular situation have the largest health care in the European Union. Therefore, do not confuse or manipulate, because that is also what the Socialist Group's amendment seeks. The truth is that all returned Spaniards, all, have guaranteed health care in our country since the first day they return to Spain. Therefore, we cannot accept your non-law proposition because you play with words and manipulate. What this Government has done is to extend health care to thousands of Spaniards, many of them without resources, to whom the left was denying it, and to end a fraud that was endangering Spanish public health. [[Applauds]] This Government has made many reforms, they have never been easy, but they were necessary, and it has always done so under a premise, that of defending the welfare state, which the former Government has endangered, and the citizens are seeing it. What I would do would make me look if I were a member of some opposition group that stands in the most humane, the most social, at most, and uses very thick words against the members of the People's Parliamentary Group, is why even with these demagogic and populist messages the citizens are no longer supporting you; that would make me look at it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. Mr Llamazares, the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment, do you or do you not accept it?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u48	Yes, Madam President, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u49	Okay, thank you very much. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE FUTURE OF YOUTH EMPLOYMENT. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000575]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u50	We move on to the following non-legislative proposal, in this case by the Vasco Group, PNV, concerning the promotion of youth employment. For your defence and presentation, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. One cannot always boast of the reflections that his own children make, but yesterday one of mine, who was paradoxically reproached for continuing to study, for studying further, commented that he did so - after the reproach of one of his sisters - because he wanted to be happy in the future and to be so he needed to work. For look, Madam President, at this moment we are living with a situation of unhappiness affecting 1,700,000 young people in the Spanish State; a situation of unhappiness that does not derive precisely from the possession of a presbyterian or Lutheran conception of work, no, it is simply that they cannot emancipate themselves or have life expectations. There are 1,700,000 young people who do not have a job, want to have it and cannot enter the labour market. They are not always the same 1,700,000 young people - they are data of the ministry itself closed in January 2015 - because one of the characteristics of youth unemployment is that it is a rotating unemployment, some young people replace others; when the temporary contracts of the former end it is replaced by a second to avoid the consolidation of these workers with temporary contracts in the company, and the same happens with those who have training contracts or those who are subject to incorporation into the labour market through the scholarships, who do not even have protection for common social security contingency. This is a drama that leads us to another political reflection, Madam President. My group is strongly drawn to the attention that is being emphasized and focused both on the electoral campaign of the People's Party on the intended improvement of unemployment or the growth of employment. In the area of youth employment, which affects children under 25 years of age in a very serious and almost chronised way those in the age range between 25 and 30 years, there has been no improvement at all since the beginning of the economic crisis. We continue to live with this dramatic percentage of 23% of young unemployed people who want to gain employment and cannot do so, and for this reason, Madam President, they are unhappy. In other places where the unemployment situation is better, there is no electoral use or little improvement in unemployment is used to obtain electoral revenue. This happens in the Spanish State exclusively and by the Government of the People's Party. In other parts of the Spanish State, in the Basque Autonomous Community, in Euskadi, the situation of youth unemployment is better and the number of unemployed young people under the age of 25 or under the age of 30 is exactly half the average in the Spanish State. Unemployment in Euskadi is 14% when in the Spanish State it is 24.5%. Therefore, Madam President, in our opinion you have a point of political immorality to use the intended improvement of the unemployment situation to obtain electoral revenues. Of course, the Euskadi lehendakari does not do so and it is very cautious when it comes to assessing also the improvement of unemployment in this community, in Euskadi. From that perspective we also wanted to highlight that things are being done wrong, that do not serve - and hence the sense of the self-amendment that we have presented to this proposal of law - practically none of the rules approved by the Government of the People's Party in relation to the improvement of the employment of young people under the age of 25 or those in the range of 25 to 30; neither the flat rate, nor the youth guarantee, nor the employment strategy for the years 2014 to 2016, nor any of the plans approved by the Government of the Spanish State in relation to the employment of young people, because the percentage of unemployed young people remains the same, remains in percentage terms in the same terms as we have been living with since 2010 and 2011. This is a drama and an unbearable situation from a perspective of dignity and humanity that must characterize the policy of public administrations. From this perspective, we will comment on some of the measures we are recommending to improve employment policies that affect the young segment of the unemployed, which is the sector at this time most vulnerable from the perspective of unemployment. Firstly, a measure would be to encourage the incorporation of persons as working partners or working partners into cooperatives or working societies. The social economy has a long tradition in Euskadi, but I have to tell you that the social economy as a concept since the beginning of the economic crisis has not lost in macroeconomic terms a single job. Then these corporate formulas are especially useful for young people who seek a collective self-employment formula in a cooperative way. Secondly, the problem of young people is primarily that they are given credit or funding, especially in the field of circulating capital. A young person needs capital to be able to handle the establishment of self-employment or to set up a company or micro-enterprise or a cooperative society through clear and unequivocal support from mutual guarantee companies, which should also extend their activities to this area of activity. Thirdly, to promote certification credits of varying duration. The Deputy Director-General of the ILO, Mr José Manuel Salazar-Xirinachs, has recently been in Euskadi and has come to say that he is impressed by the good functioning of the employment and youth employment support measures in Euskadi and is very disappointed with those they are implementing in the Spanish State, very disappointed. Here I have the reflections of Mr Salazar-Xirinachs. It is therefore necessary to promote variable-duration certified training credits which will lead to the improvement of vocational qualifications, to facilitate access to training by establishing a greater supply of distance training - young people are very skilled in handling telematic formulas for training at a distance, for training even from their own home - and to broaden the recognition of work experience and informal learning. Little or nothing has been done in this area recommended by the ILO itself, which is fundamental to providing relevant and recognizable professional qualification, regulated for those who have not been able or unwilling to study or have not had the opportunity to do so. To enable training, but from the perspective of training, to truly copy, if I may, the expression, at a holy time, dual training as conceived in countries such as Germany, Switzerland or Austria, where it is working well, and not to use that perversion of the 2012 labour reform, whereby young people, through training contracts, will not be trained, but to carry out ordinary activities of the company, which can do so, according to the labour reform, up to 80 %.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u52	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u53	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Adapt the skills required by companies in the field of ICT. Articulate mechanisms that make it possible to make available to young people with circulating capital, essential for the operationalization of a business, of an activity. And to use something that has been neglected for centuries in the Spanish State, which is the use, through what could be a kind of special perspective of the active ageing of senior pre-retired or retired people but who have a great qualification in that area that young people, who may be very specialized in certain skills, do not manage, such as market access, access to credit, business management or business management mechanisms. What is the basis of our amendment? It is based on the fact that the Ministry of Employment and Social Security is probably the most Jacobin and most centralizing in this Government, to the extent that it has perverted the notion of competence as provided for in the Spanish Constitution, based on the operative principle. The device principle has been violated. Autonomous powers in the implementation of labour legislation and in the implementation of active employment policies are subordinate, which is constitutionally impossible, to the management, control and verification of their implementation by the autonomous communities, by the State in the form of a review. That is violating the concept of autonomy, the principle device from that perspective.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u54	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u55	And not only from that perspective, because the measures that have been articulated have not served anything in the field of youth employment either. That is why we are presenting this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u56	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. There are a number of amendments. First of all, by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Anchuelo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Listening to some of the government's triumphalist speeches, already in pre-electoral terms, there may be citizens who hear us think that there is a need for initiatives to combat youth unemployment if the problem is already solved. Unfortunately, nothing further from reality. That's why these triumphalist speeches, rather than tricking people, anger people. It should be remembered that the unemployment rate in Spain today is 23.4% and in the European Union it is 10%, that is, our unemployment rate more than doubles that of our European partners. It should be remembered that in certain communities such as Andalusia it is not that doubles, it is that triples that of our European partners, and this problem is even more serious in the case of young people, with an unemployment rate of more than 50%. Not to remember that today there are more than half a million members less than when the legislature began - we have not recovered the employment levels of the beginning of the legislature - or three million less members than when the crisis began. We therefore welcome these initiatives to solve a problem that is far from being solved. Our objection to this PNV initiative is that, given the seriousness of these figures, we are being offered some slow measures that can achieve a marginal improvement in the existing situation, but they are very short for the gravity of the problem they are trying to solve. When you're very sick, sometimes you need an operation, you can't cure that serious illness simply with aspirin. On the other hand, these measures of not much silence are mixed with a self-amendment that enters into competition issues, in a bilateral treatment between the Basque Autonomous Community and the State that, as you know, does not exactly coincide with our idea. That is why what we are proposing with our amendments is a more ambitious, alternative proposal based on the measures that Union Progress and Democracy is defending for our labour market. Our star proposal, as you know, is the undefined single contract with increasing compensation. Because our young people are either condemned to unemployment or to a concatenation of temporary contracts of a few weeks or months' duration, which are going to concatenate, they are going to repeat themselves, but never leaving that trap of temporality. That is why we propose that all contracts be indefinite. They will tell us: but they never leave the temporary contract because the indefinite has a higher compensation. So let's put an indefinite with increasing compensation, starting with fourteen days per year worked - in 92% of the cases would be an improvement - and from there it will increase. That would give our young people opportunities for job training and the possibility of having a future plan for their lives. That would also save us the EUR 4 billion that we are now dedicated to incentivising indefinite employment, because, first, we are precarizing employment and then giving incentives to see if someone signs an indefinite contract. With those billions that we would save ourselves on bonuses to indefinite employment we could improve the training of our unemployed, especially needed for our young people. In the meantime these substantive measures are being implemented, we have often proposed in the House other measures; to avoid the abuse of contractual figures such as the contract in practice, the contract in training or the scholarships, which are used to achieve cheap labour, often formed but cheap; to strengthen the Youth Guarantee Plan, so that it covers the under 30s - many of our unemployed young people are in that age band - or to put in place a real law of second chance, not the decaffeinated one that we will discuss on Thursday in the House, so that young people who undertake, if they fail in their first project, have the chance to repeat. As you can see, these are bottom-up measures, not aspirins, but the operation that our labour market needs, especially in the case of young people. Measures that seek to end this infernal disjunctive in which our young people are today, who in more than half of the cases are unemployed and without training and the other half are in precarious jobs, without being able to escape the trap of temporality. If the proposing group accepts our amendments, of course we would vote in favour. If it does not, we will abstain, because we believe that its measures are too short for a problem of immense social gravity, such as unemployment and, above all, the youth unemployment we suffer in our country. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u58	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. For the Socialist Group, to defend your amendment, Mr Girela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Group supports the proposal put forward by the Basque Group, although we have tabled two amendments to add to the text. Indeed, as his explanatory statement states, the youth unemployment rate is alarming, as it is more than twice the overall unemployment rate, as reflected in the data from the last labour force survey, and worse if compared to the average of the European Union countries, which is 20 points above. From 2011 until now this unemployment rate has increased by 7 points in our country. It is true that it has decreased very weakly during 2014, just as the rate of activity has also fallen, which, as they put it well, causes young people to migrate or abandon the search for employment in the face of discouragement and frustration, which are circumstances to take very into account given their age. The measures proposed by your Lordship in this initiative should be welcomed, and also some are of interest to other age groups. However, the transition to stable quality employment is becoming much more difficult. If we look at last February's membership data, we will see that, of the total number of participants under 25 with an indefinite or temporary contract, more than 65% are in precarious employment and not 15% have a training or practical contract. Of the total undefined contracts last February, only 10% were for children under 25 years of age. It is young people, together with older workers, who suffer more clearly from the consequences of the labour reform imposed by the PP government. A reform that precariouses employment, that gives the employer unilateral power to set wages, to set days and that enshrines a free and rightsless dismissal. This indefinite contract of support for entrepreneurs, which was supposed to be the great finding of the current labour reform, allows free and rightsless dismissal during the first year. External mobility - or entrepreneurs abroad, as described by members of this Government - shows the total lack of sensitivity towards our young people, who resort to leaving our country to train or seek employment and who, as an unfair award, are also withdrawn from unemployment benefit if they leave more than 90 days. The development of the youth guarantee raises many doubts since the central administration reserved 50% of the European funds, to the detriment of the autonomous communities, which assume the competences in active employment policies. The central Government has set aside half of the funds for a programme which, to date, brings together just over 20,000 registered persons. The serious problem of youth employment in Spain extends to the age of 30; this programme caters for children under 25. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be much more ambitious. In Andalusia, a socialist government is promoting social and community cooperation programmes and initiatives such as Emple@Young, for children under thirty years of age. With this measure, the municipalities, at zero cost, put in place projects of social utility that allow the beneficiaries, especially the long-term unemployed, to acquire a professional experience. These initiatives are also linked to community development with projects of assistance, care for dependence, protection of the environment, promotion of tourist activities, sport or cultural development, among others, ensuring that there are entrepreneurship initiatives at the local level. Fellowships for research and development projects with a commitment of at least 20% are also being promoted. It seems to my group that it is a good proposal that this GNP should include senior volunteering entities, which have been involved in technical cooperation with business management in our country for years. Entrepreneurship does not consist exclusively of sitting on a bench and watching what people want. Ladies and gentlemen, our young people cannot wait; talk with them, with those in our neighbourhoods, with those in our villages, and they will realise that all measures taken by the public, in cooperation with the private sector, must be announced and made available to them in full proximity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u60	Thank you, Mr Girela. For the People's Group, to defend your amendments, Mr Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to fix our position on the Basque Nationalist Group's non-legislative proposal on youth employment, which appears to be the recipe of this group for solving one of the main problems affecting our country, which is undoubtedly the lack of opportunities for the youngest. To this non-legislative proposal we have tabled an amendment in a constructive spirit, since we are convinced of the importance of the problem, as our Government and our parliamentary group have repeatedly stated. We believe that agreements can be reached on the basis of the text put forward by the proposal; at least we believed that, since many of the measures announced in the proposal are under way, are being implemented or are being implemented. However, we have met with a self-amendment tabled by the proposing group which takes this assumption on the ground and which invites us to adopt a number of measures and then to take them all back into consideration. Perhaps the explanation is that it is intended to save the face against a non-law proposal that is two years old and consists of seven measures, six of which are already implemented. In short, it would seem as if, in terms of youth employment, you have a recipe that is not valid if it is the same recipe that the People's Party is implementing. So much so, that in the points of your non-law proposal, first of all, you propose to us, among other things, to encourage the incorporation of young people into the cooperative, social and labour economy, something that appears in the strategy of entrepreneurship and young employment and which is developed in Law 11/2013, of measures to support the entrepreneur and the creation of employment, with bonuses of 800 euros per year for the incorporation of young people into the social economy or of 1,650 for contracts of under thirty years of age in a situation of social exclusion. In the second point, they propose the promotion of mutual guarantee companies, in an enunciation that so scandalously blurs the literality of measure 43 of the strategy presented by the Government a month before the registration of this initiative that anyone would say it is a plagiarism and that, on the other hand, it is already settled with the Law on the Promotion of Business Financing, which certainly counted on the vote of its group. Thirdly, we are being told about the impetus of certification credits, the extension of recognition of work experience and informal learning, which we agree with; in fact, the amendment we are presenting incorporates this point and even the reference to the competences of the autonomous communities in this area. In its fourth point, they invite us to develop alternation training, which we all know as dual vocational training and which is already being implemented; in fact, it is being progressively implemented by the Government and the autonomous communities. In its fifth point, they invite us to adapt the skills required by companies in the field of ICT, in another case which is extraordinarily striking of literal coincidence with measure number 21 of the strategy - page number 80 -, which is the text that we incorporate in our amendment. Sixthly, to articulate mechanisms for the availability of circulating capital for the start-up of business activities, something also referred to in the aforementioned strategy of entrepreneurship and young employment and which has also been developed in a multitude of measures that the Government has put in place to solve the problems of the financial system, including, again, the Law on the Promotion of Business Financing, which was adopted with a broad consensus and which was supported by the Basque Parliamentary Group and the Catalan Parliamentary Group, which includes, among other things, mechanisms such as crowdfunding. Seventhly, they refer to the use of assets of great experience or seniors so that they can advise and collaborate with young entrepreneurs, a measure to which we propose a technical improvement amendment and which we believe should be part of the conclusions of the Youth Employment Subcommission, which has recently completed its work in the House. After all this battery of amendments, which most of them are already implemented or are being implemented, we have a new point, the eighth, in which we are invited to reconsider the whole of the above. With this it is impossible for us to agree. Ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done in the area of youth employment, but in view of what has been said, much has also been done. Young people's access to the labour market has been promoted through labour reform, the law of entrepreneurs and the strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment; the funding of projects for entrepreneurs has been improved with laws such as those I mentioned; the training of young people has been improved to combat early school leaving, which is one of the scourges affecting our system, introducing vocational training and reforming the education system in Spain. Obviously, the results do not arrive overnight, but, as the President of the Government would say, we have stopped falling and we are starting to climb. Unemployment among children under the age of 25 has fallen by 13% since January 2011. In January this year there were more than 11,000 training and learning contracts and more than 5,500 practice contracts, an increase of more than 36% over the previous year. The recovery of our economy is already a fact, Mr Olabarría, not because this humble spokesman says so, but because it is affirmed, among other things, by the Basque Workers' Association, which in last March 5th's Expansion newspaper stated that the crisis has been left behind and that recovery is a fact. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work to ensure that this recovery reaches as many young people as possible and let us leave the rostrum of Congress to campaign elsewhere, as the Socialist Group has proposed. And I want to give you one last piece of information. We have been told that the unhappiness of unemployment affected 1,700,000 young people, a fact that has caught my attention, because the EPA of the fourth quarter of 2014 - which I know is the last available - indicates that the unemployed underage are 813,700. The difference is remarkable, almost a million. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u62	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yesterday I read a tweet by Andreu Buenafuente about the government's possible drop in cultural VAT. I thought it was interesting and funny. He said: a small step for culture, a big step for the electoral campaign. This tweet comes to the case because this week I saw a film made here, Losing the North, starring young actors, that tells in a bitter way the situation of our youth and how much the problems of the young emigrants of now resemble those of those who left in the sixties. That is why we welcome initiatives with concrete proposals for improving the situation, although we believe that we are facing a model problem. It is good to bet on co-operativeism not only through the creation of new businesses, but also by recovering from the workers companies that are about to close through institutional support to convert a closure into a cooperative. It is good to address the need for better training in the case of construction workers. In this case, it should, in our view, be reoriented towards the rehabilitation of housing and renewable energy, which the Government does not allow to grow, and which is mandated by the European Union. The problem requires a change of model that does not look elsewhere when hiring people without rights, confusing them with autonomous ones; a model that is clear that you cannot bet on exploitation and semi-slavery as a solution to unemployment; a model that is clear that youth does not need to be equal to high qualifications and low wages. Young people cannot continue to be the cheap and skilled labour force that some companies take advantage of because they need access to their first job. It is a tragedy that our young people leave their families and friends to find their first job as waiters in Berlin, Amsterdam or London; if we want our young people to stop being waiters in Europe, we will have to change our model. Compromis Equo will therefore vote in favour of this specific proposal. For young people, the crisis is still not left behind, it is still far ahead. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u64	By the same group, Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u65	Thank you, Madam President. There is a poem by a canary poet named Pedro Lezcano entitled The Bag and that is stuck in the heart of every island. It's a long poem that I recommend you read. I'm just going to read them a stanza that says, "I already have the suitcase, / a big suitcase, of wood: / the one my grandfather took to Havana, / my father to Venezuela." I say this because last week I was talking to a taxi driver in Tenerife, whom I know of my time as mayor, who told me with his eyes scratched that he and his wife were several years in Venezuela, who left at age fourteen and then returned to the Canary Islands and bought the taxi because he wanted his children to study and have the opportunity that he and his wife did not have. He has a son and a daughter; the son is physical and the daughter has studied Magisterium. He told me with his eyes scratched that what hurt him the most was when at night the son, at the age of twenty-nine, took the taxi to take out some bitches after what had cost him and what his wife and him had fought and dreamed. This is our country. I was in Berlin and I saw Canary boys working poorly, though at least learning a language, which in the Canary Islands is almost a career. Today the PNV brings this initiative, perhaps the political force that knows best about youth employment, training, and here we have the data, perhaps because of the industrial fabric, but also because of a very interesting vocational training policy in the Basque Country and the most European, with interesting proposals. I want to say one thing, and it can't be that the Youth Guarantee Plan doesn't include people between the ages of 25 and 30. Why? Because they finished their university career with twenty-five years during the crisis and they haven't had a chance, perhaps in another normal period of time. In this period of crisis, we need the twenty-five and thirty-year-olds and active employment policies must be adapted to each territory. The problem we have of youth unemployment in the Canary Islands is not the same as in Galicia or the Basque Country. We have training problems. In the Canary Islands, jobs are created and people come from outside to cover these jobs. This one centralized youth employment policy is a mistake, the training issue needs to be adapted to the needs of youth unemployment in each territory. In that regard, we warmly welcome this proposal for a political force which has experience in this area and which should be an example for this country and for the Minister for Employment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. By the same group, Mr Larreina, are you going to intervene? [[Denial]] Okay. Thank you. We moved on to the Plural Left Group. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our group welcomes the non-legislative proposal submitted by the Basque Nationalist Party. They are a series of measures that we cannot disagree with because it is obvious that they can have a positive impact, but we disagree with the approach, because if a GNP brings the praises of the People's Party does not need enough to go to the root of the problem, and the root of the problem is structural. We are faced with the need to go beyond these measures which we are going to vote for, but we are faced with a necessary structural reform. We know perfectly well the situation of youth unemployment - many of us have suffered in our own flesh - is above other sectors of society, but the solution cannot be only sectoral, there cannot be a single youth employment plan because the reasons why young people are unemployed are the same as older people are. Therefore, an economic stimulus public employment plan is needed to address this problem of aggregate demand that exists and is obstructing the necessary absorption into the labour market. In other words, even if we generated all the employment plans for the training of young people, to increase their already obvious qualification to extraordinary levels, and even if we put them accompanying people with remarkable experience in the labour market, we would still not be absorbed by a productive structure that is inefficient for that task. The approach has to be another, in our view, without prejudice to the fact that, I insist, these proposals are positive, but we need a more in-depth, more pretentious measure. Our proposal and international proposals, such as that of guaranteed work, are at the root of the problem. It is ultimately a question of understanding that the private supply of work, or the demand for work according to the approach, is incapable of generating private jobs at a time of recession with a significant financial leverage. This leads us to the need to understand that it is the State and the public administration, with sufficient funding, that has to be the driving force behind the creation of public employment, which in turn generates sufficient economic activity to create private employment, both in the youth and non-youth sectors. The approach is wrong or not adequate enough, but ultimately point by point, we are going to vote in favour of it, as it cannot otherwise be, but we insist that our group believes that even if it were approved and implemented it would not be sufficient to solve a problem that has a deep root, which is the productive structure, the lack of aggregate demand, and both issues can only be solved by a determined activity of the State through a public stimulus plan adequately financed after a broadly progressive tax reform and, if necessary, the European Central Bank should be the one to back up the funding needed for that plan. If this were a much more ambitious employment plan at European level than the one known as the Juncker Plan, we would be in a better position and all of these measures that we are going to vote for would be a necessary complement to the most appropriate measure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u68	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u69	Thank you, Madam President. The Catalan Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative by Mr Olabarría and the Vasco Group. [[Convergence and Union]] We agree with the diagnosis he makes of the issue and with the proposals he makes. You focus primarily on financing and training aspects. The spokesman for the People's Group has come to say that the Government is already doing so, but certainly if one looks at the impact of the policies that the Government has made on these two specific aspects, in terms of funding and training, we could be critical of their effectiveness. In this regard, Mr Olabardía's reiteration of the desirability of deepening this approach and his references to the experience of the Basque Country would also fully justify the support of the People's Group for this initiative, or also the specific reference it makes to the social economy as a factor that could effectively help to generate employment. Certainly - and Mr Garzón put it in his speech a few minutes ago - we have a high level of youth unemployment insofar as we have a high level of unemployment in general, but there are other countries, such as France and Germany, where the level of youth unemployment is lower than the percentage of youth unemployment in Spain in relation to total unemployment, and in other countries, for example the United Kingdom and Sweden, youth unemployment is higher than general unemployment. This indicates that together with economic growth and job creation in general, which would help to reduce youth unemployment, in our model there are specific issues that form part of the pathology, beyond the model of economic growth and the productive model: school failure, overqualification, lack of employment orientation policies, lack of effective specific policies for young people's inclusion in the labour market. It is not by chance that in the Spanish case youth unemployment represents 2.5 points compared to the total unemployment. Countries with less school failure, better vocational training, better youth orientation towards the productive system, better labour market integration mechanisms have youth unemployment rates that represent 1.5 points compared to the overall unemployment rate. Therefore, specific policies are needed in this area because simply with economic growth, whether public or private, we will continue to have higher youth unemployment. It is going to end the legislature and we have the feeling that the great instrument that Europe has built in this area and that the Government should implement, which is the youth guarantee, will end in enormous frustration, and the risk of this frustration of the youth guarantee has to do with at least two issues. One, again Spain spends the resources of the policy to combat youth unemployment not in what is structural, such as vocational training, job orientation or integration into the labour market - which explains our higher rate of youth unemployment - but in subsidising job creation in a general way. That is not a useful policy; experts have told us, Fedea has told us, a study from the University of Alcalá de Henares has told us, this Congress approved it in the last legislature: we are spending money on subsidizing the hiring that will often be done equally without these subsidies. We are wasting resources and not investing the youth guarantee in what is structural. But in addition, ladies and gentlemen, although some progress has been made in relation to the European Union's progress on these youth guarantee resources - the European Union is finally going to make 30 % progress - the fact is that for many autonomous communities, those most punished for the austerity policy imposed by the Government, there will be difficulties in spending these resources, which, together with the fact that Mrs Oramas mentioned that young people between the ages of 25 and 30 are excluded from the system, together with this excessive expenditure on bonuses, together with the difficulties for young people to register on the youth guarantee websites - difficult and complicated - perhaps unfortunately we will end this legislature without having spent the resources of the youth guarantee and without having reversed the fundamental problems we have in this area. It will be a huge pity, a huge disappointment and a huge irresponsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u70	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Olabarría, on the three amendments tabled, what is your view?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u71	We accept, in its own terms, that presented by the Socialist Group. We do not accept that of UPyD, it does not finish convincing us the figure of the single contract, and it draws attention to the fact that with the coincidence expressed by the spokesman of the People's Party we do not vote for the proposal, so we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u72	Mr Olabarría, there is no debate going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u73	We shall now proceed to discuss the motions resulting from the inquiry. Firstly, the Socialist Parliamentary Group's motion to the Minister of Health on the situation, development and prospects of the system for autonomy and attention to dependence. For your defence, Mrs. Carcedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would have liked the minister to have been present today because I would be interested in giving him advice - advice from a person who really appreciates him - and it is that, as the popular saying says, who loves you will make you cry. I have the impression that the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality has collaborators who love him too much and, in this desire for complacency with the results of the legislature, they are going from stumble to stumble and putting the ministry in a rather delicate situation. It seems to me very commendable that the collaborators of a ministry, the senior officials, are creating that of social turn and have put themselves to work to reverse situations that led this country to a very serious increase in the situation of risk of poverty and inequality. To me it seems, I insist, very interesting and very laudable that they put themselves to the task. Since the summer of 2014 we have announced the social agenda of the Government and the social turn, not only the high offices, but many citizens and many politicians have believed that promise and we have been waiting for those measures that would entail that social turn. I'd be happy if the addiction were in a different situation than it is. Well, the heads of the Ministry of Health put themselves to the task, but I think they mistook the method and are in a virtual game of trying to fit numbers into an arithmetic that is incomprehensible to all humans, at least to official arithmetic. We did not just understand those figures, which I sincerely believe are of good will, but there are some of them hanging in the ministry that are of crime. For example, when they want to demonstrate that the funding of the unit is higher than in 2011 and that there were no cuts, they think of hanging information in the ministry saying that the unit is financed by the Unit Act - in short - and the Autonomous Communities Financing Act. In other words, they say that the financing of the General Administration of the State includes both the General Budgets of the State and the budgets of the Autonomous Communities; that in the exercise of their responsibility, in the definition of their autonomy, in the preparation of the budget, in the fulfilment of their responsibilities, they allocate to the financing of the unit the provisions of the Unit Act and the Autonomous Financing Act of 2011 and hang it in the Ministry, in an official agency. They delay the publication of the data is not known why, they publish them and when they publish them it is absolutely illegible what they collect there. They say they reduce waiting lists, but also that while there are more people served there are fewer waiting lists. Therefore, we do not understand anything because the final lists do not fit any. We don't know what you mean, honestly. Not in accordance with this, they send a letter to the autonomous communities requesting that they send them cases that they have even if they are not included in the official procedure of the unit, that they send them the data because they are already incorporating them into the system. So I'm not surprised they didn't publish the data. I told the minister that I trusted his word when he told me that there were almost 7,000 more people served in 2014 than in 2011, but then, if you check it, you realize that those data did not go through the SAAD, did not go through the official system, that those people have no resolution because some autonomous communities have bitten and sent them the data of 9,500 people of care to the dependency of a single autonomous community that did not go through the SAAD, did not go through the official registry and have no resolution. That's all, but in this way, no matter how much you try to do financial engineering, if you're in charge of doing that financial engineering to someone who doesn't have a degree in engineering or accounting, numbers can hardly come out. Let's say we're in the virtual world, but it's that in the real world dependents are not cared for, informal caregivers have cut the amount, they don't have Social Security, etc. The problem is that the reality of dependence is as much as it is trying to deceive from an official body. What I am saying here is very hard, because the least that has to be demanded of a public body is that it has a reliable, rigorous, transparent, reliable and realistic information system. [[Applauds]] What we are seeing is really annoying, especially for a country that I consider to be a country of advanced democracy. The reality is what it is and the data, no matter how much you try to mask them and marry them, it's not possible that they fit because they don't fit. What we propose to you in this motion is that neither engineering nor bachelor's degree nor master's degree are required in accounting engineering, but simply and simply learn to click the word system, at the click of undoing and start undoing everything you have been doing in this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u75	Mrs. Carcedo, your time is up. Let's just sum it up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u76	What I propose from the click of undoing has to do with the Royal Decree 20/2012, has to do with the Law of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration to ensure the survival of public social services and not what its spokesman in Andalusia, by the way with responsibility for social services, proposed in yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u77	Mrs. Carcedo, we're not in Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u78	No, I'm saying no, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u79	Mrs. Carcedo, don't open up debates to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u80	Just like you had as a former high-ranking officer of the matter. I will simply say that there are three amendments - and I am moving forward with the position - tabled by the Catalan Parliamentary Group Two of them I cannot accept, and the one that they are doing in point 6 can be accepted as an addition because it explains better what I propose to you so that you can start grade 1 moderates in 2015. [[Convergence and Union]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. There are indeed three amendments tabled by the Catalan Parliamentary Group Mr Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Carcedo, your initiative has interesting aspects and coincides with the positions that Convergence i Unió has held during this parliamentary term in relation to the issues of dependence, especially in the rejection of the legal reforms that the Government has introduced in this area. Therefore in much of the issues you point out you might find the support of Convergence i Union. But it is true that in this matter we have long maintained some discrepancies; discrepancies that at the time led to Convergence i Union, together with the Basque and Nafarroa Bai Parliamentary Group, to reject the Unit Law. [[EAJ-PNV]] We understood that there was a serious problem of competitive invasion and that there was a serious problem of lack of a sufficient funding model to ensure effective development of the system. In this motion, the amendments tabled by Convergence and Union seek to prevent it from falling back into greater centralism in this area. My group is very convinced that one of the problems with the dependency care system is that it is based on the false premise that standardizing a policy guarantees good services for people, effective equality and a real exercise of those rights. It seems to us that this is a wrong approach, and the Unit Act demonstrates this. It is a question of providing resources and freedom for the autonomous communities to guarantee rights, and the laws of the State must recognize rights, but it must be reserved for autonomous policies to adapt to their reality and to respond to specific problems or to options for different models. And that, Mrs Carcedo, is a matter of political choice. In Catalonia, we may wish to have a model of care for dependence other than that which exists throughout the State and, in the exercise of the statutory powers that we have in the field of social services, to be able to exercise it. Not that a particular model is imposed on us by state legislation. In addition, in terms of funding for this policy, my group has long insisted that state funding should be associated with the actual costs of services provided under the dependency care system. And neither the minimum level that the State continues to fund in this area today; nor the so-called agreed level, which the People's Party has suppressed; nor in either quantity, which the State transferred, had to do with what actually cost a place of residence, a place in a day centre, a few hours of home care at home, to mention the three major programmes that exist around the attention to dependency. And this leads to the fact that in autonomous communities such as Catalonia - surely something similar can happen in Madrid or in the Valencian Country - where the living costs are higher, where the salaries are higher, the costs of these services cover even less, through the state subsidy, the coverage of the same. But in addition, if we want the copayo to be centralized it will be much worse for the dependents of Catalonia, where surely the application of a single copayo for the whole of Spain will imply that the dependents of Catalonia must pay more, with which there is that absurdity that comparatively, the rich of the poorest regions end up being better treated than the poor of the richest regions or territories. Therefore, let's review the copayo, ensure that the copayo does not prevent anyone from accessing the dependency system, but let's not fall into the mistake of standardizing. We guarantee the funding of the care system of the unit, we act on account of the actual costs of the services provided and, finally, Madam President, we are able to do what Convergence i Unió has been demanding for five or six years: we agree on this matter, we give this issue a stability that effectively allows us to generate, in the face of the great challenge of the long-term care of the elderly, an area of sustainability and tranquillity, of development of a sector that, together with the care of rights and people, can and must also be a sector that generates employment. That would be our position. Mrs Carcedo cannot accept all our amendments and Convergence i Unió will abstain in this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u83	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. At the time of the fixing of positions, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, and first of all, Mrs Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur herself has said, Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 in the case of dependency was the rule that led to the collapse of Law 39/2006, which with many difficulties had already been in operation since 2007. The changes made by this Government to the Unit Act itself, but above all the reduction in public funding, have led us to the collapse of the implementation of a regulation that has already raised numerous problems since its inception in terms of the part that would be the responsibility of each administration to finance. [[The Lord]] We have increased from EUR 1,498 million in the State's general budgets for 2011 to almost 30% less in 2015, and we have also moved to the autonomous communities which are currently accounting for almost 63% of the cost of services and the users themselves for 20%. The implementation schedule has also been modified and those who were due to enter the system in 2013 are still unattended. There are currently 300,000 people, to which should be added the new applications that will be made until July. The Government reduced the amount of financial assistance to caregivers - more than 90 per cent are women - and stopped paying their social security contributions, a social security which they cannot afford. The evaluation was simplified to three degrees and some families saw how the degree of dependency varied from day to day and how their benefit was reduced without notice. Since 2012, more than 100,000 dependents, ladies and gentlemen, have died without receiving the benefit they had recognized. The scandalous waiting list has been reduced, but not because people have been taken care of, but because they have died. To the dependents and their families has not reached the recovery that the People's Party speaks of every day, and in this general desolating panorama the case of Galicia is absolutely dramatic; with one of the most ageing populations of the whole State and a dispersion of the population that cares and much about services, there are less than half of the recognized dependents who are receiving an effective benefit, and from the other half there are thousands who are abandoned, not to their fate but to their misfortune, increasing the data of exclusion and social marginalization in a country in which their president boasts every day of being the champion of the fulfilment of the deficit. I'm done, Madam President. The Unit Act has already been repealed de facto. That is why we will support this initiative, although we believe that the Catalan Group's amendments would enrich it. We will support this initiative and all those that come in this direction because we believe that people's problems must be addressed. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mr Errekondo also has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u86	We all know, the bloody cuts of this People's Party government drag the welfare state to its dismantling and people within the social exclusion dependency group. Any advanced society understands that the money earmarked for dependence is not spent but is an investment and a generator of quality employment. However, this government implements policies in the opposite direction because it invests in public services 70 billion euros less than the average of the European Union of Fifteen or the abolition of the agreed level and cuts in the minimum level and economic perceptions within the family environment have meant for the autonomous communities a hole of more than 2 billion euros when the autonomous communities finance more than 65% of the system. In 2015, without going any further, the Dependency Care System has suffered the loss of 140 beneficiaries every day and yet today there is a waiting list of 176,000 beneficiaries to which the 117,000 beneficiaries who have died while on the lists waiting to be attended should be added. It should also be added, if expected, to the 314,000 moderate beneficiaries. However, we do not see that the latter has been included in the 2015 budgets, possibly by chance. It is therefore clear that in Euskal Herria we understand in a very different way what social services are and what care is about dependence. We are very convinced of one thing and it is that the current Minister of Health, Alfonso Alonso, is not the most suitable person to run social services when he has been accused of distributing millions of euros from Victorians to friendly entrepreneurs. And it is that in Gipuzkoa, or in Euskal Herria, we have it very clear and it is not to apply the cuts against its 26,000 dependent citizens, even if it has to contribute 10 million euros to save the state. Nor does it apply the incompatibility of perceptions and services, and it has also continued to incorporate persons in a situation of moderate dependence into the service. For example, this same 2015 budget devotes 48 % of its entire budget to social policies and, even more, over the next three years will invest in the case of Guipuzcoa 29 million euros to meet the 1,200 new beneficiaries, which will revert to a profit of 72 million euros and to the creation of 741 jobs. Gipuzkoa therefore clearly has its priorities, which is to defend its citizens, contrary to what the People's Party Government does, which condemns women to be necessary caregivers and psychologists of the household. We from there are already building the new Basque society because, despite this government, there is a path that is the Basque way. [[Pronounce words in Basque]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. We shall vote in favour of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group for a number of reasons. Mr. Campuzano has already commented that we have always observed with reservations the adoption of this law to which we attributed for the time when a certain electoralist profile was approved, it was obvious, and where the identification of the right that was enshrined was not a social security right under article 41 of the Constitution, but one of these so-called citizenship rights. I hope someone before the end of the legislature will explain to me what this amphibological concept of citizenship rights is as if some right were not citizenship, well animal rights, but we could also enter into more semantic than legal debate. Moreover, because the competences of this law were superimposed on the autonomous competences, those exclusive in the field of social assistance, and because in the economic memory when the law was passed it was seen that it was metaphysically impossible to meet its requirements, which happened later. Mr President, the law has been passed, all these reflections are meaningless and what needs to be done is the obviousness that the responsible parliamentarian must do: to demand their compliance, which is what the spokesman of the Socialist Group has done, in his own terms and to avoid these perversions or budgetary deviations that are occurring, so and so that something that has to be financed by halves, 50%, by the General Administration of the State and the autonomous administrations, and the co-op of individuals at this time is being financed almost entirely or by the beneficiary citizens or by the autonomous communities, 100% in Euskadi by the Basque outlaws and 20% by the State. It is a deviation and a perversion of the law that must be demonstrated, as long as the General Administration of the State is in breach of its legal obligations, not its voluntary, moral or social justice-related commitments, its legal obligations. Nor is it qualifying under this successive scheme for the qualification of dependants, with the timetable laid down by law. That is why the request that all grade I dependents, moderate dependents, should be qualified in 2015 is a utopia, given the way things are and given the budgetary appropriations we have seen, but it is a legal obligation that we should fulfil. Non-compliance with legal obligations seems to have no consequences in some areas; in others, the consequences are extraordinarily burdensome and coercive. In these, linked to social matters, social assistance or social welfare, the Government's attitude to demand compliance is more lax. Finally, the last perversion that is intended to be corrected and that we support is the prevention of the professionalization of family members in relation to the care of dependents, disconnecting from the contractual link, which was simply to assimilate them to discharge in Social Security. In short, in assimilation of professionals to the family members themselves, surely those who have the greatest skills, knowledge and empathy can generate to care for a dependent, professionalize them and cover the social security contributions that are necessary for an activity that also in the content of the law is considered a professional activity, justly professional and legitimately professional and that has also been the object of regression in this field. The Unit Act - as commented by the spokesperson for the Joint Group's BNG - is de facto repealed. It was very difficult to apply - we warned at the time - but in fact it is repealed, it is failing in such an alarming way that we can consider it already amortized politically, but we are in time. We do not overlook the possibility that it can be regenerated and recovered, but it can be recovered whenever the demands of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group are met, of the amendments of a competitive and other nature of Mr Campuzano and of what we all claim, that at least the law is applied in its own terms. We ask nothing more, that it be applied in its own terms. Bad is that government and bad is that parliamentary institution that has to simply demand law enforcement. Some political pathology, which will have to be identified, is happening in this country right now. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Our group is going to support this motion, as it usually happens, not because we are 100 per cent in agreement with everything it proposes, but because we agree at the bottom of the matter and also for something else that has been said here. Indeed, the Unit Law was a law full of good intentions, a law that touched upon a deficiency of the welfare State in Spain, but which overruled, completely ignored two fundamental issues: one, the State's competence structure, therefore, who and how would be responsible for implementing this legislation; and two, what could happen when, as happened very little time ago, an economic and financial crisis arose from an unusual depth. Therefore, as with things that are very well-intentioned, it is a law whose consequence has been frustration, disaffection of citizenship and crisis of democracy. Why? Because when the neglect of the Unit Law affects 270,000 people in general and, more specifically, those of the first step in very large amounts - we are talking about 167,869 people waiting to receive help and, in the meantime, they are dying; this is what is happening and it is tremendous - it refers us to other disasters of management of the crisis of our democracy, which can be blamed not only on the current government, but also on the previous one. There can be no law that does not have a funding system, that ignores the fairness of its application and that, in fact, they are looking for the brightness, the brightness of the government in office, disconstruing and leading to paroxysm one of the cancers of democracy, which is short-term, by the application of a law that raised, rightly, many expectations, but which turned out to be another legislative bubble plus, an assistive bubble, a bubble of well-being that did not have the substance behind it, the solidity it should have had. However, we will support it, because we agree with what it proposes, but we do not want to overlook a substantive problem that needs to be addressed. Having passed on to the autonomous communities, as the law itself had already done, the primary responsibility for their implementation had practically led, as Mr Olabarría said, to their practical repeal, since the autonomous communities had such differences in financing, debt and investment capacity, that it was completely impossible to achieve effective implementation, especially when the State's contribution had been reduced by 27% in four years, which was exactly what had happened. In short, my group believes that it would be more interesting for the municipalities and not the autonomous communities to be responsible for dependency and similar assistance, provided that they had sufficient scale and capacity. But for the time being, and pending a broader debate, let us leave the vote in favour of this motion and hope, albeit with little hope, that there will someday be a serious debate on how the shortcomings of our model of state frustrate and prevent the development of laws full of good intention, as has been the case. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. I want my first words in this Chamber today to be for these two women killed by macho terrorism a few days after celebrating International Women's Day. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the plenary session in which the question that gives rise to today's motion was discussed, there was a more than interesting cross-reference of data. There has also been a crossover today. The Minister offered a series of apparently new data to the rapporteur, Mrs Carcedo, who also defended the motion today. The rapporteur, logically - you, Mrs Carcedo - did not know exactly what that data was, but gave it to her. You were overly kind. It is a good thing that you have corrected it today, because that data is indeed not good. And not this disputed who is here, who could also say so, nor his parliamentary group, but the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services comes to say that absolutely makeup data are used to have a triumphal vision of how the system is going at this time. Previous speakers have also said this: The Unit Act, unfortunately, is practically an abrogated law. We would already like to vote in favour, if not, but that is the situation. It says this same association, as many speakers and yourself have also mentioned, that the reduction of the waiting list in 2014 is due, in its entirety, to the death of the people who should have been served. They continue to say that in 2014 the system has lost 8,122 beneficiaries, being therefore the first year since the adoption of the law that closes with negative annual balances in number of beneficiaries; the first year, despite the crisis. Moreover, it is the year in which some of the Government are saying that they are emerging not only from the crisis, but that this law has been recovered. They also say that people disappearing from waiting lists can only be for three reasons: for administrative reasons, i.e. that at one point they do not comply with administrative procedures; by grade review, a situation that you know is occurring in many autonomous communities, casually where the People's Party governs mostly or, most commonly, what we have already mentioned: death of the holder. It will be a coincidence, but between the data given from the waiting lists on 31 December 2013 and the data given for 2014 there is a reduction of 42,501 people, practically the same as those given on the basis of those three issues that I have just mentioned. Because no person appears to be cared for, therefore they have not gone to limbo. What happened? That these data have been given and that, moreover, they do not want to be recognized by the Government. I will finish my speech, because I do not have much time left, with some other question. The first is that it is pathetic and frustrating for many families, as some other intervener has also said, the absence of public resources and benefits; mostly unresourced families who have no way of bringing their patients, their families to private initiative and who have to be looked after, such as this well-known case that appeared in the media, by the brothers and not attended by the public administrations as it should have been attended to. Therefore, we consider that all these rights cuts, all these resources cuts inexorably lead to the loss of health of those who are dealing with these family members and, therefore, also to the increase in expenditure, in another area, but to the increase in expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you should already be absolutely aware that neoliberal policies are sick and do not save anything; they are sick of patients, they are sick of family members and they are not saving anything. It is true, then, what Mrs.Mato said at the time, when she stated on June 25, 2012: The Unity Act is unfeasible. You have considered the Unviable Unity Act from the outset and have done nothing to maintain and develop it. However, Mr Moreno Bonilla, then Secretary of State and now a candidate in Andalusia, said: I managed - I managed - to save the system of care for dependent people. Do you know what these managers tell you, this association? He's lying, he's swinging. Moreover, it cannot be customized, because I suppose it would not be a separate entity from the Government. And you know who told the truth too, probably the only truth he's ever said? Mr Rajoy in his last interview in 2011, before being elected: My priority, pensions; from there, everything will have to be cut. Dependent what needs to be done is to do what you can. I insist, it is the only truth you have said over the course of the time that you have been ruling this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. Mrs Montesinos has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support this motion, as it cannot be otherwise, because if we approved this initiative, what we would be doing would be dismantling the dependency system. In addition, we would be betraying the system improvement agreement that was adopted, not only with the Autonomous Communities, but with the entire Territorial Council of the Unit. This agreement is based on an assessment that you had to have made within three years of the law's coming into force and that you did not. Why? Because you did have us used to torturing, unreliable, and unscrupulous ways to modify the figures. You, yes, not this government. [[Applauds]] In this government, no one is ill-advising the minister. [[Applauds]] The minister is at all times using the corresponding figures, the figures that are real, absolutely reliable and rigorous. Furthermore, we are talking about a Government, the socialist Government, in which transparency and rigour are neither found nor found among its marks of identity. They reduced in 2011, among other things - after listening to you here this speech seems to be a lie - 234 million for dependency. [[Rumors]] And the result of that evaluation, what do we find? For we find what all Spaniards already know: seventeen different systems, 400,000 dependents plus, 2.7 billion expenses plus, 300,000 people on the waiting list, a lot of money being lost in the bureaucratic maze, a debt of 1,034 million euros in the social security contribution of the family carers and in addition the Court of Auditors in the valuation of the years 2007 to 2011 took the colors out to you, because about 25,000 files were duplicated, of which half of them corresponded to people already deceased who continued to receive the benefit. This Government solved it and recovered an additional €39 million for the unit. The data is not in any case made-up, as you have said, and of course, Mrs Carcedo, what is mathematical logic is that if the waiting lists are reduced is that more people are being incorporated into the system, you put it as you put it and you try to disguise it as you try to disguise it. But at that time when, according to you, we were playing in the Champions League, at that time when, according to you, it was the best time of economic goodness and splendor, when the Socialist Party ruled, at that time when Pedro Sánchez wanted to come back and remember what he had experienced, there were at that time the 300,000 people I told him on the waiting list. On the contrary, today there is an absolutely real government, a government that meets the needs of Spanish society, a government that has called for an effort from the Spanish people and that together with the Spanish people has been able to guarantee the system of dependence. Today there are 745,720 more beneficiaries, more than 300,000 people have been incorporated into the system since January 2012. I would like you to be happy with this figure, because this figure has names and surnames, and it corresponds to people who are benefiting today. Nearly 40% of the current beneficiaries have been incorporated into this legislature. Therefore, it is enough to defame and falsify the data saying that everything is due to those who have died. No, there have been 40% of those incorporated in these three years of the legislature. [[Applauds]] The waiting list has been reduced by 52%. The number of social security members of social services professionals has reached more than 357,000 and professional work has been prioritized against benefits. On the other hand, we have the other side of the coin, the one we do not like, in those autonomous places or communities where the Socialist Party still rules, in Andalusia. [[Rumors.-Protests]] For example, there unfortunately 34% of people are still on the waiting list waiting to receive the benefit and 35,000 dependents are lost while the rest of the autonomous communities are being incorporated. [[Protests]] [[Protests]] That is the reality of one socialist Government, that one and not another. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You spoke of the fact that it seems a lie that the website is hanging that is being financed through two laws. Of course, if you did, if that is an agreement of the year 2009, Zapatero government, it was you who were responsible for doing so, it was not another, we have not invented it now or much less. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Therefore, help yourself to reality. In 2009, the Autonomous Communities called for funding and agreement. [[Protests]] Yes, I know it bothers you, because there is nothing that hurts you more than in the end the responsibilities of a previous government. In any case, it is financed through these two and this Government is fulfilling, because we must remind all those present and those who are not at the moment, but who are listening to us, that dependence is shared between the Autonomous Communities and the Government, that is, 50% is the responsibility of the Government and the other 50% is the responsibility of the Autonomous Community. The government's doing it. There are autonomous communities, such as that of Andalusia, that are not fulfilling and, therefore, no more people are being incorporated into the system. [[Protests]] That is palpable reality and not another. [[Applauds]] In addition, from 2011 to 2013, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 11 billion for the unit. With this government - said by the Court of Auditors, not by Macarena Montesinos, a true and real data - 81 million more euros have been incorporated than in 2011. I'm finishing up. Local government. You said the law was hurting. That's not true. What it is doing is guaranteeing public service to citizens and financing it to municipalities that have so far served and are not receiving the corresponding funding. Grade I. Of course, the minister said so, ratified it and also that we comply with the laws, because other governments and other parliamentary groups probably did not. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the government has marked the red lines, that is, that no benefits or services were abolished - this was done - and that people with lower incomes did not have to provide. Today the Government has guaranteed the system. It has set up a more just, supportive and transparent system that guarantees quality, equity and sustainability by simplifying regulations, the evaluation process, improving the catalogue of services and services, increasing the quality of care, the number of professional services and strengthening care for children under three years of age. In short, you had put the system into absolute bankruptcy and today the system of dependence is not only sustainable, but it is guaranteed thanks to the efforts of all Spaniards and the effectiveness of this government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Mrs Carcedo, as there are several amendments, I ask you what your decision is with regard to them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u96	Mr President, I have already announced in my speech that I cannot accept two of the amendments, but the one relating to point 6. And if I may, I just want to inform Mrs. Montesinos that several evaluations were made of the Unit Act, including one by the official evaluation agency...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u97	Mrs. Carcedo, this is not the turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u98	For the Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policy and Quality of Services.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u99	I only give some time if there is a direct and personal allusion, but for opinions it is not time. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON ECONOMIC RECORDS TO BE DECIDED IN THE POWER [[Mr. Bosch]] POLICY AND TRANSPARENCY IN PUBLIC EXPENDITURE. [[File number 173/000199]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u100	We move on to the next motion, which will be the last one we are debating this afternoon. It is a motion of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on economic cuts to be made in political power and transparency in public spending. Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, could any of you tell me what the maximum amount that was paid with public money to a post of the General Administration of the State for a meal last year? Could any of you tell me what is the minimum and maximum amount that has been paid to an official or to a post of the General Administration of the State, with public money obviously, for staying in a hotel? Whether or not to answer this question depends on whether one can assess the degree of transparency of an administration and not only that, but also the real possibility of controlling public spending, because it is in the opacity where waste and corruption germinate and grow. I'll give you an example. In the past legislature, in the midst of a crisis, there was a minister who stayed in a hotel that cost 1,200 euros every night. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bankia cards, the trips, for example, of the former President of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Dívar, and many other cases showed the existence of abuses and waste of money by everyone, so we believe that the best and only way to prevent it is for expenditure to be public, that is to say, to be known and this is what we are demanding today with our initiative, which you must vote for or against. On the other hand, we call for clarification once and for all of the concept of subsistence allowance, which is charged by the General Administration of the State. What do we postulate? Very easy. We postulate that it is clearly defined what a diet is, that it is linked to an invoice, that it has a maximum cap and that it is endorsed by the institution that pays it, that is, that generic diets of 120 euros per day cannot be paid, for example, but that the institution pays the food or dinner by setting a maximum cap for it. We also call on them today to position themselves on the abolition of official cars, except in the cases - I repeat, except in the cases, which do not necessarily have to be few - that for security reasons it is understood and understood that these people must use an official car. And we also demand that you speak here today about business class travel, the Administration once and for all has to make the decision to buy only tourist class travel tickets. We also call for a bill to regulate public and private spaces. In this regard, we have been questioning for many years the existence of summer residences for, for example, members of some ministries, basically of the Ministry of Defence, but also of other ministries such as the Ministry of Health. This is a privilege that today has no sense to maintain. Finally, we also call for a review of the concepts - and this concerns you and myself directly - by which Members are remunerated, in order to ensure that compensation for the performance of their duties effectively meets the expenses incurred in connection with their duties. These are the points contained in our parliamentary initiative that we are going to propose that you can vote separately, so that you have the opportunity to discern what is what you are talking about and what is what you are talking about. We have read with great interest the Socialist Group's amendment and I must say to you that for us, and without failing to do so, this amendment does not say anything, and I want to be understood, when I say that it does not say anything is because, in our view, it does not say anything substantial, since it only speaks of promoting all the necessary measures, and today not going down to a second or a third level of practicality is not reception. That is why we are not going to accept the only amendment that has been tabled, that of the Socialist Group's colleagues, and I would ask them humbly that when they come up to the rostrum they tell us clearly whether they want to abolish official cars, yes or no; whether they want to end business tickets, yes or no; whether they want credit card expenses to be made public, yes or no; and whether they consider it necessary to end the privileges that some ministries have in relation to certain summer dependencies, yes or no. This is our parliamentary initiative and we hope that you will be receptive to these proposals, which is why we are going to ask that the seven points contained in our motion be voted on separately in order to ensure that you have the opportunity, if you think appropriate, to spell out the direction of your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. As Mr Tardà himself said very well, there is an amendment made by the Socialist Group. For your defence, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Allow me some general considerations that have a lot to do with what Mr Bosch said at the presentation of the inquiry. It begins to be a classic and one begins to be tired of seeing that many speakers come up to this rostrum showing great concern for the detachment of citizens and for the distance from the House's work to public opinion and, at the same time as they come up to worry about it, in the end they carefully feed that state of opinion by bringing some more layers of populism to these kinds of issues. I do not know if it is more the concern for distance or the desire to join that state of opinion that we are so critical of. I have said this once - and I have been harshly answered -, sometimes it is preferable for people who surround the Congress from the outside that people who come from the inside to undermine the elements of our political system as is sometimes done here, leaving out a lot of intellectual honesty, because this climate of opinion that we so much complain about, of detachment, in many of its manifestations is not as spontaneous as it is sometimes intended. This climate of critical opinion is nourished, cared for and recharged with all sorts of not always innocent information. For example, a couple of days ago I read a news with a headline in which the money that this Congress was spending in the care of its official cars appeared in outrageous terms, a matter that is not a matter of state but that provoked an alarmist headline about the money that was spent on washing official cars. When one counts the money spent by Congress, in the end the "astronomic" amount of 19 euros per month per car, i.e. one wash per month per car. However, the holder gave an impression that there was an absolutely disproportionate expense here. Therefore, not all this climate of detachment is a spontaneous climate. It is fed and unfortunately sometimes it is also fed from here, from the House. I do not want to tell you that your initiative is not sincere, but I believe, Mr Tardà, that it is not naive either, and it is not for the opportunity and it is not for the content. As for the opportunity, because Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has been a government party. Esquerra is not a tiny anti-system group, so that - if I may joke - I will tell you that this matter of official cars will surely be the only state structure that you do not want to imitate from the Spanish state, because ERC, as a government party, has had official cars. You have had official cars here in this House when you had your own group, and you have not given up on it, and you have had official cars for your government responsibilities in the Catalan Government and in the Catalan Parliament. By the way, some of the cases around which you said a certain scandal had started also affected a person in your party. I am referring to the cost of arranging Mr Benach's car from the Catalan Parliament. I am therefore very surprised that you, from a left-wing position and from a ruling party position, bring this kind of speech here, but it is your right and I accept it. The problem is not the car. The problem is the use of the car. I have been vice president of an autonomous community, such as Mr Carod-Rovira, and I did not think of using the official car to go and interview Perpignan of those who cannot come out of the public agendas that we so much claim to exist. Therefore, I do not know whether ERC's public offices have had official cards or housing, but I remind you that when there was a certain scandal over Mr. Benach's expenses in his car, ERC said that this type of argument was typical of the media on the Spanish right and that that issue of cars was an argument that had built the most rancid Spanishism. It saddens me to see a leftist party coming here to raise an argument that just three years ago was an argument of reactionary rightist Spanishism. I don't know if this issue of official cars is left or right, is nationalist or is Spanishist. It seems to me that it is the maximum possible argumental laziness. This issue of official cars is the zero degree of politics. In order not to leave Catalonia, do you remember what Mr. Pujol said? When a politician doesn't know what to say he proposes a road. Well, now when a politician doesn't know what to say in the end, he ends up talking about official cars. I'm going to its contents. As Minister Montoro has already said, this is a matter in which maximum savings represent a scale in absolutely small comparative terms, but the fact that it is a matter of a small scale does not allow a frivolous treatment of the subject. These themes which are sometimes symbolic deserve reflection and deserve more articulated proposals and less of a thick line, such as those you bring us here, Mr Tardà, because yours are of a thick line. But I want to make one thing very clear: absolute coincidence with you on the subject of transparency. We can differ in whether cars have to be safe or efficient, but we agree with you that there is maximum transparency for a public to know about the use of all these means. From that point of view you have our most unconditional support. What we cannot accept is this kind of non-justification of why some means have to have safety as their motive and not efficiency, for example. Do you know that your party in the Senate has amended the bill of high office to say that high office cars are used not only for security but also for efficiency? Why does ERC propose in the Senate that official cars also be so for efficiency and here only for security? What I ask you to do is to be consistent with your character as a party - which seems to me serious - of the left and institutional and not to play to feed from this rostrum a kind of discourse that is encouraging is the detachment from which we so much complain. Therefore, in this adequacy of the means to the ends, you have us completely at your disposal. In the use of transparent regulation and, as we say in the amendment - which is not to say anything, Mr Tardà, and I quote - to ensure and strengthen the application of the principles of transparency, austerity and efficiency, both in the courts and in the general administration of the State, in that kind of approach we have with you and in absolute transparency, too, but I think that we must be very careful with the type of speech that is being made here, with the type of argument that is being used and even with the type of vocabulary, because we are going to end up here calling each other caste, and I believe that we do not deserve that, even if there are those who are promoting that kind of language outside of us. You know, Mr. Tardà, why do I tell you this?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u104	Mr. Sanchez Love, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u105	I'm done, Mr. President. I need fifteen years of getting up and down from this rostrum, fifteen years of going to my province and coming back, fifteen years of going to meetings and acts to win what someone who calls me caste wins, for a secret report made in two months and of which we don't even know its content. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Amor. Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Group, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u107	I am speaking very briefly, Mr President, because this is a deja vu so many times during this parliamentary term and the past. It is one more - I feel that the one who defended it was my friend Joan Tardà - to point to the politically correct, to the campaign of the easy, to take the whip out and whip us all with how bad we are. Certainly, on the one hand, it is an absolutely unwashed motion. These particular leaves of the radish could be taken, but others could have been taken perfectly. Tomorrow we can do a contest to see who gets another one of this kind. On the other hand, I think things are being said that do not make much sense, because I suppose that basically what is intended is a saving to the state's coffers, and I do not know whether in some of the cases presented here you are thinking about that or simply the image and the paripé. Why do all official government cars have to be removed, except for those that have to be kept for security reasons? Any company, it does not need to be a big company, can have vehicles because it considers it necessary. Why is the government going to have to suppress this, if for certain services, between how it has to meet them, the time that can be lost and the expenses that may be incurred, perhaps it will lose more money? Why only for security reasons? Why is it so good to say that official cars are suppressed? I think we should do all these things more rigorously. I say the same thing about travel. Some would be surprised to know that tickets in the tourist class - compared to the kind of tickets we usually have Members, in which many times the changes are from one moment to another, they are open tickets - are more expensive, because those places are sold more easily, and after the institutional arrangements to which they arrive, those places are more expensive. All right. It will be very nice, very popular or very up to date on what is now being called for, but that would certainly not help the administration, the institutions, the State's coffers or the budget to be smaller. As for the detailed expenditure on credit cards, etc., we have recently requested this. The Basque Government has also responded to a question recently put to it. I am still waiting for the Spanish Government to give me the answer, I hope it will arrive as soon as possible and we will see whether we have to take any action from there or not. As far as compensation for the exercise of the function is concerned, I do not think we can find a formula in which it is a fair amount, but what I think we should all take into account in this House, clearly and without complexes, without trying to exploit populist waves without any meaning, is something we were also talking about in the first debate of today's sitting: we have to approve with Europe. Surprisingly, in some cases, the first conclusion to be drawn is that certain institutional positions, starting with the President of the Government, are not sufficiently remunerated. Let's not demagogue with all this stuff. I have seen many formations play with this and also some of the big groups, which began during past legislatures, but it is time to speak clearly, to speak wisely, to really pursue austerity policies regarding what is fair, logical and normal, but also, in other areas, it is time to register with Europe and not to demagogue about all this. I'm sorry it was my friend Joan Tardà and Esquerra who introduced this, but, really, Joan, she has neither feet nor head.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the sake of Progress Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking briefly to say that we, on the other hand, are very pleased that Mr Tardà, with whom we do not have too many opportunities to agree, proposes things with which our group not only agrees but also practices them. The first thing I want to say is that transparency - I have said it on other occasions - is not compulsory or prohibited, then, if it is not prohibited, it can be practiced, and the one who does not practice it is because he does not want to. Since there are many who do not want to practice it in this House - with a serious general prejudice to the prestige of politics and democracy - we agree with motions that make it a regulated practice. Moreover, as our group, for some reason that escapes me, has no official car - apparently they have it all and ours not, I don't know why; they must think that we don't need it, which is true, but neither do you -, we feel good that something that should actually enter the orbit of security is regulated. There are more issues that have not been raised here by Esquerra, but which we also find interesting and which would be good to collect in the future, as housing subsidies for Members who do not come by Madrid, but who already have housing in Madrid, which is obviously an abuse, in addition to many others. In short, since these are issues that our group practices and we have also called for to be included on numerous occasions, although it seems to us that this should have been raised in a more extensive, more detailed and more technically correct way, we are going to vote in favour very willingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr Nuet has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u111	Thank you, President. Today is the second time in this plenary that we have discussed these issues: before, in a proposal for a law of the Progressive Union and Democracy on the remuneration of public office and elected office and, now, in this motion of the Republican Left of Catalonia on the means used by public office and also elected office. Firstly, I think that we are not having a good debate, which is a really serious issue, and in both initiatives, the parliamentary debate, from my humble point of view, has not been able to live up to it. Looks like we weren't taking this seriously. [[Rumors]] It is true, to the proposed law that UPyD has proposed before or to the motion that Squerra Republicana de Catalunya has proposed we could add more things to them, we could improve them, but do you know what the problem is? [[The Rumors Continue]] That this House, in recent years, has had legislative moments when we have debated...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u112	Excuse me, Mr. Nuet. Please, please, silence for Mr. Nuet to be heard! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u113	I told you that in this House we have had legislative moments when we have discussed laws, we have discussed projects that talked about these issues and the end result has been disappointing. We therefore have a problem, ladies and gentlemen, that on the occasions when we had, in parliamentary committees and in plenary, the capacity to legislate, the capacity to regulate, we did it in a defective way from our point of view, and so now there are proposals for legislation and motions that continue to deepen in this debate, because it turns out that we have not resolved it or at least there is a very important perception of the public opinion in our country that we believe that the debate has not resolved it satisfactorily. Therefore, we are going to vote in favour of this motion, even though we would perhaps draft a motion in similar terms, but if we could, we would do so more broadly and precisely, but we did not run away from the debate, from the debate we did not run away: the debate is necessary, it must mark a political position and we therefore believe that it is a mistake to say that the motion could be better or that it is an attitude, we could say, demagogic. No, gentlemen, on the street this is not a demagogic debate, it is a real debate. People ask us and people worry about it and we have to take initiatives and, as Congress of Deputies, we should take initiatives on this issue and make better laws, better motions, of course we should. What are we talking about? We are talking about things that affect this House and also the Senate, yes, like official cars, because there are parliamentary groups that use them and parliamentary groups that do not use them. I am not saying that the parliamentary groups that use them are doing it wrong. I am not making this criticism at all, but it is a matter that we should discuss and regulate and possibly reach agreement. At the moment it turns out that no, that there are different criteria in the face of the same fact. Of course, with the issue of the salaries of Members and Senators, do you not come to the same conclusion as we do, that in the way in which we call the concepts we have on our payroll they lead to error and confusion? For we believe that it is, because many citizens who have had access to our payroll, when they see the concepts of remuneration, confuse many things, for example, that there are Members who charge an allowance to live, to have accommodation, when they happen to have a home in Madrid. It is a concept that we should perhaps put on the payroll differently and not allow that name to continue to exist that induces many people when I read it to believe that there are some Members who are pocketing money that does not belong to them. I repeat, I am not doing demagogy at all, I do not accept it at all. What I am saying is that this concept is better with regard to its regulation and conceptualization and that it is a mistake to run away from it. That's a mistake. We have to do this and we have to improve it. Then, of course, transport, diets, public spaces and media, the transparency portal, are better topics, ladies and gentlemen. Let us therefore improve this issue, we can do so and vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Tardà, I have read very carefully the debate on the question which is the result of the motion that we are debating today and which you have presented to us. I must say that from the title it could be deduced a content that would actually force the Government to introduce measures of calm in terms of transparency and reduction of the expenditure of the General Administration of the State. In the first case, in the last general policy debate - for example - many parliamentary groups put forward concrete proposals on transparency, on regeneration and on democratic quality. In the case of my parliamentary group, we proposed very concrete measures, from the creation of the register of so-called lobbies to the promotion of a reform of the Electoral Regime Act to promote a better connection between elected office and citizenship, among other proposals. Mr Tardà is also aware of all the measures that have been taken in Catalonia, mainly with the adoption of one of the most demanding laws on transparency, access to information and good governance in the whole State, which is currently being developed, or for example with the Reform Plan of the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia and its public sector. A good example of this is that last year the Generalitat obtained, in 2014, the first position and the highest score in the transparency index of the autonomous communities developed by the NGO Transparency International. Recently, the Catalonian Parliament has also agreed to abolish diets or compensation to senior officials of the Generalitat for their participation in boards of directors and other collegiate bodies of government or support to bodies and entities governed by public law. That is why, knowing everything that has been done in Catalonia with regard to transparency, the proposals that have brought us today in your motion could have been others, sincerely. Mr Tardà, if you intended to address the reduction of expenditure in the General Administration of the State, you could perfectly well assume a repeated claim from all the Catalan groups - also from you - that we have always defended, such as the abolition of the Ministry of Culture in accordance with the competence that corresponds to Catalonia, or the reduction to essential minimums of the peripheral administrative structures of the General Administration of the State, which exercise powers transferred to the autonomous communities, such as culture, but also of health, social assistance or internal trade, among others. We could colloquially call it a CORA contrary to what the current People's Party Government has launched with these re-centralizing impulses. This is what we hoped to find in your motion which we are debating today, measures of transparency, measures of reduction of the General Administration of the State and, Mr Tardà, feeling very much, has not been so. That is why we shall abstain today. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the People's Group, Mr Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of Esquerra, with the introduction of this motion you have beaten all the records of populism, you cannot be more demagogue. This motion is a perfect treatise on balance electoralism. The spokesman for the Basque Group has said that he has neither feet nor head. I agree with that assessment and, of course, we share that view with other political groups as well. Literature's going to leave it to you. I will only give you data in this intervention, ten data that refer to transparency and efficiency in the control of public expenditure in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we Spanish Members are the least charged from Europe. You can check it with a simple Internet entry. The budget of this House has fallen in the last three years by EUR 7.5 million. It is much lower than the cost of the French, Italian or British Parliament. The reforms we have promoted in the Spanish public administrations have resulted in savings of over EUR 18 billion in current expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 30% less official cars in this country if we compare them to the 2011 figure. In 2011 there were 921 official cars, now there are 652. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u118	Excuse me, Mr Gallego. I pray silently. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u119	The transparency portal has been launched so that any citizen can analyse and see the expenses of the General Administration of the State. There are no credit cards in the State Administration, let's tell you again, let's see if they find out: there is no, the expenditure on credit cards in the State General Administration is zero. They are once again mistaken in their motion. The Budget Control Office under this House has been set up. All salaries of the Administration have been limited. All senior government officials are required to make tax declarations of property and activities. All expenses on subsistence allowance and on behalf of the General Administration of the State are absolutely controlled by the Intervention. Ask any State official. Mr Tardà, if anyone has been betting on transparency and control of public money in this country, it has been the People's Party. Besides, Mr. Tardà, you're no one to teach anyone ethics lessons. You have no moral authority to give lessons of austerity, given that you have approved a budget in Catalonia which also collects some pearls and which collects some issues that do not speak very well precisely of expenditure control and austerity. I'm going to give you some examples, as you like to talk about salaries. The President of the Generalitat de Catalunya wins almost twice as much as the President of the Government of Spain. This is a fact and has voted in favour of Republican Left. Catalonia is now the autonomous government with more councils, with more advisers, which, by the way, earn between 60 and 90% more than the ministers in Spain. Another piece of information. They allocate EUR 19.7 million to international policy. They say they're opening fifty new embassies even though they don't have the competition. That's exactly what La Vanguardia says. [[Rumors]] Fifty new embassies, even though they don't have the competition. The Catalan Parliament has 26 more Members than the Andalusian Parliament, even though it has one million fewer inhabitants. TV3 has more employees than Antena 3, Telecinco, Four and The Sixth. [[Rumors]] The director of TV3 also earns more than twice as much as the president of the government. The president of TV3 today wins twice what President Rajoy wins, another example of austerity that he has had with the support and budget support of Esquerra Republicana a few weeks ago. 11.5 million have been spent on the creation of the own tax agency and the Catalan Social Security Agency, which are clearly illegal, as you have already said, but no matter what, you are spending 11.5 million on this concept. In addition, EUR 13 million has been spent on the 9-N consultation, a consultation that has served no purpose, EUR 13 million, while Catalonia remains the second autonomous community in per capita health expenditure. The Government of the Generalitat has spent 1.5 million on diets in 2014. Mr Picó, it is not true that no diets are paid in Catalonia, because diets are being paid. They continue to allocate 550 million euros a year for regional councils, an administration with very few competences but with countless Republican Left activists present in it. In addition, Catalonia remains the autonomous community with the highest taxes in Spain. Therefore, Mr Tardà, I insist, lessons, not one. Therefore, we will not approve this initiative because it comes from who comes from and of course it is loaded with demagogy, electoralism and populism. Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u120	Mr Tardà, although you have made it very clear, I ask you for formal purposes: shall we vote point by point on your motion? [[Consent]] Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. In a few minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to Mr Baldoví, who has asked me to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although I said this at first, in my first speech, I wanted to reiterate - now that we are all - thank you all, because I felt very much loved and appreciated in this House, despite the differences. To the doctors who launched themselves, who moved towards me, Pilar Grande, Carmen Montón, José Martínez, and Minister Ana Pastor; I would also like to thank the President of the Government and the President of Congress, who took an interest in me in the afternoon; and all the deputies and all the deputies and all the staff of this house. I say I'm lucky, because I've felt loved. I am already well, and with all my education, but with all my strength, I will continue to do my best to know the opposition I have developed so far. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that next Thursday, when we look at the points in the morning, and since there seems to be an agreement between the groups, point 33, which refers to the hydrocarbon bill, will be seen after point 30. I say so so that you may know, Your Honors.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u123	Let us now proceed with the votes. First, it takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group of the Union for Progress and Organic Democracy on transparency and rationalization of the remuneration system of members of the Government, the high offices of the General Administration of the State, and the other elected public offices. Six telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 plus 6 telematics votes, 308; 133 plus 1 telematics vote, 134; 164 plus 5 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u124	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u125	No bill proposed by the Group of the Plural Left on health exclusions in Spain following Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. The Socialist Group's amendment is incorporated. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 139 against, 161 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u126	It's rejected. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE FUTURE OF YOUTH EMPLOYMENT. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000575]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u127	No bill by the Basque Group, PNV, on the promotion of youth employment. It incorporates a self-amendment by the group itself and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour 133 against 165; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u128	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u129	Motion of the Socialist Group to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality on the situation, development and prospects of the system for autonomy and attention to dependence. The Catalan Group's amendment has been incorporated into point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 124 against, 164 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u130	It's rejected. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON ECONOMIC RECORDS TO BE DECIDED IN THE POWER [[Mr. Bosch]] POLICY AND TRANSPARENCY IN PUBLIC EXPENDITURE. [[File number 173/000199]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u131	Motion by the Joint Group, Mr Bosch, on economic cuts to be made in political power and transparency in public expenditure. It is voted on its own terms. You have seven points, so we will each vote separately. Point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 21 against, 165 abstentions, 117.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u132	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 117 against, 164 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u133	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour 126 against 165; abstentions 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u134	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 120 against, 165 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u135	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 20 against, 165 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u136	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 19 against, 166 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u137	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 121 against, 165 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-10-CD150310.u138	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and fifteen minutes of the night.
