ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u1	The meeting was called to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u2	This morning we were appalled by the tragic news of the aviation accident in the French Alps on the Barcelona-Düsseldorf route. In this terrible accident 150 people have lost their lives, including many Spanish citizens. In solidarity with all the countries concerned and as a show of affection for the relatives, friends and relatives of the deceased, I ask your ladies and gentlemen to keep a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u3	I would like to inform you that, on the floor of the Spokesmen's Committee we had only a few minutes ago, unanimously and on the proposal of the groups, we agreed that today we will see only one item, the first item on the agenda, and we will vote on it below. All the activities of the plenary will be suspended tomorrow, and on Thursday we will have the normal plenary, the one on the agenda, which will start at 9 a.m. and end at 5:30 p.m. or 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u4	We are therefore going to deal with this first item on the agenda, concerning the consideration of proposals for legislation. In particular, the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the second additional provision of Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities. To defend this initiative, Mrs Barkos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u5	Thank you, President. I will start, as it cannot be otherwise, by expressing my condolences, those of my group and, I am convinced, those of the whole House, and the affection of the victims' families in this unfortunate accident. I would like to point out that, as it cannot be otherwise, the decision of the Board of Spokesmen to defend this bill. In any case, I will strictly follow the arguments necessary to defend my group's position on this matter. Geroa Bai presents today this proposal of law for the reform of the Organic Law 8/1980, of 22 September, on the financing of the autonomous communities and, in particular, regarding its second additional provision referring to Navarre, which has remained unchanged since the approval... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u6	Please be quiet and listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u7	Thank you, President. As I said, we tabled this proposal to reform the second additional provision of the Lofca referring to Navarra, which has remained unchanged since the initial adoption of this rule, despite the fact that the institutional reality of Navarra has undergone changes, moreover in depth and in particular with regard to this matter, first of all with the approval of the Lorafna, of the improvement of the estate, in August 1982, and subsequently with the adoption of the Law of the Economic Convention, 1990 and subsequent amendments. What I am subject to today's consideration of your ladies and gentlemen is a brief but far-reaching reform of the recognition of the Navarro regime, and this is in addition to legislative work that had previously occurred, we would certainly have avoided many frictions between the central and outlying governments. This in substance, but that is also why in the form we have preferred to keep the debate, beyond criteria of parliamentary economy that could make reasonable... [[Rumors]] I can't do that, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u8	Please, I understand that circumstances are not easy, but I pray silence to be able to listen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u9	Thank you, President. As I say, in the form we have preferred to maintain the debate, beyond criteria of parliamentary economy that could make it reasonable to have included it in the reform that, after the one registered by Geroa Bai, brought the People's Party government last December 29 to this House of Reform of the Lofca. And I would like to stress this in a very special way because we would be concerned that such a reform could, would be carried out without the debate - and debate in plenary, of course - that a matter of these dimensions requires. I had previously pointed out that the reform we are proposing today could in all likelihood have avoided many of the frictions around the possibility of establishing unagreed taxes on the part of the Navarra Parliament, which have kept the central and outlying governments in the past years. But even more, I would like to recall that, especially during this parliamentary term, the disagreements between the two institutions in tax matters are resolved, among other issues, with two rulings of the Constitutional Court - the first of them in December 2012... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u10	Please, I'm asking for silence. If there is no silence, I will suspend the necessary time until there is. Go on, Mrs. Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u11	For the third time, thank you, President. The first of these, of December 2012 - it pointed out judgments of the Constitutional Court - and relating to the Foral Law on the tax of large areas, and the second of July 2014 and relating to the Foral Law on the tax of electric production, both, as I say, of particular importance. In both cases, the Constitution applies the Lofca to deny Navarra the power to establish unagreed taxes. Here's the thing. At the time of the trial of the Navarro tax system, the constitutionality block was represented by three rules: the Constitution itself, the Lorafna and the economic agreement, without the Lofca being applicable, given the clarity - I insist, at the time of its drafting and approval - of the second additional provision. But it is no less true that the lack of updating of the aforementioned additional second to the subsequent normative developments, both with the approval of the Lorafna and with the Law of the Economic Convention, has brought us here. For abounding in the need for the reform proposed today by Geroa Bai, I would like to focus on the 1990 Economic Convention Act - I insist, ten years after the Lofca - and particularly on the amendment of the convention itself, which is produced by law with 25/2003 of 15 July. This amendment adds a new point 2.2 to the text of the Convention, the text of which is as follows: The Foral Community of Navarre may impose taxes other than those agreed on the basis of the principles set out in paragraph 1 above, criteria for harmonisation, as set out in Article 7 of that Convention. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, since then, in 2003, the Navarra Parliament has been opened up to establish unagreed own taxes which the State already imposes on common system territory, provided that Navarra respects the Constitution, the Lorafna and the convention, that is, that it respects its constitutional bloc in tax matters. Under this premise - we will agree, ladies and gentlemen - it is not possible to apply two separate blocks of constitutionality to an outside territory. In particular, it cannot be argued that in some cases the Foral Community of Navarra is subject to the Lofca, while in others the constitutionality parameter in tax matters is laid down in the convention. This dichotomy was not wanted by the constituent or by the General Courts, which, I would like to remind you - I insist - sought the elimination of possible dichotomy or legislative antinomies at two very specific moments: first, when it approves the second additional provision of the Lofca in 1980, and second, in 2003, when it approves the amendment of the convention which expressly allows the Foral Community to establish taxes other than those agreed, subjecting this process exclusively to the limits of the convention itself. The reform of the second additional that we would now be subject to would leave the following wording for the second additional provision of the Lofca in the following terms: Under its foral regime, the financial and tax activity of the Foral Community of Navarre - this would be one of the additions - will be regulated by the traditional system of the economic convention, according to the provision - here the second addition - in article 45 of the Organic Law 13/1982, Lorafna. It will determine the contributions of the Foral Community of Navarre to the general burdens of the State, as well as the criteria for harmonising its tax system with the general regime of the State - and this is the third and final addition -. In particular, and in the case of taxes other than those agreed upon, it shall be exclusively as provided for in Article 2.2 of the economic convention currently in force. I insist that this is the proposal. At this point, I would like to point out the importance of referring the above-mentioned reform to section 45 of the Improvement Act, as opposed to other initiatives registered after this proposal and which refer the reform to section 39.1 of the Improvement Act. According to article 39.1 (a), Navarra is responsible for all the powers and powers that it currently exercises under the terms of the Covenant Act of 16 August 1841 and supplementary provisions. In short, if in the proposed reform we are referred to the powers and competences that Navarra exercised before the Lorafna was approved, and even more so before the reform of the 2003 economic convention, which recognizes the foral capacity to regulate unagreed taxes, we frankly do not understand very well what is being sought, because surely what is to be found is a reinforcement of the thesis maintained by the Constitution in the observation of the Lorfca as a block of constitutionality. But it is even more serious, continuing with article 39, to which the reform of the Lofca would be intended to refer, to say that it is precisely this article, specifically 39.1.c), in which the Constitution relies to apply the Lofca in these cases. In particular, it literally points out that Navarra has all the powers and powers that the State legislation assigns, transfers or delegates, on a general basis, to the autonomous communities or the provinces. I therefore urge you to warn of the seriousness of referring to article 39 of the Lorafna a hypothetical reform of the additional second of the Lofca, in addition to pointing out that an unnecessary conflict would be created between this provision and article 2.2 of the existing convention, which would, of course, be further aggravated if the - for Geroa Bai, since the announcement - unacceptable wording agreed between the governments of the People's Party and of the Union of the Navarro People's Party were to succeed when they decide to narrow the article with the formula of without prejudice to the provisions of the general law of the State. I repeat that we do not know where we want to go with initiatives like this, nor do we know where we want to go, but of course we are very afraid of an abrupt and unwanted end to travel for one of the fundamental elements of Navarro's self-government as is its convention. Ladies and gentlemen, to rely on the development of self-government on the ability to act only and only on the agreed taxes, to do so at a time when precisely that chapter of taxation goes backwards in the weight of revenue, is to close doors to the future, but to do so in addition by accepting in any case, in this case for Navarre, a situation of legislative and tax dependence on the central executive would seem to us no longer to be a fear, but an absolute irresponsibility. I therefore call for the vote to take account of the reform of the Lofca, and I do so with particular attention, as it cannot be otherwise, to the formations which in this House have representation of any of the outside territories, especially the five formations which have representation from Navarre. Ladies and gentlemen, today, especially to condition the decision in the vote to partisan interests and to deny the necessary correction of the law to Navarra citizens, will have serious consequences, and you know it, in the future of Navarro self-government. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. I apologize for the difficulties you have had in expressing your thoughts. Firstly, I have the floor for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u13	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Basque Group, I would like to convey solidarity and condolences to the families and friends of those who died in the plane crash this morning. I will intervene from the seat very briefly to determine the position of our group in relation to the proposed law presented by Geroa Bai. I recognize that this debate is excessively legal and, therefore, for me it is certainly not easy at all, but I believe that from the political, even intuitive, point of view the proposal for a law presented by Geroa Bai makes all sense. The proposal is a consequence of the last doctrine of the Constitutional Court regarding Navarra's normative capacity and its limits, which have stated that Navarra is subject simultaneously to two parameters of constitutionality: on the one hand, to the first additional provision of the Constitution, the Lorafna and the convention for those taxes agreed upon, that is, taxes having the same tax structure as the State; on the other hand, Title VIII of the Constitution and the Lofca for new taxes created by the Navarra Parliament in the exercise of its normative capacity. This destroys the argument on which Navarra forality has built its peculiar nature. We believe that these judgments that have generated this distortion should be corrected. Our group is therefore going to vote in favour of this initiative, which is what it wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish to begin by reiterating on behalf of my group our regret for the terrible plane crash that happened this morning, expressing our condolences to all the victims' relatives and friends. The bill that Geroa Bay brings us has two essential concerns. One, which we can share and which we call nominalist, is simply to change the name of Navarra to the Foral Community of Navarra, something that has no legal effect; it would be to modernise the terminology, to which we have no objection. But a second, much more fundamental objective is to completely disconnect the Foral Autonomous Community of Navarra de la Lofca, something we cannot share because it could lead to the taxing of the same taxable facts that are already taxing state taxes. We therefore disagree with the substance of that proposal. We also disagree, as you will not be surprised after more than three years of debate, about the concerns we have about the Navarro Foral Regime; our concerns are very different. What worries us is that these outlaw regimes, today, are an economic privilege for two communities already privileged because they are the first and third per capita income community in our country. These high per capita income communities have a positive fiscal balance, i.e. not only do they not contribute to the country's burdens but they receive resources from the rest of the country, and they have considerable over-financing, which experts point out at 60%. Imagine what it means to over-finance 60% year after year. The causes are also well studied. There are basically three causes of this economic privilege. Firstly, how to calculate the cost of state competences that undervalues that cost. It is negotiated politically, rather than technically. Secondly, how VAT is distributed, using consumption coefficients that are different from the actual ones. And, thirdly, because these communities do not contribute to the state's expenses of solidarity, only to the activities carried out directly by the State in its territories. Our fundamental concern is this, because it constitutes an economic privilege and totally absurdity the autonomous financing regime, because other communities - and specifically Catalonia - say: and why not me? And they are answered: because it is not generalizable, because if we did this, the state could not survive. Well, if it's not generalizable, it's a privilege. And if you can't match the rise, you'll have to rebalance, ending this method of calculation and this unjustified overfinancing. A second concern, which we do not share with the proposing group, is the lack of transparency of this whole system. We have had a very significant example in recent debates in the House, that of Volkswagen's VAT in Navarre; a matter of great silence, with a very important economic amount and which was decided in private and without any transparency. If it came to pass through this House it was only because there were groups that put forward motions on this issue, but if they would not have been behind closed doors without any transparency and the Congress of Deputies, leaving their sovereignty in a certain sense, in my opinion, they would not have participated or even knew these agreements. By the way, the IREF has recently pointed out this lack of transparency and the need to correct it. Thirdly, if we want to reform the Lofca, let's do it. In fact, we believe that we should urgently reform the Lofca in this legislature and not leave it for the next one, as the Government has done. But our funding proposal is very different from Geroa Bai's; we believe that this should be multilaterally negotiated because it affects all communities. We should end the principle of partial levelling to a principle of total levelling and the basic principle of reform should be the same per capita funding, using adjusted population data, i.e. taking into account that in some territories there is greater population dispersion, which implies higher cost of services, or more ageing population, which implies higher cost. With the exception of these service cost differentials, we are residents of the same country and are entitled to similar services; the system should provide similar per capita funding with differences only justified by geographical or demographic reasons. Why? For Jacobinism? Centralism? No, because such similar resources are in turn the ones that guarantee the provision of services of similar quality. This new system should be much simpler and more transparent than the current one and should lead to greater fiscal co-responsibility. If communities, once these basic services of equal quality are guaranteed, want to provide additional services, of course they can, they must do so but finance them by raising their own taxes. Finally, this reform should not fragment the Tax Agency because if we fragment it we will only be able to increase costs and make it less efficient in the fight against fraud. As you see, the concerns of the Progressive Union and Democracy are very different from those of the proposing group, and that is why our vote will be no to this proposal for a law. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for the Plural Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u17	Thank you, President. First of all, from La Izquierda Plural we would also like to reiterate our solidarity and support for the families of the victims of the air disaster that occurred today in the Alps. From our parliamentary group we will support all the proposals aimed at guaranteeing the self-government in tax matters of Navarre, as a right recognized in the Spanish Constitution and regulated by the economic agreement. Although Navarra has jurisdiction to regulate and approve its own taxes in direct taxation, there have been two judgments of the Constitutional Court in recent years that question this capacity. I am talking about two judgments that annul the outlaws creating a tax on large commercial areas and the production of electricity. From my group we believe that the Constitutional Court has maintained a clearly centralist legal orientation, saying that before approving Navarra these taxes should have been agreed and agreed with the State, with which Navarra, in fact, was subject to the Lofca, nullifying its competence to approve taxes other than those agreed, despite the fact that this jurisdiction has been covered since 2003 - as has already been said - with the amendment of the 1990 economic convention which incorporated a new article - 2.2 - by which the right of the Foral Community of Navarra to the establishment of taxes other than those agreed, is guaranteed, provided that they are not opposed to the international covenants, the criteria of fiscal harmonization and the contribution of Navarra to the State are respected. This proposal for a law by Geroa Bai seeks to restore and guarantee Navarra's powers in fiscal and tax matters, eliminating contradictory legislative interpretations, with a new wording of the second additional provision of the Lofca, which we think is absolutely reasonable, so we will vote in favour of its processing. We have learned that in the coming weeks the Government of the People's Party will refer to this House a bill to approve the updating of the economic agreement between Navarre and the State. This bill seeks to amend article 2 in order to ensure a clearer recognition of Navarra's ability to establish its own taxes on direct taxation. We have no doubt that this will provide sufficient guarantees for the future exercise of Navarre's tax autonomy, but it certainly represents a step forward, which we welcome. We will therefore support the convention, which can and should be, from our point of view, an instrument of inter-territorial solidarity, and we will reject the possibility of cutting back on Navarra's powers and regulatory capacity. From La Izquierda Plural we bet on the economic and tax self-government of Navarre and on the economic agreement and believe that this self-government cannot be understood as a privilege without denying in turn the constitutional framework that supports it. It is therefore a democratic right that we must defend and guarantee, while we must defend and guarantee solidarity between territories as an essential axis in our conception of a model of State and self-government, because we cannot conceive, ladies and gentlemen, of a self-government that does not incorporate the principle of solidarity with the rest of the State. From this perspective we will continue to fight and face the centralizing position of the Government of the People's Party, which maintains constant remedies against the Navarra laws before the Constitutional Court when they have a programmatic content of defence of basic rights, as has happened with the anti-discharge law or the law to guarantee public health care, as well as we will continue to maintain our position against the rulings of the Constitutional Court that are against Navarra's ability to pass its own taxes with direct taxes, as we have done with the annulment of the Foral Law of Taxes on Large Commercial Areas and the Foral Law of the Tax on Electrical Power Production. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot separate self-government and solidarity between territories because they are two sides of the same coin, so we defend and support Navarra's ability to use its own powers under laws and the constitutional framework to make left-wing policies that favour the social majority, while we will fight and denounce the attack that the People's Party Government is making on those laws that have been passed in the Navarro Parliament for their social and left-wing content. We believe that this bill will help to strengthen the fiscal and financial autonomy of the Foral Community of Navarre, so, as we have already announced, we will vote in favour of its processing. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Socialist Group, Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by conveying to the families of the victims our grief and condolences for this morning's terrible accident in the French Alps of the Germanwings plane. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the consideration of this proposal for a law amending the Organic Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities, Lofca. The purpose of this reform, which we share, is to defend the outside order as a basis of constitutionality, a question of certain legal complexity, as I will then explain, but which, as we all share in my group, aims to unify and reinforce the block of constitutionality that legitimises the forum, in order to avoid future problems of interpretation such as those we have recently known. It is necessary to avoid conflicts such as those generated by the different rulings of the Constitutional Court on the nature of the economic agreement between Navarre and the State. Ladies and gentlemen, the debates we held in this House on 14 October and 17 December have shown that the conflicts we have experienced in this legislature are incompatible with the nature of the outlaw system and also with its reason for being agreed. Never since we are in democracy had there been such a difficult time for the self-government of Navarre as the one lived in this legislature, nor had there ever been such a deep gap between the Government of Navarre and the Government of the State as it has opened up in this legislature; two governments, one of the Navarro People's Union and the other of the People's Party, which have broken the tradition of peace and institutional loyalty that require dialogue and trust between the two in order to work together for the common interest. In these debates my group asked for the following; first, the review and withdrawal of the remedies to the Constitutional Court imposed by the central government against the laws adopted by the Parliament of Navarre, as approved by the Foreign Chamber in September last year; and second - we ask above all in the December debate - to proceed with the adaptation and reform - although not to mention how - of the second additional provision of the Lofca because of its pre-existing nature to the Organic Law on Reintegration and Improvement of the Estate. It should be remembered that the Lofca was adopted in 1980 and the Lorafna, our basic constitutional law in Navarre, in 1982 to guarantee in the block of constitutionality the full recognition of the foral regime Navarro as well as the status of the foral community of Navarra and all the necessary modifications to, for example, guarantee the recognition of Navarra to regulate its own taxes. Also then we call for the updating of the economic convention for the 2015-2019 five-year period to be undertaken as soon as possible within the negotiating committee of the economic convention, and that has already happened. This update was closed on 17 February and even this new convention has already been ratified by the Parliament of Navarre in a debate which took place on 27 February; a debate which we will also have here soon and which my group, as I have already said, will support with its vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic agreement is an instrument and a fundamental part of the self-government of the Foral Community of Navarre. That is why we must welcome the agreement reached, especially given the context in which it has taken place; a non-favorable context of confrontation, of conflict and in which it is clear that the People's Party - as other speakers have already said - is advocating more than ever for a re-centralisation of the autonomous state which also affects the Foral Community of Navarre. The text of the new agreement, of a peaceable nature, as it cannot be otherwise because this is what the Constitution says, is good not only because it resolves the conflict between Navarre and the State over Volkswagen's VAT, which has already been mentioned by other spokespersons, but also because it introduces amendments that must be taken into account from now on both for those who want to appeal to the Constitutional Court Navarra rules, since they will have to think more because that will make it difficult, as for the Constitutional Court itself in establishing its own interpretations of future laws. Although that is not the subject of today's debate, as my colleague Juan José Lizarbe argued on 27 February in the Parliament of Navarre, with the new agreement there will be fewer arguments to appeal and the Constitutional Court will have to measure its judgments more. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Constitution and the Lorafna define a rich and immense field of democratic play. That is why we want to welcome from the Socialist Group the normalization of the debate on what constitutes the constitutional framework for the definition of jurisdiction, and I am also referring to the proposing group. The legitimacy of the forum is constitutional, reflected in the first additional provision of the Constitution, by which the historical rights of the outside territories are protected and respected. It should be remembered that the Constitution was endorsed in Navarre by 75% of voters, who constituted more than half of the electoral census at the time. So, welcome all to constitutional normality because only my group, the Socialist Party, of all the groups that have intervened today, defended the Constitution unequivocally, only the Socialist Party in Navarre. I'm finishing up. Alongside the new agreement, which clarifies doubts and eliminates uncertainties, there is undoubtedly a broad consensus in Navarre on the need to amend the Organic Law, the Lofca, as we have said. There is also, Mrs Barkos, as you well know, a rich debate on how to reform the Lofca; an open debate in which my group does not yet have a definitive position. As we said earlier, when the Lofca had been approved, the Lorafna had not yet been approved. Navarra was then not an outlaw community and the first additional of the Constitution legitimized our outlaw order and the convention, even going back to the Covenant Law of 1841. The Lofca collects this reality before the Lorafna. It is also relevant to recall the reform of the convention through Law 25/2003, which clearly recognizes Navarra's power to establish unagreed own taxes. In short, we stand for everything that we voted on in December and that the People's Group fell down with its vote because we voted on the reform of the Lofca in that regard in December and the People's Group opposed it; I hope it will not do so today. There are several possibilities for reforming the Lofca; this, which we are defending today, was registered by Mrs Barkos in advance of the agreement of the new convention, a commendable initiative based on Article 45 of the Lorafna, as she states. It is true that there is another living initiative in this house, registered by direct amendment to the Lofca - which is also being reviewed in this House - drawn up by Mr Salvador, which is based on Article 39.1a of the Lorafna. Both deserve to be studied, but no doubt there may be other feasible alternatives, it would even be possible to integrate both and refer to the two articles. This has generated a wide legal debate between recognized Navarro jurists and other autonomous communities; I have already mentioned Juan José Lizarbe, but there is also Don Fernando de la Hucha, Don Simón Acosta or Don Juan Cruz Alli. I think it is very important to accept this issue and among all, because the nature of the forum is agreed, to agree on a reform of the Lofca that will satisfy everyone, since it must be the basis of foral development and self-government in Navarre in the coming decades. For this reason, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. For the People's Group, Mr Pérez Lapazarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to express, on my behalf and on behalf of my group, our condolences and our grief to the families of the victims of the unfortunate air accident. It is for me to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group in considering a proposal for a law submitted by the Joint Group, which seeks to amend the Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities. Geroa Bai, on her own initiative, through the argument put to us by Mrs Barkos, asks to amend the second additional provision of the Lofca in two small paragraphs affecting Navarre and its financial and tax activities. The first thing I would like to say is, in my opinion, the strangeness of the way in which we proceed and the interpretations we make of our autonomy, of our improvement, of the economic agreement and of the way in which everything that affects Navarre and our outside regime is being handled. They will have to explain why today they ask with this consideration that the Lofca be modified when precisely this law is found since December in the Congress of Deputies for its processing and reform. They will have to explain why they have had two months, from December to March 17, to make some amendments. They have presented absolutely none, when they could have presented some that would pick up what they are asking for today in the consideration and even in some other issues, but they have not. And I wonder, if you had such an interest in modifying the Lofca, why have you not presented what you are asking for in this initiative today in the process that is currently in operation? It is strange that they resort to this procedure of consideration and do not follow what other parties in our outlaw community have done, which have tabled amendments to this law. What I have in mind with this way of acting is that they intend to take outlaw photos with proposals that have more to do with the media noise than with the aim of solving the possible errors of interpretation of this law that affects our outlaw regime. The second point I would like to make is that, regardless of whether we do not follow the ordinary course, what we are proposing is, in my view, out of time and out of context. I'll explain it to you. The initiative was presented, as you said, on 5 December last year. Precisely before the meetings of the negotiating committee of the economic convention, they presented it, which took place on 21 January and the approval of the reform of the convention was on 17 February. They presented this initiative without really knowing how taxation and the problems that arose or were going to arise in the negotiating committee; without knowing how it was going to be agreed and how it was going to try to resolve the conflicts that existed and without knowing what results were going to be achieved in the meetings that had been announced previously. In my view, it would have been prudent and logical to wait and see what was coming out of the negotiating committee and, depending on what had come out, to act accordingly. It would have been appropriate to check how the tax doubts between the State and Navarre were resolved, which had been raised as to whether or not the limits set in the Lofca to the power of the Autonomous Communities under the common system for the creation of new taxes were applicable in Navarre. Perhaps, with this way of acting, they wanted to forget the debates and the adoption of the motion that took place on 15 and 16 October last year, when we debated and adopted an important motion for the Navarra taxation that precisely Geroa Barai voted against. In its point 2.2 - I will read it almost textually - it said: To support within the negotiating committee of the next economic agreement between Navarre and the State the introduction of the normative clarifications that are necessary to reaffirm the validity of the second additional provision, which states that the financial and tax activity of Navarre will be governed by the traditional system of economic agreement in accordance with article 45 of the Law on Improvement. I mean, what that motion was proposing is similar to what you proposed and what Geroa Bai voted against. Today we are presented with this consideration which comes to say something similar and, with this, in our opinion, intends to wash the face. Today I can tell you that the State-Navarra meetings have been fruitful. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u22	I'm sorry, Mr. Pérez Lapazarán. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u23	As you know, agreements were reached both on 21 January, within the negotiating committee of the convention, and on 17 February, when the amendment to the Navarra-State economic convention was approved. As a result of these agreements, that motion which we approve by resolving conflicts such as VAT, by resolving conflicts such as the production of electricity, the taxation of bank deposits and others such as the adaptation of the agreement to the replacement of the health cent by the autonomous surcharge in the hydrocarbon tax, as well as others concerning the retention of the special tax on lottery prizes and the amendment of the tax rule of the tax groups will be complied with. All this was done without changing the Lofca, simply with political will. I'm going to tell you something that I think is important. In the next Commission procedure in which the Lofca is dealt with, if there is any doubt, our parliamentary group and our Government are prepared to correct all possible dysfunctions in this area. I therefore believe that maintaining this initiative when this same law is being processed has no other purpose than to try to justify itself and present itself before the Navarra society as the first defender of the furo. I would also like to say that we welcome the fact that the explanatory statement recognises the validity of the improvement of the forum and of the economic agreement regime and calls for the maximum legal guarantees for Navarra foraality. We, too, have done so since the PP, but it is surprising in this explanatory statement that article 2.2 of the economic convention, which leaves Navarra's power to create new taxes other than those of the State and those expressly provided for in that article, is interpreted as leaving it in the hands of the Government. In our view, the interpretation you make and which is contained in that explanatory statement is absolutely wrong. Finally, I would like to state that it is incongruous for Geroa Bai to raise the flag of forality as if our fury were wounded to death by the neo-centralist action of the People's Party government. Our fury has other risks and other threats. In this sense, I remind you that a few days ago you stated in Pamplona that you would vote yes to the integration of Navarra in Euskadi and you know that if such a thing happened Navarra would lose its status as an outlaw community and therefore its bilateral relationship with the State. Our economic agreement would run the same fate as the concert of the Basque Country and the foral autonomy of Navarre would be reduced to the same condition as the forality of the historical territories of Álava, Guipúzcoa and Vizcaya, subject to the power of the Basque Parliament and Government. In this hypothetical case, Navarra would cease to be one of the most self-governing communities in the European Union and would move to another situation that is very different from what we are defending from the People's Party. This, in my opinion, is a real risk to the experience of the past in Navarre. For all these reasons, we will vote against this consideration. We believe that in dealing with the Commission we will be able to assess, act and modify everything that might give rise to some kind of doubt, but in this case we will not vote in favour of its consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Lapazarán. We'll vote in a few minutes. [[Pause]] We shall proceed to vote on the adoption of the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Barkos, which amends the second additional provision of the Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities. There are four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 297 plus 4 telematics votes, 301; 138 plus 1 telematics vote, 139; 158 plus 3 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-24-CD150324.u25	Consideration is rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was five and ten minutes in the afternoon. [[*******page with picture **********]]
