ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u1	The meeting was resumed. Questions to the President of the Government. He asked, first of all, Mr Aitor Esteban, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u2	Good morning, Mr. President: What is the balance of the legislature doing?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u3	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban, in the investiture speech in this House I set as a great objective for the legislature - I read textually - to stop the bleeding of unemployment, to grow and to create employment. I think it has been achieved although it is clear that we must continue to persevere. Spain then had negative growth of less than 2, today it has a positive growth of 3%, the largest in Europe. Unemployment then rose by 9% a year, now falling by about 8% a year and is the European Union's country where unemployment is falling the most. Export data, tourism, trade, credit, etc., etc. are much better than at the time. All this has been the product of many reforms. It has also been the product of expenditure control that has been done in this legislature. It has been hard and difficult, but we have managed to maintain the welfare state, pensions, unemployment insurance; we have done the operations of the FLA and of suppliers who have served to maintain public services and today, after all those decisions, in addition to growing and creating jobs, we can already lower taxes, continue to raise pensions and, for the first time, even modestly, raise the salaries of public employees. The balance sheet from that point of view is therefore positive. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u6	It is a complacent self-balance that I fear does not share any other House spokesman other than that of the People's Party. But, of course, you may not know this because yours has not been precisely the dialogue: with me you have never met; as with any - or most - of the speakers in this House. I will tell you that Spain triples the average unemployment rate of the thirty-four OECD countries and that we are about 20%, the same rate with which you started your legislature; that the number of poor workers continues to grow, because having a job no longer protects from poverty. His Government had been one of the three wrongs: cuts, recession and re-centralization; it had led us to snipe, with rope around our necks, all citizens by severing benefits rather than staggering the debt further. His Government has been that of the Gürtel, that of Bankia, that of Bárcenas - if the latter would have caused the immediate fall of the Prime Minister of any country with a minimum democratic pedigree -; it has been the Government of the fiscal amnesty, that of the excessive judicial fees, that of the approval of budgets to rollers, that of the decrees-laws innumerable ning to this Parliament including the famous decree 8/2014, which changed from a feather twenty-six laws with a blow; his Government is the one that has amortized the Universal Justice, has imposed the life imprisonment, the law gaggle, that of the unilaterality of the Lomce. [[Rumors]] It is his Government that has not united the historical memory, that of the theoretical transparency: the government of the theoretical transparency that hid a report on human rights in Spain. It is your government that has created a disaffection in Catalonia to which, being of political content, you only respond with courts and threats, desiring that 60% of citizens want to be consulted about the status of Catalonia. His Government was that of the thirty-six appeals against Euskadi's powers, which sought to prevent the Ertzaintza's calls, which tried to prevent the integration of autonomous police officers into the European police information networks. It was his Government that did not respond to the Lehendakari's proposals thus denying the agreement; it had re-centralized the State through broad cross-sectoral legislation; it had done nothing to improve coexistence in Euskadi after the end of the violence; and it had left its own party with more factions than the Syrian war at the gates of the elections. It's about time this legislature was over, Mr. President! [[Rumors and applause.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u7	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Rumors.]] Quiet, please. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u8	My Government is a Government of a country, Spain, of which the International Monetary Fund has just said that it is the G-20 country that will grow the most with the United States. [[Rumors]] My Government is a Government that, when it came to being so, saw Spain in recession and negative growth and today is positive. At that time Spain was the country that generated the most unemployment throughout Europe and today it is the country that grows the most. My Government is the Government that has made the most structural reforms in the last 40 years in our country. My Government has made a fiscal consolidation effort by cutting the deficit by half. My Government is a government that in Catalonia has told you that not to those who wanted an economic system like the one you have - you can give the opinion you think is appropriate and convenient - and that you have said that not to call for a referendum against national sovereignty by defending the Spanish Constitution and what all the Spaniards decided in their day. My Government is the Government that has invested 2.3 billion euros in the Basque Y, the largest investment ever made in the Basque Country. [[Give it up.]] My Government is the Government which, naturally, has not done what you have said on many occasions, but which has agreed with you some things - in terms of market unity, in terms of energy, has agreed on new taxes - but it is clear that we do not attend to many of the things that you wanted to do... [[Prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPING AND DEMOCRACY OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU INSIST THAT WITH THESE BUDGETS YOU WILL COMPLETE THE OBJECTIVE OF THE DEFICIT ESTABLISHED BY BRUSSELS? [[File number 180/001423]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u10	He also asked the President of the Government, by Mrs Rosa Díez, of the Group of the Union for Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u11	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, are you saying that Spain will meet the deficit target with the budgets approved yesterday?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u13	Mrs Díez, I am absolutely convinced that, as we have done in all the years we have governed, we will meet the deficit targets with the budgets approved yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u14	Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u15	Thank you, President. I recognize you, Mr Rajoy, that you are faithful to your principles. He started the legislature by lying and ends the legislature by lying. [[Protests.]] In your first speech in this legislature, in the investiture debate, you lied when you said that there was no corruption in Spain. He then lied when he said that there was no corruption in his party and they put his treasurer in jail; then he lied when he said that there was no B box in his party and that there was no illegal financing in his party, and Judge Ruz determined that there was B box. He lied when he said he was going to maintain the purchasing power of pensions: there are 3 points that have been lost in these years. He lied when he said he was going to lower the receipt of the light, every day he keeps going up. He lied when he said that being President you would not hold a consultation in Catalonia and the consultation was held and you remain President. He's lied every time and every time he's had a chance. He lied when he said he wasn't going to rescue Spain; he rescued the financial system and put us to meet 32 points. He lied when he said he wasn't going to give a single public euro to the financial system and to the savings banks, and we've got 187 billion or something because I'm already missing out on this issue as well. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u16	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u17	He lied when he said they were going to lower taxes and raised taxes. You have always lied, as long as you have had the opportunity, Mr Rajoy, you have lied in this House and to all the Spaniards. Look, President, look Mr Rajoy, the lie is your weakness and without truth there is no democracy that deserves such a name. It is a shame this legislature, a penalty of universal deception. A pity for Spain. [[Protests.]] Yes, it is a pity for Spain to have a president who lies every time he speaks and lies to the Spaniards, and therefore discredits democracy. [[Strong Protests]] Mr Rajoy, this is your legacy: more inequality, more poverty, more corruption and lies, many lies. The worst, Mr Rajoy, is not the measures; the worst is the lies. About lies nothing can be built. [[Rumors and protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Please, I beg your silence. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u19	It's not easy to answer, Mrs. Díez. Hey! I'm not going to talk about his party because I think I should be generous; I'm not going to talk about his legacy because he's there, but I am going to recommend him for his future life, if I may, a little humility because that would make him a little better. [[Laughs.]] [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES YOU THINK THE BUDGET PRESENTED FOR THE NEXT YEAR IS Strict and CREIDIBLE? [[File number 180/001426]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u21	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Rajoy, we are at the last plenary session of this legislature. Do the Spaniards a favor and tell the truth. [[Several Members: Oh!]] Tell the truth even if it's only once in this legislature. Do you consider that, after the opinion of the European Commission, the budgets are credible and rigorous? [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u23	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u24	I will listen to you, Mr Sánchez, and I will tell you the truth: I consider you absolutely, they are credible and rigorous. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u26	Mr. Rajoy, you lie more than you talk, lie more than you talk. [[Protests]] That has become clear to the Spaniards. Mr. Rajoy, you were the leader of the opposition... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.- Rumours.]] Don't worry, don't worry. When he was leader of the opposition he said that a president of the government has to govern for everyone and he always has to tell the truth, and when he arrived in La Moncloa he forgot that maxim, Mr Rajoy, because he has done quite the opposite: he has used the institutions and used the General Budgets of the State, not only these but those of the entire legislature, for partisan purposes and not for the general interest of the Spanish. You started the legislature by delaying the General Budgets of the State to hide from the Andalusians the cuts that you were going to apply and you ended the legislature by advancing the General Budgets of the State to try to hide from the Spaniards the cuts that you would eventually apply if you continued to be President of the Government, which, Mr Rajoy, is not going to happen. [[Protests]] The European Commission has been very clear, has uncovered its lies in relation to the general budgets of the State, and what has been known is that you lie to Brussels just as you lie to the Spanish with the general budgets of the State. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Rajoy. The truth is completely different, the truth is, Mr Rajoy, that over the last four years public debt has increased by EUR 300 billion. The truth, Mr Rajoy, is that you, you, have failed every year to meet the public deficit targets you had set with Brussels. [[Rumors.]] The truth, Mr Rajoy, is that you have cut the welfare state by 20 billion euros while increasing the middle class's taxes by 23 billion euros and taxing your party partners. [[The rumors continue.]] The truth, Mr Rajoy, is that with your cuts what you have done is that EUR 30 billion of the Social Security Reserve Fund, i.e. the pension fund, is being evicted. Mr Rajoy, as of December 20, a new political stage will be opened in this country presided over by a government... [[One Member: Zapatero!- Several Members say words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u27	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u28	...that respects the majority of the working middle class that you have punished and forgotten, and a president of the government, Mr Rajoy, honored, honored; also honored not to lie to the Spaniards, as you have done over the past four years. [[Prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u30	Mr Sánchez, the truth is that you are not in a position to give any lessons, not to me but to anyone, because you created the public deficit - 9 % when we arrived at the government - and you opposed all the decisions we take in this House to reduce the public deficit. The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that Spain is the G-20 country that has reduced the primary deficit the most in the last four years. The truth is that at first we had to do it, that was the situation that we were left with, with reduced spending and tax increases. It was hard, but now we do it with economic growth, with job creation and with tax cuts. The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that you cannot talk about the public deficit when last year three points were diverted, which is the biggest deviation in the history of any country in the European Union. The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that we have made a budget that allows us to continue to raise pensions, as we have done, every year and not as you did who froze them, that we have raised the salary of public employees this time and that we have been able to lower taxes. [[Protests]] The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that when we arrived at the Spanish Government, it was in recession and is now the fastest growing country in Europe. The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that when we arrived at the government, unemployment increased at the rate of 9% per year and we are now the country of Europe where the most jobs are being created. [[Rumors.]] The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that we have reduced in recession the public deficit you created in four years. The truth, Mr Sánchez, is that the European Commission has not asked us to correct the budget. [[Protests.-Several Members: Oh, no?]] No, no, He hasn't asked us to take corrective action. They haven't been able to read the papers well. [[Protests.]] He said the same thing he said in the years 2013 and 2014, and the European Commission has stated that Spain this year 2015 is going to make a 1.3 reduction in the public deficit and puts it as an example of correct action and compliance with the excessive deficit procedure. [[Rumors.]] Mr. Sánchez, you left a country on the verge of rescue, on the verge of bankruptcy, in recession and unemployment. We have managed that once again and, therefore, the best thing that can happen to Spain is for you to remain there in the opposition for many years. [[Several Members: Well!-Extended applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing.-The President of the Government, standing, applauds the ladies and gentlemen of your parliamentary group.-The ladies and gentlemen, standing, applaud the President of the Government and his parliamentary group.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u31	Thank you, Mr President of the Government. [[Mr President of the Government leaves the Chamber.-The ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, making gestures with their hands: Goodbye, goodbye!]] - OF THE DEPUTATE, DON ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE MEANS OF COMMUNICATION OF STATE TITULARITY? [[File number 180/001427]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u32	Let's get back to the question. [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived.]] She asked the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency. It is formulated by Mr Antonio Hernando of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are applause that sounds like funeral marches. [[Laughs and applause.-Protests.-A honourable Member: Yes, sir!]] One of the first steps you took, through of course a decree, when you arrived at the government was to change the system of election of the president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. They put a professional companion of theirs, landed Telemadrid's professionals in Spanish Radiotelevision, eliminated the public service control body and, as early as September 2014, there were 1,500 Spanish Radiotelevision professionals who reported that it was used as a government propaganda body. In October 2014, a year ago, they elected Don José Antonio Sánchez to the head of the corporation, who then came here to say that he was a faithful voter of the People's Party; he changed the leaders of all areas and, as a result, there was a sit-in of all the professionals in the writing. In April this year - a long time ago - Spanish Radio Television professionals denounced manipulation before the European Parliament. After all that, do you consider that the government has guaranteed the independence of Spanish Broadcasting, Madam Vice-President? [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u34	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. The problem, Mr Hernando, is that your concept of political independence, at least that of your group, is totally mixed with that of transfuguism, with which, forgive me, I do not quite understand what you have asked me today. [[Laughs and applause.]] When we arrived at the government, Your Honor, Spanish Radio Television had been without a president for a year and we had to change the system to avoid political blockade. You now sign a manifesto with some groups, but let me tell you that to be a spokesman you do not know everything that happens in the Socialist Party, because the system that governs now is the same as that applied by the autonomous leaders of the Socialist Party where they govern: in Castilla-La Mancha Mr García-Page - which remains one of their own, although I do not know if for a long time - he said it and changed it to avoid the blockades; in Asturias they changed to the same system as the state one a year ago; and also where they do not govern, because Mr Gabilondo, who is still in his ranks, has proposed this system for Telemadrid; and even where they ruled, because the PSC, when they were in the tripartite, also opted for this state system; the problem is that there they did not appoint an independent, they named an independentist, and of the TV3 independentists in the tripartite we are now in these muds. [[Rumors.]] Therefore, Mr Hernando, study a little more what the Socialist Party is doing, because if you propose so much and sign so much, you do not realize that I do not know independence, that little, but the political inconsistency is the greatest that I have seen, and I have here some legislatures. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u37	Look, Madam Vice President, the socialist government left a model in which the president of the corporation was elected by a qualified majority and last week all the parties, not only those of this House but all the parties in Spain, signed this statement of the Spanish Broadcasting Information Council, which has two very clear points: the first is to respect the independence of Spanish Broadcasting and its plurality, and the second is to legislate to elect the president by a qualified two-thirds majority. [[Show a document]] See how far the thing that this information came was censored in La 2 Noticias de Radiotelevisión Española by the management. [[Rumors.]] The manipulation and bad practices on Spanish Radio-television have been recognized by the International Press Institute and the Council of Europe. You have mixed the interests of the party with the interests of the citizens; let's say that in Spanish Radiotelevision you have gone hand in hand, you have gone too far. That is why you cannot sign such a compromise, Madam Vice-President. Aren't you ashamed that you're the only party that won't sign this? Are you going to continue handling Spanish Radio Television until the nausea as it has so far? Aren't you ashamed to be alone in this with yourself? [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hernando, first of all, we are not the only party that has not signed it, because there are others even if you want to hide it. And second, Mr Hernando, if you want to be credible, change the system in Castile-La Mancha and Asturias, and then we will give some credibility to your proposals. [[Give it up.]] Thirdly, do you want to know the model they left behind? They left a model without president of the corporation, at all blockage. They left a model to pay for an employment regulation file of 4,500 workers that we will be paying the Spaniards until 2022; it's 500 million in this legislature; they threw out 4,500 workers that I imagine will be just as professional and independent as the 1,500 they took back. What we have done has been to cover up all the hole you left on Spanish Television, in these budgets, 100 million, which you did not vote for. And, Your Honor, I don't tell you any more because I don't have time and also for one thing: because your greatest critics - yes, Mr. Hernando, smile at me - you have them in exit posts on the lists to Congress, Your Honor, with that I tell you everything. [[Several honourable Members. All right!-Extended applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON FELIPUS JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DO YOU THINK THE MEASURES IMPLEMENTED BY YOUR MINISTER WILL BE EFFECTIVE TO FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/001429]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u41	Questions to the Minister for Justice. He asked, first of all, Mr Felipe Sicilia, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on 15 October last year in the Committee on Justice you said the following: We will present a draft agreed with the professionals, with the sectors of doctrine and also with the prosecution and the judiciary to carry out a reform of the criminal procedure. A year later, Minister, the Criminal Procedure Act was passed without any agreement: without the agreement of the judges, without the agreement of the prosecutors or lawyers, without the agreement of this House. And what is more important, Minister, do you believe that by limiting the times of judicial investigation or by giving folder to more than 1,400 summaries of political corruption that are currently under investigation, do you believe that this can be done against corruption? [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u43	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u44	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I believe that the fight against corruption has to do with a set of measures not only with one, but with many that have been adopted by this Parliament and by this government throughout the legislature. I am therefore sure that the situation in which we are today is much stronger, much stronger and we have many more instruments in the fight against corruption; of course we do. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u46	Minister, I am sorry to say that the reform that you have approved is not going to serve this purpose, and I and my group are not saying this to you, but rather to you by the Professional Association of the Judiciary, which criticizes the rule and asks you to amend it. Six associations of judges and prosecutors are being asked to do so, who have jointly told him that this law is a final law and are therefore asking him to suspend its entry into force. It has been said by the State Attorney General himself, who has warned that this rule is a problem and speaks of a dark wording. Mr Minister, the entry into force of this reform is, of course, a complete nonsense. Therefore, listen to judges and prosecutors and seek the consensus that you were talking about just a year ago, because, if not, we will think that you are not seeking to pursue corruption, but to put obstacles to justice. Justice can be hampered by destroying a hard drive with sensitive information or limiting instruction times. Justice may be obstructed by not providing information to the judge requesting it, the judge sends the police to the PP headquarters because he had information that he had not yet provided to the court despite requiring it. The courts can also be obstructed or the fight against corruption can be obstructed by trying to resolve a thousand and four hundred cases that are still open. Minister, listen to judges and prosecutors, postpone the entry into force of this rule because it may mean that many corrupt people will go unpunished. Minister, they say that justice is blind, but the citizens will not and you will judge them on December 20th, and I am convinced that they will condemn you and punish you on the opposition bench. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u48	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this government has proposed and this parliamentary group has approved throughout this legislature a battery of anti-corruption reforms that are absolutely new, that you have had the opportunity to support, improve and not want them, and you will know why. The truth is that I have not just understood the approach with which you claim to be constantly giving lessons on what needs to be done in the fight against corruption. You will surely remember that both in August 2013 and November 2014 President Rajoy came up to the rostrum to expose a whole set of measures, laws and actions that have to do with the fight against corruption and that is what we have been doing, to approve a reform of the Criminal Code, a reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, a new law on transparency, a new law on the status of the high office, a full commitment to funding political parties and all this is already in place, all of which makes our democracy stronger in the fight against corruption. The truth is that you have had opportunities to support these laws, to do them better, and yet we have known no proposal but critical and permanent placed on the table of scandals that it is true that you have done terrible damage to our democracy, but that all of them have been prosecuted by the courts. Faced with that, ladies and gentlemen, for example, what has happened in the government of the Andalusian Junta? Have you met any Miss Susana Díaz appearances to discuss this? Have you heard any statements by the former Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Councillors of the Andalusian Board on corruption? Have we had any chance not to use the drill to prevent the prosecution of the high officials of the Government of Andalusia? [[Mrs Rodríguez Ramos utters words that are not perceived.]] In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, very few lessons have to be learned from you. You have had the opportunity to take advantage of this legislature to promote the reforms that the Government has proposed and the People's Parliamentary Group has approved with the majority of this House and you have done nothing but settle down in criticism. As some have also said, a law that has a package of reform measures such as the Criminal Prosecution Act, which is going to substantially improve our criminal justice for a matter that has to do with the deadlines for investigation, seems to them to be inapplicable. I'm sure the Criminal Prosecution Act, like all the other laws we've passed, is going to... [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u49	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGUSTÍN CONDE BAJEN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE GOVERNMENT ADOPTED DURING THE CURRENT LEGISLATION TO STRENGTHENING OUR STATE OF LAW IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/001438]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u50	Question also addressed to the Minister of Justice of Mr Agustín Conde of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u51	Minister, Spanish society has been shaken by a number of cases of corruption that have shocked it. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yours.]] The ERE cases, the training courses, the Champion case, the ITV case, the Brugal case or also the Gürtel or Punica cases have been a scandal for a Spanish society that has seen how going through a very difficult economic situation, however, there were certain public officials who were illegally enriching themselves. These cases, Minister, are cases in which the facts being investigated and prosecuted are well before the beginning of this legislature, but it has certainly been during this legislature when they have gained more momentum and significance. It is time for the citizens to be held accountable, Minister. [[Rumors.]] Therefore, Minister, I ask you: What has this government done to prevent such cases from happening in the future? What has this Government done to make it possible for the perpetrators to be brought to justice? What has the Government done to ensure that they comply with the penalties that may be imposed on them? What have you done so that the money you illegally obtained can be reinstated to the Spaniards? And, above all, Minister, what has this government done to prevent corruption from continuing to be a problem that affects Spanish society and scandals us all in the future? [[applause.- Mr Trevín Lombán utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u52	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr Trevín, I beg you to remain silent. Mr. Trevín, listen to me, I beg your silence. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislature will go into history as one of the most reformist in many areas of public policy and one of them is justice and the fight against corruption, because these Chambers have approved the most important series of reforms in terms of transparency in the functioning of justice and, as I say, in terms of the fight against corruption. There have been policy proposals that have to do with the system of financing political parties. This Parliament, this parliamentary group and this Government have promoted a reform that makes donations to political parties more transparent, as they were not before. There was also criminal responsibility for political parties, which had not existed before. There is also a demanding and transparent system of control for political parties. This is the Parliament, this is the parliamentary group and this is the Government which has adopted a law on transparency for all public administrations and which has adopted a law on the status of the high office of the State administration which provides for a number of requirements and commitments by the person performing those functions. This is the parliamentary group and this is the Government that has adopted a reform of the Criminal Code that tightens the penalties for corruption, which expands the types, which incorporates new confiscation systems so that no one can profit from the illicit and also incorporates the concept of private corruption and corruption of the public official. This is the parliamentary group and the Government that have passed a reform of the Criminal Procedure Act that will speed up criminal justice and will make it possible to have much more advanced and appropriate investigative instruments in place at the present time. This is the Government that has endowed the judiciary with personal means to have judges, prosecutors and technological means. Therefore, throughout the entire legislature, Your Honor, the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group have taken advantage of the majority and the strength of the Government to carry out a package of reforms, of which we must be very satisfied as citizens, as democrats and as people who want the triumph of the rule of law. This has been built thanks to the Government's momentum and the support of this parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DON PABLO MARTÍN PERÉ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WILL YOU FINISH THE LEGISLATION WITHOUT THE GOVERNMENT CORRECTING THE SUBJECT OF VAT TO THE CULTURE SECTOR? [[File number 180/001432]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u55	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. It is formulated by Mr Pablo Martín Peré of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I ask you whether you are going to finish the legislature without having changed the VAT of 21% for certain cultural products. Because you agree to answer this question, anyone might think that they actually have to announce that there has been such a fall or decrease in VAT, because last July you asked publicly in an interview with a media media that that 21% VAT for those cultural products would be withdrawn. However, we all know that that has not been the case. That leaves us in a certainly curious situation, because we both think that this cultural VAT, as it is called, should have been withdrawn or diminished, but there is a huge difference, and it is that I am a Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and you are the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport of the Government of Spain. Do you think there are either in this debate that is not being congruent? In what position do you think you let me answer this question, when you think that cultural VAT is also a mistake and answer me, as you said, from the government bench knowing that it should not have been approved? Don't you think you have a certain problem of legitimacy to answer this question? [[Rumors.]] However, you also added in that interview that you would not be the one to criticize Mr Montoro for the decision. Do you know what's going on? You may not dare to tell Mr Montoro what you think, but since Mr Montoro is here - hello, Mr Montoro - and you are listening to us, I will be the one to tell him, if you like. [[Laughter]] We can tell Mr Montoro that Spanish cinema, theatre and music and, for example, the publication of digital content, school material or live performances in Spain will bear his name and surname for many years, Mr Montoro. We could tell you, and you will also agree, Minister, that, as Eduardo Chillida said, a man must maintain his level of dignity above his level of fear and, I would add, his level of servitude. In this legislature that ends today we all know what we have done, what we have worked on and who we have served, and Mr Montoro has had no dignity when he has served with fear of powers that we all know. In this last legislature with my last words as a parliamentarian, that is all I have to tell you and Mr Montoro. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u57	Thank you, Mr. Martín Peré. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martin, I am perfectly entitled to answer you and I do so with great pleasure. Look, there's no such thing as cultural VAT. You run the whole legislature talking about cultural VAT, but it doesn't exist. [[Protests.]] No, let me explain it to you. VAT legislation gives different treatments to different cultural activities. Cultural services provided by entities governed by public law or by private social cultural entities or establishments are exempt from VAT; they are exempt. Secondly, sales of books, newspapers and magazines are taxed at a minimum rate of 4%; 42% of the cultural industry, 4%. They charge a reduced rate of 10% for admission to libraries, archives and documentation centres and museums, art galleries and art galleries, where these services are not provided by public or private non-profit entities; 10%. Then they tax the type of 21% admissions to theaters, circuses, shows, etc. You therefore refer only to the latter, to a part of them. I have already said on several occasions, not to you, but in this House or in the Senate, that the People's Party DNA is lowering taxes, for a very simple reason, because we think that the money of the Spaniards where it is best is in the pockets of the Spaniards. If we have not been able to do so, as we would have liked, it is because we have to meet deficit requirements with the European Union, with Mr Moscovici, whom you know well, who looks scrupulously at where our deficit figures are. Therefore, since we have to reduce the deficit that you left us, we cannot do what we would like to do. When are we gonna do it? When we can. We will because, as I said before, our DNA is lowering taxes. Let me also tell you that in Spain at the moment culture enjoys very good health. It wasn't because of VAT that people stopped going to the movies, it wasn't because of the 60 cents, it was because of the economic crisis. When we have improved, when we are growing, when there are tax incentives for the production of films in Spain, which will indeed bear the name of Mr Montoro - Game of thrones is not turned here by chance - when in July it has risen to 10 million spectators in the cinema, when there are 25% more Spanish films, that, Mr Martín, is culture and that is what we have achieved in recent times too. This is your last intervention... [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u59	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT OBJECTIVE DATA CAN THE GOVERNMENT UNDERSTAND THAT EDUCATION IN THIS LEGISLATION HAS BEEN IMPROVED? [[File number 180/001436]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u60	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, by Mrs Sandra Moneo of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this legislature, which will come to an end in a few days, has undoubtedly been the legislature of major changes, of major reforms. When four years ago the Spaniards gave us mostly their confidence, we made a huge commitment to them. Firstly, as a priority task, to remove Spain from the enormous economic abyss in which it was, but also, second and not least, to undergo a profound transformation in the fundamental pillars of the welfare state, which ensured its survival in time in accordance with the constitutional principles of 1978. The education system, ladies and gentlemen, has undergone one of these great changes and has not been the result of opportunism or improvisation, but of the firm conviction that our country's extraordinary potential could not be undermined by a low-quality education system, which limited the training of pupils and therefore their expectations for the future, frustrated teachers and desperate families. I am not going to insist, Minister, too much on those national and international indicators which placed our country below the European average in relation to the level of knowledge of our students and, however, far above early educational abandonment - it is a reality that we all know, although there are those who try to discredit data that show the failure of an educational model that has lived in our country for more than twenty years - but I am going to do so in the need for reform. Today we can say that thanks to the efforts of all of us we have taken a first step to ensure that Spain can have one of the best education systems in the world. Would we have liked to be more accompanied? Without a doubt, Minister. Had we wanted education to be outside the political debate and become a State policy? It is one of our aspirations and for us it will not remain, although I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is disappointing to see how still today the letter of presentation of the educational model of the main opposition party goes through cutting down on the rights of families, ideologicalizing education and blowing up freedom of education. We will have to work hard to convince you, Minister, that this is not the way and that there is another path to achieving important successes. That is why I ask you with what objective data the Government can say that education in Spain has been improved today. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Moneo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout this parliamentary term, the Government has faced the main problems facing our education system, including four: very high rates of early school leaving, low performance of students, few graduates in vocational training and low employability of graduates. This improvement that is perceived in society is clearly reflected in the following data, which are objective and quantifiable, which is what you asked me to do. The early drop-out rate has risen from 26.5% in 2011 to 20.8% in the second quarter of this year. With regard to vocational training, if there were 610,860 students enrolled in the 2011-2012 course, in the 2014-2015 course we have 793,034, which means an increase of almost 30% in just three years. As regards dual vocational training, which was launched in 2012, there were 173 centres in that year and today there are 726; there were 513 companies and today there are 4,826; there were 4,292 pupils and today there are 17,129. There has also been an increase in the number of pupils enrolled in non-university education: 173,367 more pupils, and the number of public schools: 456 more. And the number of centres providing child education has increased from 21,462 to 22,520. Also in the university sphere we have obtained the amendment of the Organic Law of Universities for the internal promotion of the faculty and mobility between universities. In the budget that we approved yesterday, Your Honor, we are looking at an increase of 9.3% in education, which is enormously important, and we are also looking at a replacement rate of 100 per cent of teachers, which is also important. From this difficult legislature, in which we have had to meet the commitments we had with Brussels regarding the deficit, I think we can be satisfied in the end. This proves, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the university school year has begun with complete peace of mind. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u64	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AND COMPETITIVENESS: DOES THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT BE THE MOST APPROACH FOR THE FUTURE NEEDS OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/001428]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u65	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness. It is formulated by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you consider the government's economic policy to be the right one to guarantee the future of the Spanish people?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u67	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u70	Minister, your economic policy has only benefited 10% of the population - the highest incomes, the banks and the big fraudsters - and has harmed the remaining 90%, especially the middle classes and the workers of our country. If there is a sector hit hard by its policies, it has been that of the young people, who are poorer today, have no jobs, live with their parents or have had to go abroad. Spain is the only OECD country that has raised university enrolment and lowered scholarships, the only country that in a crisis has eliminated scholarships as a right. Over the past four years, public universities have lost more than 77,000 students. One in two young people is unemployed - this is the reality - and we are leaders of Europe in youth unemployment alongside Greece; a situation that according to the OECD is getting worse. It should be said that one young person takes six years to find a stable job and one in four contracts signed during this year has lasted less than one week. A few days ago I read the news of a young Galician who in two years has had 130 contracts. He's a computer, and he's been working for hours cleaning stables. Was this what you meant, Minister, when you said that in Spain there was no longer any fear of losing a job? With its Government, the wage of young people has fallen by 35%. The average salary of a young person under the age of thirty-five is 590 euros per month. I ask you, Minister, if I could live with 590 euros a month. Then there are the young people who work for free, because more than half of the 30-year-olds in our country work for free. It's outrageous, but true. This is the result of their policies. That is why our young people have had to go abroad to look for an opportunity that they do not find here and have already emigrated more than 400,000. Yesterday you announced that this year hundreds of thousands of jobs are going to be created and I was reminded of the 3.5 million jobs that were going to be created and announced in the campaign. No one believes it anymore. You have already announced that you are not going to be a minister and I hope that young people and their families will make your wish come true and that you and Mr Rajoy will be given the external mobility they deserve outside of La Moncloa. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u71	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. When we arrive at the government, we find ourselves in a free-falling economy; a deep recession with a fall of 2% of GDP; a cumulative destruction of more than 2.5 million jobs and an increase in unemployment of 3.5 million people; a deficit of 9%, when it was announced of 6%; an intense loss of competitiveness; a financial sector immersed in an unprecedented banking crisis that no one believed its balance sheets and in which credit to SMEs contracted to 15%, and a government - its own - which pardoned bankers. This was your legacy, Your Honor. Today the situation is completely different. We've achieved a 180-degree turn. Growth this year is going to be 3.3%, the most important of the major economies in the euro area. We will create a million jobs in two years and this year unemployment will be reduced by 650,000 people, the biggest drop in unemployment in our country's history. I hope you're happy. We have reduced the public deficit by more than 50%. We have regained the lost competitiveness since our entry into the euro. Spanish exports are growing to more than 5% and this is going to be the third consecutive year with a current account surplus that will reach 2% of GDP, which is unprecedented in Spain. The financial system is today, Your Honor, transparent, healthy, solvent and is contributing to recovery; this is seen in the flow of credit to SMEs and households, which has been growing for almost two years and is doing so at two-digit rates. In short, what you left behind was an economy on the verge of rescue and intervention; that was precisely what forced you to advance the elections five months and leave the problem, the emboldened, to the next government. Now we have an economy that grows, creates jobs and is paid to lend money until a year ago; what a difference, Mr Heredia. Your legacy was a futureless economy and today we are in a position to emerge definitively from a crisis that you aggravated with your economic policy. This is the difference between the Government of the Socialist Party and the Government of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CAYO LARA MOYA, OF THE Parliamentary GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT DO THE MANIOBRACES OF NATO CALLED 'TRIDENT JUNCTURE' IN SPAIN, TO BE DEVELOPED IN OUR COUNTRY, BETWEEN OTHERS? [[File number 180/001424]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u74	Questions to the Minister of Defence. First of all, he asks the deputy Don Cayo Lara of La Izquierda Plural.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u75	Thank you, President. Minister, how are the manoeuvres being made of NATO in favour of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u76	Thank you, Mr. Lara. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Trident Juncture, which is the exercise to which you refer, is the most important training exercise of the Alliance over the past twenty years. It reflects the Alliance's ability to respond to any present or future challenges. The magnitude of the exercise is evident, more than 30,000 military personnel, 120 aircraft, 70 ships and 8 submarines belonging to thirty-five countries, the twenty-eight allied nations plus seven partners will participate. Spain is one of the host nations of the exercise, which demonstrates the confidence of our organizational and coordination capacities, as well as our commitment to the Alliance, which will continue further with the leadership of the Alliance's very high availability force in 2016. The objective pursued and the benefit to all is the training of the participating troops while verifying the proper functioning of the Alliance's command and control capabilities; all this at a time when we must demonstrate that the Alliance is prepared to face the risks and threats that arise on a 360-degree horizon, with particular attention to those coming from the south. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Lara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u79	Minister, 30 years ago this country voted for a referendum on Spain's stay in NATO. NATO's initial entry position was not defeated by Felipe González, with his threat of who will manage the no. However, 40% of us were against staying in the Alliance and these were the conditions of the referendum: participation did not include incorporation into the military structure, the ban on the installation, storage or introduction of nuclear weapons in Spanish territory was maintained and the military presence of the United States in Spain would be progressively reduced. These conditions have been radically modified by the following Governments and have therefore been violated by the referendum. That is, the Spanish people have been swindled. Aznar incorporated us into the military structure; the ban on the installation of nuclear weapons was cancelled, and not only has it not been reduced, but the military presence of the United States in Spain has been increased by also installing the anti-missile shield at the base of Rota and thus fuelling the cold war. We were puppets of the interests of the United States in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as victims of the consequences of those actions. Remember the 11-M? Armed positions were supported by Governments creating failed States such as Libya and dramas of asylum and death like in Syria. Remember the children drowned on the beach? They put us in the strategy of fear against an enemy that was created and empowered by the United States. At the heart of everything are American geostrategic interests, oil control in the Middle East and raw materials in Africa. What a waste of purpose and a loss of national sovereignty! That is why we reject these NATO manoeuvres and let Spain launch military operations. These days they have agreed to take the land of Palomares to the United States. The military bases should also be taken to give full effect to the NATO referendum. The cold war strategy with fear as a pretext is madness, Minister. That is why I want to say in this last speech I make at the plenary session of the Congress - and I am proud to have shared with this group the worthy defense of just causes of the popular classes - that the cause of peace remains in force. NATO not, bases out! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u80	Thank you, Mr. Lara. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Lara, as you say, thirty-three years ago Spain joined NATO and twenty-six years ago as the Berlin Wall fell. These two dates give us an idea of the actuality and validity of their ideological position with regard to the Atlantic Alliance. It is curious that a person with his or her beliefs asks about particular benefits, about the advantages that Spain obtains as a member of NATO. You know perfectly well that today there are no American bases in Spain, you know perfectly well. Many are Spanish bases whose use we allow Americans, something very different from what happened before. But we, who within the Government are responsible for the security of all Spaniards, believe that NATO is a fundamental alliance for our security, for the security of our allies and for the security of values that NATO also defends, namely freedom, democracy, the rule of law, justice and the development of peoples in peace. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOSÉ LUIS ABALS MECO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF DEFENSE: DOES THE MINISTER OF DEFENSE CREATE THAT HIS ACTIVATION AFFECTS THE PRINCIPLES OF TRANSPARENCY AND GOOD GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/001430]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u83	Question also to the Minister of Defence by Mr José Luis Ábalos, Member of the Socialist Group. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you, Mr President. Does the Minister of Defence believe that his actions respond adequately to the principles of transparency and good governance?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u84	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this minister is sure that his actions at all times have been and are faithful to the law and the principles of transparency and good governance that underpin it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u86	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Abalos. Mr Ábalos Meco: Mr Minister, I would like to quote some companies in case they are familiar to you: MDBA Spain, which manufactures missiles; Grupo Segur Ibérica, Kuitver Consulting, Aritex Cading, assembly of planes and airbuses; Installation, manufacture of armaments; Constructions Navales del Norte S.L., Boguillas S.L., I-sec Ibérica, Gamo Outdoor, Ingenio 3000, Repasa, Norman Broadbent, MCH Private Equity, Inforpress. Finally, a whole series of companies linked to you in the recent past or in the present, is not clear because the opacity on the part of your ministry is manifest. But you, who was Secretary of State for Defence and Secretary of State for Security, have then been linked to both security and arms companies and between 2012 and 2014 your Government has signed thirty-two contracts with Instalaza, a company that, it must be remembered, was the one that manufactured cluster bombs and that, as a result of the ban, demanded from the Government of Spain 40 million euros from all Spaniards. The Minister of Education said that the money of the Spaniards is better in the pocket of the Spaniards, except in the case of Instalaza, which seems to be better in those who make cluster bombs. Between 2012 and 2014, the Segur Group, which you also chaired shortly before becoming a minister, almost as a minister, has obtained thirty-four contracts compared to the nineteen of the previous triennium. As a minister, this company has already won contracts to monitor headquarters in Finance, Social Security, the Ministry of Defence, Radio and Television and is also responsible for the external surveillance of prisons as a result of the reform of private security. Minister, you can't be news every time your ministry has to make a contract, that can't be the news. The opacity in management, because we do not even have clear data beyond these thick data, the budgetary deviations to which we are accustomed, that permanent conflict of interest makes you an example of absolute incompatibility. Of course, it is also part of a government that looks rather like a holding board. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u87	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u88	Look, Your Honor, I have a very clear awareness of what I have done, a very clear awareness that the ministry has been transparent. You have made here a number of statements that irregularities have apparently been committed. I recommend you, because this is a rule of law, that you proceed where you consider it appropriate, because it seems to me that using insidia, lies and slander as you have done here the only one who degrades is you and not me; you and not me. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] [[Give it up.]] I sincerely prefer you to be a Member of Parliament for the profession of basic general education teacher and then ask questions in this House about the coasts of the province of Guadalajara. [[Rumors.]] And I honestly tell you that I've worked a lot throughout my life and I've come here whenever I've been asked to come, leaving my fortune and many things behind. You are unable to do that, and I recommend that you think about the future because you are going to be a Member of this House and what you have to do is dignify it and not act as you have done today. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MADDALENA VALERIO CORDERO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS CONSIDER THAT SOME GOVERNMENT ACTUAL IS REASONFUL? [[File number 180/001431]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u90	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. She was asked by Mrs Magdalena Valerio of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.]] Mrs. Rodriguez, I beg your silence, that Mrs. Valerio is going to speak to your partner.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u91	Do you consider any action by the Government to be a matter of shame? [[Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa: Listen!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u92	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Member of the Commission: No. Government action is human action, it has successes and mistakes, but we have to say that at all times we have always ruled by thinking about citizens, thinking about what was the best way out of the crisis, never thinking about surveys. We have ruled by thinking of Spain and the Spanish, and today we all have the result that Spain is at the head of economic growth in the euro area and the developed world. I think rightly that, far from feeling ashamed, we all have to be satisfied with what this government action has been. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Valerio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u95	Mr. Montoro, I mean this interview, which has no waste, you were sown. [[shows a page of the daily El Mundo]] Here you said that there are your colleagues who are ashamed of what you have done and who are in the background ashamed of being the PP. I'm sure you're ashamed because your government began to breach the electoral agenda and promised it here by the president in the investiture debate from minute one, from the first Council of Ministers. It is clear, Minister, that lies are not even proud of themselves. Because, isn't it to be ashamed to commit not to touch education, health and pensions and then start cutting them off from day one? Or say they weren't going to raise taxes, and they've gone up more than fifty times? That is, always for the benefit of the richest and to the detriment of the middle class and the working class. How can you not be ashamed of co-sponsors and sanitary rests? How can you not be ashamed to throw thousands of students out of college for lack of scholarships? How can we not be ashamed that one in three young people under the age of 18 live below the poverty line? How can we not be ashamed, Minister, that a worker, with a job, is no longer guaranteed to stop being poor? How can we not be ashamed of a president who says that unemployment benefits discourage job search? Of course, this has reduced unemployment coverage from 80% to 50%. Minister, you are so ashamed that you always use euphemisms to name things. For example, you, who also like you very much, call a special tax declaration what is a shameful fiscal amnesty that has benefited various characters, primarily some of your party; by the way, I am convinced that these not only are not ashamed of this measure, but will be eternally grateful to you. And even more grateful will be the corrupt if you guarantee them judges to measure, as is happening now. [[Applauds]] Yes, I assure you, Mr Montoro, that in addition to your shamed comrades there are also millions of Spaniards and Spaniards who are sick and tired of their antisocial and backward policies and who are also wishing to dispense with their graces and those ridiculous riffraffs that you star with Minister Margallo, etc. There are people who wonder why you laugh so much, maybe from them?, are you trying to fool them? You have confused the speaker's rostrum with The Comedy Club. Spain needs a serious and socialist government and, as is often said... [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u96	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Spain has had a socialist government that has destroyed 3.5 million jobs and 300,000 businesses. Then, when I was a member of the opposition, I felt ashamed to be a member of this House; a House that passively witnessed the destruction of a country. That is what has happened until the People's Party Government has arrived. Your Honor, that catastrophic reading you're doing will only lead you to lose the little electoral support your lordship and your Socialist Party are having. We shall see, Mrs Valerio, what you do in the next parliamentary term. Looks like everyone's putting themselves in their place. I would like to tell you that I have been at the disposal of the plenary of this House for the entire term of office. We're at the end, I've never failed a control plenary. It is not easy, sometimes it is not comfortable to do so, but it is our duty in democracy, to give the relevant explanations always in all parliamentary procedures and have always had me at your disposal. If in any way my words have been able to offend someone I publicly apologize and forgive. I want to close my presence in the plenary of this House in this legislature - a legislature that is undoubtedly difficult for all Spaniards, but in which the Spaniards have given us a great lesson - with this image, with this graph that is that of the economic recovery of Spain in vertical rise, a rise in which wins the developed countries of the world, an increase of economic growth and of job creation. That is why we are all in this House: government, parliamentary groups... [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u98	Thank you, Minister. - Mr Rafael Larreina Valderrama, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister for Employment and Social Security: Has the Social Security Reserve Fund been reduced in a very worrying way by the management of the Government during these four years, believes that this action guarantees the recovery of a sizeable pension for all citizens in the future? [[File number 180/001421]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u99	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. He asked, first of all, Mr Rafael Larreina, Member of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the management of the government during these four years has greatly reduced the Social Security Reserve Fund, to the point that it is the only OECD State that has reduced it since 2012. Do you think that this action guarantees the recovery of decent pensions for all citizens in the future?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u101	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. The pension guarantee in Spain is called employment, and I'm going to give you three good news this morning. The first is that, thanks to Spanish society and the reforms of the Rajoy government, we have recovered one million of the more than three million jobs destroyed in the crisis. The second good news is that the growth of social security membership grows three times as much as the growth of pensions. And the third good news is that the monthly harvest grows strongly. September ended with a record collection in net collection with more than 9.2 billion euros. That is the way, employment and reforms to recover those levels of well-being and to continue paying pensions on time. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u103	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u104	Madam Minister, don't cheat on the lonely. You know - because they are also their figures - that from January to August, comparing this year with the previous year, the collection has decreased. The average contribution per worker to social security has declined significantly. The number of participants has increased by 3.22% and yet the collection only increases by 0.78%. The Government of which you are a member has reduced the Social Security Reserve Fund by 56.4 %, while the rest of the OECD countries have increased it. Opinions are free, but the data are irrefutable. It's not that pensions are in danger in the future, it's that they're already decreasing right now. The gap between wages and pensions has increased from 81.2% in 2011 to 73.9 in 2013 and continues to increase. In the case of interrupted contributory careers, which mainly affect women and those who have been unemployed, they have already been reduced to 70,5 %. And you, what have you done? Let it go, let it go. Mr Rajoy has applied the ultra-liberal motto: he has done nothing. The Toledo Pact for solutions sleeps the dream of the righteous. The urgency and diligence they have had in promoting reforms to respond to the needs of large companies, of banking, of the speculative economy by cutting down on social and labour rights, has become inaction and forgotten in responding to the needs of people on foot. Here we see widow's pensions and minimum pensions, which do not guarantee a dignified life. They only talk about pensions when they want to scare people who claim their right to decide not to opt for independence and hide that the system will break much earlier in the state. The rate of coverage of income over expenditure in the system is 79.76 % in Euskal Herria, compared to 73.40 % in the State. In Euskal Herria we are clear, we will continue to work for decent pensions. Your government will pass, but we will continue to work with the smile on your lips because we know that we will get freedom and coexistence for all the citizens of Euskal Herria; a Euskal Herria social...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u105	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, the Social Security Reserve Fund is about to pay pensions on time in our country. What the Spaniards do not understand is that with 70 billion euros the former socialist government frozen the pensions, carrying out the biggest attack on the welfare state and the Toledo Pact of the democratic history of Spain. Our commitment to pensioners is sincere and true, and also from here I want to send a message of calm and confidence to Spanish pensioners, first of all, because Spain today pays more pensions than ever to more pensioners than ever before and higher pensions than ever before. This is the first time that the average pension of the system has risen above 1,000 euros. Secondly, since the reform of the Rajoy Government, pensions will always be raised, they will never again be frozen in the future in this country. In addition, we have made it possible for pensions to rise in the difficult years of the crisis by winning the pensioners purchasing power: 2,084 million euros in 2013 and 2014, and in what goes from year to September 2015, 775 million euros have won the Spanish pensioners. Therefore, more pensions than ever and better, and also in the Basque Country, Mr Larreina, because thanks to Social Security and the single fund the solidarity of the system faces the benefit deficit that its autonomous community has. Therefore, among all, more and better pensions in Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u107	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT THAT IS FACTIBLE TO ACHIEVE IN THE NEXT YEARS THE CIFRE OF 20 MILLION OCCUPIED? [[File number 180/001437]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u108	She also asked the Minister for Employment and Social Security to be asked. It is done by Mr Rafael Merino, Member of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in 2007 a socialist government denied the crisis, in 2008 that same socialist government of Mr Zapatero continued to deny the crisis and did not make reforms. The final result of this legislature, with the support of Don Pedro Sánchez, was 3.5 million more unemployed and a loss of 2 million members of Social Security. But not only that, that socialist government of Mr Zapatero and Mr Sánchez made the biggest cuts in this country's history: it froze pensions, lowered the salaries of officials and made many local and autonomous administrations unable to develop social policies because of the ruin they had. But not only that, they brought to ruin hundreds of thousands of self-employed and small businesses because the bills were in the drawers of the administrations and President Rajoy's government had to pay 8 million bills and 42 billion euros. In addition, the economy with that socialist government was decreasing by 2%, 30 billion hidden deficits, and Spain was about to intervene. Madam Minister, the biggest and best social policy decision in this legislature, and I think it was from democracy that President Rajoy had to say that Spain was not going to be rescued. That has been the best social policy ever. You started making reforms and you made a job reform that saved hundreds of thousands of jobs; you made a social dialogue with the social partners that has allowed many reforms and you have taken measures to support SMEs and self-employed people and the recruitment of older people, long-term unemployed and young people; you have raised pensions every year, together with the Spanish Government, while the Socialists froze them. The result in this legislature, especially in the years 2014 and 2015, has been more employment and more membership of Social Security. Thanks to the reforms, since the first day our economy began to grow, we have started to create jobs, and now that we are the country of the European Union that grows the most in economy, we are the country that grows the most in employment and in membership of social security. Madam Minister, on behalf of the entire People's Parliamentary Group, which I have the honour to represent, we want to tell you: feel proud of your reforms because we are proud; feel proud to attract employment to Spain; feel proud...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u110	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Give it up.]] Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. I answer the last question of the control session of this X Legislature and I want to make three reflections. Firstly, thanks; thanks to Spanish society, to workers, to companies, to SMEs, to self-employed people, to families and to pensioners. They are the real protagonists of change in Spain. The change in Spain, honourable Member, is called growth and employment. That is the first reflection, thanks; thanks to the President of the Government and to a Government that has made reforms to accompany this growth and job creation. Secondly, trust; trust in Spain and this great country that we have; trust in a growing and job-creating country that has recovered one million of the more than 3.5 million jobs destroyed in the crisis; a country that in this legislature is going to have less unemployment and more employment than when we arrive at the government; a country that continues to lead growth and job creation in the European Union; a country that is currently experiencing a very social recovery, because very social recovery is translating all economic growth into job creation, very social recovery is growing and recovering with an indefinite job creation from the very first moment of recovery. Look at you, no exit from the crisis created stable employment from the very beginning. It did not happen in the 1990s with the Socialist Party, when it took a year and a half to create stable employment in Spain; it did not happen in the so-called green outbreaks of the Zapatero era because neither stable employment nor temporary employment was created. But with Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party since the first quarter, indefinite employment is being created. The third reflection, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have much to do, there are many Spaniards who need an opportunity that has not yet reached them, but today they have a great word that is called hope; hope that we will do so if we maintain the pace of reforms, if we keep the course, if we maintain political stability and we have in this House a strong government that has at least the People's Parliamentary Group behind us with that majority that strengthens Spain every day. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, comrades. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE, DON JOSEP SÁNCHEZ I Llibre, OF THE CATALAN GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I D'UNIÓ, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO ADOPTE TO GUARANTEE VOLKSWAGEN'S ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR THE CATALUNE PLAN IN THE NEXT YEARS? [[File number 180/001425]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u113	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism. He asked, first of all, Mr Josep Sánchez i Llibre, from the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of Industry, what measures is the government planning to ensure the announced investments of the Volkswagen Group for the Catalonia plant in the coming years, which, as you know, amount to 3.3 billion in Catalonia and 900 million in the rest of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u115	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. The honourable Member, as you know, from the first moment the news was known about the tampering with certain diesel engines software in certain models of vehicles of the Wolkswagen Group, all the work and all the effort of the Government of Spain, and particularly of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, has been aimed primarily at three objectives: one, preserving the economic activity of the group in Spain; secondly, preserving the level of investments committed, and, thirdly, preserving the level of employment that this entails, and all this in the two manufacturing centres that this group has in Spain: in Navarre, where there is a Volkswagen factory in which the Polo model is produced, and in Martorell, where the Seat model Ibiza and the León model is produced, and, in Audi, the A3 model.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u117	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. You know perfectly well that we must channel all the relevant political and industrial efforts to guarantee these 22,000 jobs that exist from the Volkswagen Group in Spain, 22,000 in all of Spain and 14,000 in Catalonia. For the Democratic Union it is important to ensure certain attitudes of his Government with regard to these future investments or of the future Government that leaves after the elections on 20 December. First of all, we believe that it is important to ensure efficient transport of goods by rail by speeding up the construction of the Mediterranean corridor from north to south, Minister, addressing small aspects but which are very relevant: first, we must resolve the international width of the road at the Portbou border crossing, specifically between Portbou and Cerbère. Secondly, Minister, the rail connection between Seat and the Renfe rail network is to be ensured by the end of 2016; it is important to ensure this connection. Thirdly, Minister, the length of Spanish freight trains must also be extended from 500 to 620 metres. There is another important aspect that we too consider relevant: that maximum efficiency is prioritized in all those tax incentives for innovation so that large companies can also be welcomed, because, as you know perfectly well, Minister, there are important limitations that make it impossible. Finally, maximum cohesion, maximum efficiency in industrial policy must be ensured so that by 2020 20% of industrial GDP can be achieved. Thank you very much, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u120	I fully agree with you, Your Honor, that it is necessary to coordinate the efforts of all the administrations involved, and from the outset we are in contact with both the Generalitat of Catalonia through its Industry Adviser and with the Foral Community of Navarre. I fully agree with you that the railway connections to which you have referred must be completed, which you know is a commitment from the Minister for Development. Thirdly, I also agree with you that we must continue with the policy of fundamentally supporting innovation plans, so that it can be ensured that these investments actually remain in Spain. From that point of view, I would like to say that I have twice reiterated in writing to the Group's leaders in Germany that the Government of Spain has a firm commitment to continue to support these lines of competitiveness, as has been done on other occasions with investments from the same group or with investments that have been carried out by other car groups when they have located additional workload in their production centres in Spain. I would like to tell you that at the same time we have reminded you that these innovation aids are the subject of competitive competition procedures, that is, there must be a call and, once the call comes out, they must be presented and will be at the interest rate that will be referred to the issues of the Spanish Treasury bond at ten years. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN SOFIA HERNANZ COSTA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT ACTIVITIES OF HER MINISTRY DOES THE MINISTER CONSIDER THAT HAVE BEEN SERVED TO IMPROVE THE SITUATION OF THE TOURIST SECTOR? [[File number 180/001433]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u122	Question to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism by Mrs Sofía Hernanz of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what actions of your ministry do you think have served to improve the situation in the tourism sector?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u124	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is clear, Your Honor, that there has been, as you say, a notable improvement in the behaviour of the tourism sector in Spain over the past few years. You recognize it, you recognize that improvement, and you ask why. Most importantly, because tourism is an activity that is going further around the world, it is growing to an average of 4% to 4.5%, but also because the government has from the beginning given tourism the priority of a genuine state policy. In June 2012, the road map was already drawn up and approved by the Council of Ministers, together with the package of measures that have been developed in the field of tourism throughout this legislature under the National Comprehensive Tourism Plan. That's what brought us back to the world tourism podium, which we weren't in 2011. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the visitor figures are good, we know that and we are obviously happy about that. I was asking if you believe that your policies have helped the sector in some way, and I answer that we do not. The tourism sector, which should have been used to generate good employment and to give hope and work to millions of families, has become by the action of its Government a machine of generating precariousness, with wages of misery, without labour rights and with brutal labour exploitation. This government has made the main engine of the Spanish economy the main engine of job insecurity, that is its legacy, Mr Soria. You've confused being Minister of Tourism with being a tourist, which makes it great, last August in a hotel in the Caribbean, in the presidential suite, with a terrace with a Jacuzzi facing the sea and a private butler. And when all this was revealed by a means of communication his only answer was to denounce them and provide a visa receipt for an amount of 70 euros a day. For 70 euros a five-star hotel suite in the Caribbean a day, whose rate costs 1,500 euros a day? It's hard to understand, and we see that it's hard to explain. By the way, did you know that the majority of workers in the sector for which you are responsible charge just over 600 euros a month? I mean, even on a two-month salary they wouldn't be able to pay one night of their presidential suite. Mr. Soria, while you enjoy Balinese beds in super-luxury hotels at low cost, the hospitality workers in this country are overexploited and do not arrive at the end of the month. And as a colophon and party ending, they're unable to start the Imserso program. This new government cobblestone is leaving the elderly without a vacation and already affecting more than 100,000 hotel workers throughout Spain. What have you done to solve it? Its obligation was to defend the tourism sector, as well as the workers. You have abandoned the hospitality workers; you have failed as a minister. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs Hernanz. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u129	Again, Your Honor, you refer to a defamation that has been carried out by a person who is convicted of a repeated crime of slander and insult to me. It is true that you have every right to quote in this House a criminal and even to sponsor him - it is normal that he feels blush - and to defend him, but I repeat that everything that has been written is false, I have denounced him before the courts and we will wait to see what the courts say. Meanwhile, you continue to echo these slanders, insults and defamations. You're very free. The important thing, the tourism sector, of which you have given here today an absolutely negative image when it is the sector that best behavior is having in the Spanish economy. From 2008 to 2011, an average of 54 million tourists came to Spain each year. Do you know how many tourists are coming to Spain this year? 68 million tourists will come, 25% more than those who came on average every year during their last term of office. I am not going to tell you that all this is a consequence of the tourism policies of this government, but let me say that at least during this legislature this has ceased to be a maritime subject, as it was during the eight years of socialist government, when tourism, the first sector of the Spanish economy, was totally relegated. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT ARE THE MOST IMPORTANT HITS AchievED BY THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM AFTER THIS LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/001439]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u131	Question to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism, by Mr Guillermo Mariscal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. In the People's Parliamentary Group we have worked with a government that has been able to respond to the challenges and challenges posed by Spanish society in November 2011 with the search for the continuous growth of the productive sectors in order to achieve a more industrial, digital and international economy; without any inertia, working hard and courageously to end, through energy reform, a tariff deficit that plagued families and worked hard against the competitiveness of Spanish companies. This lack of competitiveness of Spanish companies has led to a downside and, in turn, an increase in the electricity bill of more than 83% between 2003 and 2012. Today, this year, we will find a surplus of more than EUR 500 million, which will be beneficial for families and businesses. This reduction is not only related to the economic issue, but I also want to talk about everything related to the environment. The main difficulty that Spanish society has in this century is, without a doubt, climate change. This is corrected by reducing emissions and ensuring the continuity of renewable energy, which last year accounted for 43% of the Spanish electricity sector. In addition, we have succeeded in promoting energy efficiency and thus reducing consumption. This government has achieved, is committed to, more industry and more industry is equal to better job quality and more competitive companies. It is also committed to more digital Spain; in this interdependent and globalised world, it is essential to have a greater presence of new technologies. Finally, it is also committed, as the Minister said earlier, to better tourism, which accounts for 13% of social security members in our country. This government is committed not to the answers - which would be easy and simple - nor to the questions, but to society, trying as much as possible to respond to the main problems and difficulties that Spanish society has had during this legislature. For this reason, Minister, I ask you what are the fundamental milestones, in your opinion, that you have reached this ministry that you lead. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u134	Your Honor, in the area of responsibility of the department there were four fundamental objectives at the beginning of this legislature. First objective, that Spain was more industrial. Secondly, that Spain should be a more digital economy. Third objective, to consolidate the tourism sector - which is so annoying to some - as the first sector of the Spanish economy and the real engine of recovery. And, fourth objective, to end one of the biggest and most profound structural problems not only in the energy sector, but in the entire Spanish economy, the deficit in the electricity system, which some brought to EUR 26 billion, with a planned deficit in structural terms for 2013 of EUR 10.5 billion. Those were the four major goals. It's been four years. What's the result? For the first time, in 2014, after fourteen years, the gross value added of the industry has increased its weight in total economic activity. Therefore, more industry. Secondly, in 2014 Spain was the country of the whole European Union where there was a greater deployment of ultra-fast broadband. Digital connectivity, in this world of hyperconnectivity in which we are, is a basic and essential factor in the competitiveness of the economy. Third - that which so little likes some -, during this legislature the Spanish economy has returned to the world stage of tourism becoming the fourth to be the third country in the world in number of visitors and is the second in terms of the total expenditure that these visitors make in Spain - last year 63 billion -. But Spain is the world's first country in terms of international tourism competitiveness. This is the first time that the Spanish economy has the number one in international tourism competitiveness. According to this indicator, which is calculated every two years by the World Economic Forum, it was the number eight in 2011, the number four in 2013 and today we are the number one. And finally, we're done with one of the big structural deficits, there's surplus in the electrical system. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SILVIA OÑATE MOYA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT Satisfied with the impact that their policies have had on the equality of women at the end of this legislation And men? [[File number 180/001434]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u136	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. The first was made by Mrs Silvia Oñate of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u137	Thank you, President. We ask you, Minister, whether the Government is satisfied with the impact of its policies on equality between women and men in this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Oñate. Minister. The Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality: Thank you, Mr President. [[Alonso Aranegui]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Oñate, we are pleased with the progress that has been made, but it is clear that none of us will be satisfied until no women suffer gender-based violence, until the day when trafficking in women and children is eradicated, and until the day when women do not have to choose between family and work, have effective co-responsibility and have the same salary as men. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u140	I'll tell you, Minister. We have gone from being a reference to receiving international reproaches. United Nations suspends Spain in equality policies and falls from 12 to 29 in the global ranking of equality; four years of inequality, impoverishment and loss of rights. To their lack of real commitment, we must add this permanent use of the crisis as an alibi to impose an ideological model of high negative impact on women. In the figures we only find red numbers, 33% less, and yes, they have been ratane in the budgets but very ambitious in their effort to consolidate setbacks. Their labour reform has meant for women less employment, more unemployment, more precariousness, less wages and less protection. They have attacked conciliation and made it difficult for women to return to work after motherhood. They dismantle dependence and recommit thousands of women to take on the tasks of care alone and without help. They have left municipalities without equal powers and diluted the specificity of the Women's Institute. This means giving close and specialized attention to women's demands; serious steps back. Their ideological attack on our sexual and reproductive health was answered in the streets and they had to give death check to the then minister, but months later they have curtailed the freedom of decision of the youngest and most vulnerable, who have been unprotected and put at risk. In education they subsidize schools that segregate by sex. In health, if you want, we can talk about how copago affects older women, the sickest, the least resourced. In gender-based violence they know that you can't bargain, but they've targeted 17% less. Less momentum, more cuts, less prevention and lack of diligence on a subject that requires the urgency of a great social and political pact. Minister, backslides on equal terms are democratic backslides, backslides in social justice. You will say whatever you want in your speech, but the last word you will find on 20 December, you will find many women defending our right to equality in the polls. Thank you. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u141	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Oñate, I have to admit that it is true that we have reduced the budget we allocate to the international reporting bodies. That is true, we have reduced it, and that also means that perhaps there is less chance of placement in those international bodies, which are already very busy. [[Give it up.]] Secondly, what is a reference to you? What do you mean, Spain was a benchmark on equality? Who says so, those who were in the government that sent 1,300,000 women to unemployment in Spain? [[Give it up.]] Is that an equal reference? Nor can partial, sectarian speeches be made here, which absolutely do not recognize any progress of the most important that has taken place in this legislature with the Equal Opportunities Plan for Men and Women, as well as with regard to gender-based violence. Do you know that from 2008 to 2010 were the years in which most women were killed? We are now working hard, with a strategy that we want to be shared, these being the years in which there is the lowest level of murdered women and the highest level of protection and prevention. We are therefore working effectively to combat the scourge of gender-based violence and we want to do so since the meeting with everyone. But there are fewer unemployed women than at the beginning of the legislature -130,000 less unemployed women - and an indefinite recruitment that has increased by 12%. Conciliation policies, co-responsibility policies have increased; there is more support for professional promotion and we work with more than 100 companies to improve the presence in management positions, steering committees and boards of directors; the number of women on the Ibex boards of directors has increased and we have to share that this country will not truly have a guarantee of rights until there is effective equality between women and men, as well as a speech that respects that commitment in all political groups. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ISABEL LÓPEZ I CHAMOSA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DO YOU THINK THAT THIS GOVERNMENT HAS COMPLETED THE NEEDS OF THE MAJOR PERSONS? [[File number 180/001435]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u144	He asked the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality of Mrs Isabel López i Chamosa of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, the elders of this country are our heritage. Thanks to his work and his effort Spain is a great country. That is why I ask you: do you believe that this Government has adequately addressed the needs of the elderly?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u146	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa. They have been a clear priority of the Government since the first day. When the Government made difficult decisions to be able to reform the economy, to be able to heal the foundations of our financial situation at the worst time of the crisis, it also took as a priority not to touch the pensions, which could continue to rise every year. She explained to the Minister of Employment this morning in the House that it is already more than 2.8 billion euros that have been gaining in purchasing power. The results are there: in the significant decline in the poverty risk rate among older people in our country and in the promotion of policies that promote active ageing and a greater social presence of older people. They are certainly a priority for us. I do not want to make any criticism of the past, but they have been a priority that is demonstrated by facts and economic data. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u149	Minister, you have mistreated the elderly with each and every one of the cuts you have made. [[Give it up.]] They are ill-treated when they are told to raise their pensions by 0.25% and they are ill-treated with the pharmaceutical co-payer; that is, 70 cents of the pension and they are paid an average of 25 or 30 euros of pharmaceutical co-payers. [[Give it up.]] They are mistreated when they are reduced by 60% of the loan of the Concerted Social Services Plan. They mistreat them when they suppress the degrees of dependence. They abuse them when they make a brutal labor reform. They are ill-treated with low wages and precarious employment. And now, Minister, they are being mistreated and deprived of the Imserso's journeys. Know that there are many older women who have said that thanks to the Imserso trips they have been able to live ten days without doing the bed or any other work at home. Now you are in a business mess and today there are no Imserso trips. Minister, you continue to mistreat and lie, because you also know that we never freeze minimum pensions. [[Protests.]] Never. We never freeze the minimums. [[Protests continue.]] In addition, the minimums rose by 54 %, 27 % above the CPI. Minister, take advantage of the occasion of the last plenary session and ask forgiveness for the ill-treatment of the elderly, that we will take care of eliminating all cuts. A Government that does not care for its elders does not deserve to govern or be called a Government. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u150	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. We must see, Mrs López i Chamosa, how much I like you, how much you put yourself in your speeches. [[Laughter.- Several Members say words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u152	Mrs. Rodriguez Ramos!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u153	I sincerely hope you will be very lucky to convince the elderly that they did not freeze the pensions, but I believe that it is an impossible task that will lead your lordship to a profound melancholy. I'll give you some data. Do you know how many older people were below the poverty line in 2011? 21.2%. Do you know how many there are now? 12.9%. They've dropped by almost 10 points. [[Give it up.]] They have fallen by almost 10 points because this Government has maintained the benefits to which older persons are entitled from the public pension system and because they have been a priority for the Government and want its pensions to rise. Yesterday we approved the General Budgets of the State in this House. We approve, among other things, that 125,000 women in 2016 will see an increase in the amount of their pensions by 5% if they have had one or two children, by 10% if they have had three children and by 15% if they have had four or more children. Because there is also a wage gap in pensions between women and men. We support pensions, we are improving the conditions of older people and we are working with them to approve the framework for action of older people at hand with older people's associations. As far as Imserso's travels are concerned, don't worry, Your Honor. They will travel normally, as they have been doing every year. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE MEASURES TAKEN IN THE FIELD OF PROTECTION AND ATTENTION TO CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENCE? [[File number 180/001440]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u155	Question also addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, Ms Macarena Montesinos, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I have to say that it has been an honour for me to be the spokesperson for social services in a parliamentary group to which I am very proud to have been a part during all these years. [[Give it up.]] It has been the parliamentary group that has supported the most social Government, the Government that has in fact demonstrated its social commitment. Because, unfortunately, in Spain we suffered from a socialist government which, because of its inaction in not wanting to assume the crisis in which we were involved during its term, did not have a single policy in favour of children and adolescents. I must remind you that the Social Inclusion Plan that you launched did not have a single line in support of childhood or poverty and that you destroyed more than 3.5 million jobs and left one and a half million families unemployed. [[Protests.]] You, who supported that Government, left all its members unemployed. We lacked policies to support children and the family when the child protection system dates back to 1996; child poverty grew four more points in Spain than in the rest of Europe, and during the last parliamentary term of his Government inequalities increased and we were the country where they grew the most with respect to the rest of the OECD countries. So don't come here and give lessons. Moreover, at the time when the inclusion plan was most needed, in 2010, when we were at the most crucial time of the crisis, you left the most vulnerable. 64% of women victims of gender-based violence had minor children and you did not want to protect them and did not want them to be included in the statistics, you refused. [[Give it up.]] They owed NGOs more than 3 billion euros, which were precisely dedicated to supporting children and the family. On the other hand, the Government of the People's Party, chaired by Mariano Rajoy, has put in place a strategic plan, an inclusion plan, etc., many measures that I ask the Minister to detail and tell us because, as the question says, he would like to know how the Government appreciates the measures taken in the area of protection. [[Rumors.]] I would also like to say, Minister, that the whole People's Parliamentary Group is convinced that on 20 December the Spaniards will give their support to the most social president of the history of Spain. [[Applause.- Various Members: Torera, torera!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a pleasure, Mrs Montesinos, that there are Members with that enthusiasm, capacity for work, capacity for communication and intelligence in the People's Parliamentary Group, and there has been the whole legislature. [[Laughter]] [[Give it up.]] Do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, that there are two minutes left in the legislature and they have given them to me, and I thank you very much; moreover, for an issue that has been a priority of the Government, the progress in legislation for the protection of children and adolescents. [[Laughter]] The people behind me also collaborated on that, what is not understood is why they did not vote for that law later, but also collaborated and I think we should recognize it. I refer to the Socialist Party, which are behind me, and they also collaborated. Indeed, there have been many advances in some things that sometimes seem small or simple, such as the humanization of hospitals, for children up to the age of eighteen to have pediatric care. Sometimes they seem small, but they are transcendental, very important to many families. But, as I said, I was lucky enough to make the last speech of the legislature before the President ended the sitting and I would like to say to the People's Parliamentary Group, first of all, that they feel proud - as I am - of having participated in this X Legislature - to be Members in difficult times, and also to the rest of the Members of the House, because the foundations have been laid for the history of Spanish democracy to remain a history of economic development, social progress, opportunities and institutional stability, and that is to feel legitimate pride. To all others, my personal respect as well, my gratitude and my desire that you have the best of luck in the future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-21-CD151021.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso. With his words we finished the legislature. The meeting rose. It was 11:00 in the morning.
