ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to give you some very bad news. Just a few hours ago Don José María Benegas died. José María Benegas was the oldest Member of this Parliament. It was in this House in 1977 and it was right now and in the years that have passed. He had a long and fruitful political career. He began his career as secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party of Euskadi in 1977, was interior adviser to the Basque General Council, secretary of organization of the PSOE, president of the PSOE of Euskadi and secretary of political relations of the PSOE. He was a great politician, committed and responsible. The death of José María Benegas, Txiki Benegas, is very sad for everyone, but especially - and here are many - for those for whom we had the honour of collaborating with him during a long political career. That is why I ask you to dedicate a minute of silence to him. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence.-Extended applause from the ladies and gentlemen, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u2	Discussion of the entire State General Budgets Bill for 2016. First and foremost, for the presentation of the bill, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u3	Mr President, Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are of sympathy for the death of the active member of this House, José María Benegas. He, always campaigning in another ideology, in another position, has had the greatness of knowing how to convey to us the very meaning of democracy. That is why I have to start my speech by feeling and conveying my condolences to your family and of course also to the great family of the Socialist Party today. It's a big loss. As you know well, he was always that referent with whom you can talk, with whom you are always frank, noble, putting the general interests of the country before any partisan or ideological approach. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings to the Congress of Deputies for its debate and approval the draft law on general state budgets for 2016, the fifth draft that we are dealing with in the current legislature. The Government has maintained a very clear line in economic matters with the objective of getting out of the crisis and creating jobs. Today we present the latest budgets of this intense, of this difficult stage, with the confidence that what we have done so far has worked. It has been good for Spain, it has improved the lives of the Spaniards and, above all, it has opened the doors to a future of greater progress and well-being for all. That is why I will focus much of my intervention in the morning on analysing the policy we have pursued, because it is the one that explains the level of economic recovery that we have achieved in these three years and that would have been impossible with other economic prescriptions. The budgetary policy developed so far opens up a wide range of opportunities for the future and to take advantage of them we must respect the coherence of our approaches. Keeping us on this line in the 2016 budgets is therefore not the fruit of any obstinacy. It is simply the determination to prolong over time the benefits of a policy that has made our economy recover and grow above that of the rest of the developed countries, no longer European, and is creating thousands of jobs every day in recent months. This will allow, between 2014 and 2015, a million more people to work, with an annual growth rate of 3%, the same with which gross domestic product grows, so that, for the first time in history, all the growth of the economy, everything, in nominal terms, is aimed at creating new jobs. I do not think there is any better proof than this of the social character of this economic growth. This is the one that guarantees, through employment, equity and the fair distribution of the economic wealth that we are generating. Therefore, on December 20, 2012, President Rajoy in this House, in his investiture speech, summarized his policy as follows: I therefore propose to dedicate all the capacity of the Government and all the forces of the nation to stop the bleeding of unemployment, stimulate growth and accelerate the return of job creation. That was the project that Mariano Rajoy defended in his investiture speech. When in April 2012 we presented the first budgets we started a path that is the one that has brought us here today, the fifth budgets. Since then, since that spring of 2012, we knew what we were doing. From the beginning we were sure that we were not wrong on the way. In the face of other crises, we had a country, Spain, we had a society with different bases to respond to crises of the past. Spain was already in 2012 a country with a high level of development and whose companies had already opened up, they had embarked on a courageous path of internationalization that strengthened them in the face of the consequences of internal crises. Taking 2011 figures I will remember that the per capita income of Spain in that year was 24,200 euros in purchasing power parity and I will remember that the economy had a position of direct investment abroad, our companies had invested in the rest of the world the equivalent of 48,5 points of gross domestic product. It should be remembered this morning that only fifteen years before, in 1995, Spain's per capita income was 13,400 euros; 13,400 euros compared to 24,200 euros of average income, in a society like the Spanish one that has increased the population by about 15%. I will recall that fifteen years ago our companies' direct investment in the rest of the world amounted to 5 points of gross domestic product. Today I have said that it is above 48 points of gross domestic product, which was already in 2012 in that figure. Therefore, there were many doubts about Spain, but there were bases to surprise. There were grounds for a recovery to come that would surprise us, that would surprise us because we were accused of the recovery and because in just three years we were going to move from being the country that jeopardized the stability of the euro area to being the country that would lead economic growth and job creation in the euro area, even above states, of countries that in 2012 were much better than us in economic and financial terms, and today we are leading that economic growth and job creation. Something, then, good we have done so far; something, then, positive we have done in these three years that average between 2012 and 2015. It is not a good international situation, because that is what all countries have. Why does Spain grow twice as much as Germany, triple as France and more than triple than Italy, if we all have the same international situation? Why? Does not the price of oil benefit everyone equally or is the European Central Bank's determination not the same and does the devaluation of the euro not favour all euro area exports? Spain is at the forefront of economic growth and job creation in Europe and the developed world because we have made changes, structural reforms and because we have made the economic policies that were right for the Spaniards to start getting out of this economic crisis. Already before the price of oil went down or the euro devalued had started our economic growth and our job creation - which I will now remember and will do again and again -, which began in terms of social security membership in February 2014, also exceeding or improving all forecasts. That is why I am telling you today that the budgets I defend before you are those that need Spain and its economy and are the budgets that the Spanish need. They are because we must continue to make progress without uncertainty, because we need the enormous economic machinery that we have put in place not to stop now that it is reaching the speed appropriate to our objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, the government brings these budgets to Congress because it cannot disappoint Spanish society and that is what it would do if it left this promising path that we have achieved with so much effort. Budgets are a guarantee of economic stability. These budgets are a guarantee of rigour in the management of public resources. These budgets are a guarantee of the fight against inequality and these budgets are an example of social protection, because I want to insist - against those who only offer theories of social policy - that in practice there are no budgets more social than those who are betting on creating employment and that they protect more those who have not yet benefited from the recovery, who are those who need a viable welfare state, as is the one that ensures these budgets. They are, in short, budgets backed by the work carried out these years and are the guarantee that the Spanish economy will continue to grow and that hundreds of thousands of Spaniards will find employment in 2016. These are our budgets and it is those that compromise the political action of the People's Party for the next parliamentary term. The electoral promises that we can make to citizens when the general election campaign comes, very soon, cannot be unattainable utopias like those used to making other political formations - by the way, they have no responsibility for government -. Our promises will be conditioned by these budgets and will therefore be based on economic reality, the reality that we have been able to build these years. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is surprised at this economic recovery. The reformist spirit of the Government began in February 2012 with the labor reform made by decree-law and was supplemented by actions on the banking sector forcing it to increase its recapitalization through provisions and then also using the MEDE to strengthen the sanitation of the banking sector, and with actions that in 2012 were launched as was the Payment Plan to suppliers, at the worst time Spain lived, and the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability; all these changes in the year 2012 produced the first surprise. If one wants, the most hidden, the most difficult to understand in economic terms was the recording at the end of the year, in the last months of 2012, of a current account surplus; a current account surplus that no estimate, neither national nor international, predicted for Spain. That change is what opens the horizon for 2013 and makes it possible for markets to re-believe in a country that, by making the necessary budgetary restriction in the public sector, is able to contribute to the return of its external accounts so quickly. That is what we did in that year 2012: a structural adjustment of the public sector. We reduced the structural public deficit by 3 percentage points of gross domestic product, the structural one, since the Spanish economy fell in 2012 by even more than 2%. This effort, distributed among all the public administrations - as it corresponds to a state of autonomy such as the Spanish one - this effort of budgetary consolidation, I insist, was based on two parameters that, in view of the great public opinion, are difficult to transmit: the current account balance and the correction of the structural deficit, but which are two absolutely fundamental elements to deal with the crisis of a country, Spain, which was an external debt crisis as a result of having accumulated a position vis-à-vis the rest of the world of the highest in the developed world - and of the undeveloped, because the undeveloped, ladies and gentlemen, simply do not allow it, and outside the euro area, much less. That external debt position, which was the one that plunged us into the 2008 crisis - I will now insist on it - is the one that is beginning to be corrected as early as 2012. That is why the structural reforms of 2012 are so important, I insist, the labor reform that modernized our labor relations and that has made it possible for economic growth to go completely to employment; the sanitation of the banks, which has avoided nothing more and nothing less than the production in Spain of a corralito in 2012 as that which has lived Greece, with the terrible consequences not for its economy, but for its society, for its pensioners, which is the bank corralito, bank corralito that already announced some Nobel prizes in 2012 that would occur in Spain and that we would really be subject or forced to carry out. That is why it was so important to do this banking consolidation, as it was also very important to undertake the tax reform that we started to implement already in that year aimed at the deleveraging of the big companies of our country, something that we already approved in the spring of 2012, because through that deleveraging Spain was actually going to find a solution to its credibility problems. Also in that year, as I said before, we launched the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, a fundamental law, the vault arch that introduced budgetary discipline for all of our public administrations. We also launched the Supplier Payment Plan to finance a very high commercial debt and the energy reform we needed to close the terrible tariff deficit, being energy obviously one of the fundamental inputs of any economy and, of course, of a small and medium-sized economy like the Spanish one. In 2012 there was another event that is really the most unique, based on these reforms that I have just mentioned, and it is the non-rescue, the non-rescue of Spain. When there were so many voices within Spain, so many voices accredited in the economic field, so many voices of top-level business leaders in Spain, so many voices from the media that devoted entire editorials to asking for the rescue of Spain, when so many voices were also heard outside Spain about the need for the rescue to be made to Spain - now in the House it is not possible to find anyone, but I would swear that there were insinuations in this House that were left at the feet of the horse of the rescue of Spain not a government but a society, because from those political positions there was no alternative but to throw the towel offering this rescue - when all that happened, it was the firmness of President Rajoy who avoided the rescue of Spain. [[Applauds]] It was clearly a determination, and I want to make it quite clear this morning, at this stage in the legislature. I want to say this because I was there as a member of the Government of Spain working alongside him and I know who was the one who avoided the rescue of Spain, who had the clear criterion and was able not to attend to so much so-called siren chant; siren chants that would have struck us against the worst rocks of social welfare loss as a result of that adjustment. The Government of Spain had its own plan, a tough, demanding plan, no doubt, like the one I myself had to defend not only in the first budget of 2012, but in the royal decree-law of July 2012, which was already presented earlier by President Rajoy. Now, from the perspective of time past, we have to say that we demanded an effort from the Spaniards then, but we are returning it to them and we are being faithful and consistent with the approach we have taken. In the presentation of the budgets for 2013, when I occupied this rostrum - I am talking about October 2012 - I said that 2013 would be the last year of economic recession in Spain. Very few experts agreed with the Government in making this statement, but it did. In the second half of 2013 there was a change in our country's economic development sign and the quarterly rates of economic development began to be positive and this enabled employment creation to begin at the beginning of 2014. What are we living in Spain? Are we living, as some still claim, the reproduction of earlier economic growth models? No, ladies and gentlemen. We are experiencing an unknown pattern of growth for our country for the following reasons: It is the first time that Spain is growing this year 2015, even above 3% without inflation. This is the first time that this has happened in the history of our economy and is very positive because not having inflation means that many millions of people - pensioners and workers - automatically gain purchasing power, that our companies also gain the capacity to compete, gain competitiveness, and the cycle of the economy is always: to greater competitiveness, higher wages, ladies and gentlemen. There is no wage increase, no improvement in working conditions if there is no ability to compete successfully, to gain competitiveness in a world like ours, in a global economy. Therefore, in the first place, growth without inflation. Secondly, all growth, in nominal terms, is going to create jobs. This is the first time that this has happened in our country, because it is true that growth has gone in real terms, in volume, to new employment - in the previous phase of the People's Party's Government too - but it is now more than that. All nominal growth is going to job creation and I have described it as the best, the fairest thing that can happen to us, the most social thing we can have in economic growth. It's another one of the new pattern's arguments. Thirdly, there is compatibility with the financing capacity of our economy. Never before had the economy grown as it is already doing in 2015, on domestic demand, on investment and on family consumption. Nevertheless, it maintains a financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world, which this year will exceed 1 per cent of our gross domestic product. This had never happened before. I insist, other stages were characterized by the exit of economic devaluation and, therefore, what is happening now is what allows us to safely and reliably face that future. That is why we have to follow that path, we have to continue to maintain financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world; that is why we have to continue to defuse Spain's economic sectors, we have to defuse the public sector, and that is why we have to correct our high level of public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore facing a new pattern of economic growth. Moreover, it is the most social pattern of economic growth we have experienced in our entire economic history. Therefore, economic operators are settling on this, and they are guaranteeing and developing their activity. Here we have the latest export data; record of exports by economic sectors such as equipment goods, automotive and agri-food and chemical sectors. Moreover, the services themselves are increasingly being incorporated into this export capacity of the Spanish economy in amounts as never before recorded, because they have gained that competitiveness and because the Spanish company is installed in all these global centres of economic decision through its own investment. Therefore, a new pattern of growth that we have to preserve for our immediate future. Our concern as a country must be in external debt. External debt is without a doubt the factor that has sunk our economy and has been wasting our chances of recovery. The Group of the European People's Party has on several occasions warned the previous Socialist Government of the added difficulties that the mismanagement of external debt would bring us. The truth is that they didn't pay attention to us, it didn't do any good, but it's not because it's not in the warnings and the 'Diary of Sessions' of this House. The leader of the opposition, Mariano Rajoy - by the way, in a budget debate that Mr Zapatero, president of the government, did not do, the competent in the matter then, who was Vice-President Solbes - in October 2007 predicted that the financial crisis, which had begun in the summer of 2007, would have terrible consequences on Spain, and the then in charge of this matter in the government went up to the rostrum and replied: it will not be so, we will simply have some liquidity problems, not solvency problems. Obviously it is easier not to listen to certain approaches, but it will not be because we have not done them for good and we have warned the Spaniards about what was on us; since the end of 2007, in the general elections of 2008 and in all the opposition work we did from 2008 to 2011. As you know, the need to finance our economy reached an unsustainable 9.3% of gross domestic product in 2007. The private sector was working hard to increase its presence in international markets as well, and net liabilities in the non-financial private sector grew dramatically. I insist that net liabilities in the private sector increased from 5.5 per cent of gross domestic product in 2002 to 67 per cent of GDP in 2008, to the maximum achieved. Fortunately for the evolution of foreign debt in these years, what has happened is the opposite, those liabilities of the private sector have dropped dramatically and it has been the public debt that has suffered its presence in this area and in the purchase by international creditors. It is true that since 2008 the private sector has started a process of deleveraging, but it has done so at a very slow, very insufficient pace. Please note that from 2012 until the beginning of 2015 the private sector has been decommissioned by more than 35 billion euros, i.e. more than thirty-five points of gross domestic product, practically divided between more than 25 billion non-financial enterprises and 100 billion families. In 2008, with that level of leverage that we had, someone didn't know - I'm going to leave it at this point in this legislature - someone didn't want to know that the crisis was inescapable for Spain. It was so inescapable that, instead of going to the drawdown, the Government at that time set in motion a battery of decisions that only made the situation worse, as if it were the victim of a panic attack in the face of a situation that it could not control or delay. The government of Rodríguez Zapatero, that is, the government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Group - today some of its members continue to sit in these seats - has wasted what the Spanish economy had achieved with so much effort, has wasted the money saved in what it could, has wasted what we did not have and that we will now be late to return, and has allowed to stop paying the bills of the public administrations, incurring a delay, in an unpaid commercial debt with which we find ourselves, of more than 35 billion euros. It also ruined tax collection, passively assisting us to lose €70 billion in collection, more than half in corporation tax, accusing that loss of collection of the wrong tax policy that was resulting and of course causing the economic and social structures of the welfare state to stagger. The deficit that was created in the state accounts, which went from a surplus of over 2% in 2007 to a deficit of at least 11% of GDP in 2009, raised public debt to double it, from 35,5 % to 69,2 %, and what is worse, this resulted in an increase in unemployment figures to 3,5 million people. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it was not the policy of the People's Party Government that impoverished Spain, it was the policy that the Socialist Government practiced in those years. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that was the policy that generated poverty and inequality. [[Applauds]] That is what the statistics reveal, as well as how poverty and inequality were fired in the last parliamentary term of the socialist government. I will also recall that it was in 2010 that it was no longer possible, when all the European institutions, the International Monetary Fund and the world's most important governments already appealed to the socialist government to rectify: 2010. In 2010 there was the real social cut in Spain, the freezing of pensions and the lowering of civil servants' salaries as an average - I insist, because for others it was much higher - of 5%. That's making social cuts, that's hurting the weakest and hurting the welfare state. And they did it without blinking. We were told from this rostrum that things were already better -2010-, and so they made the biggest social cut in our history. By the way, several of the ladies who are sitting today in the seats that with their positive vote supported this social cut as deep as the one that was made in 2010. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Since then, the Spanish Government has made every effort to stabilize what we have called macroeconomic balances and to generate differential growth with our partners, which we so much needed, especially in terms of job creation. And since then, we have made tax policies, and I am the first, in my capacity as Minister of Finance and Public Administration, that I have had to apologize to the Spaniards for having to do them, but not for all, because a part of those tax policies that we started doing already in 2012 were related to the big companies in Spain. It seems to me a scandal that the big companies in Spain do not pay corporate tax - legislation allows it, no doubt, but it seems unacceptable to me - and that is why we changed that tax legislation, so that they would pay the big consolidated groups in Spain. That's what's been happening since 2012, which makes the collection go up, which comes from the big groups. We also implemented a transitional surcharge in the IRPF, which was extremely progressive: it started from the minimum rate of 0.75% for the most common income of Spanish taxpayers and became up to seven points higher for the higher income. It was a surcharge that obviously made it possible to raise more IRPF, but it did so in a much more progressive, much more equitable way. In addition, we were obliged - I say obliged - to raise VAT. It was better to do so than to be passively assisting the country in the very cause of a euro crisis. We increase VAT, but we leave the VAT super-reduced without touching, which affects, in addition to fundamental cultural elements, basic food; we also increase more moderately and leave in the reduced rate of VAT essential elements for our country, such as the rest of food, tourism, freight transport and hospitality. Once the collection has stabilized, we have been able to implement all these reform measures in the Entrepreneurs Act. We have been able to introduce and improve tax incentives for R & D+i: We have promoted the capitalisation of companies. We have also boosted the rental real estate market, which, in addition to a new regulation, has included the Socimi and this special leasing regime. All this, while we were creating the Committee of Tax Experts, with whose programme we have committed in this year 2015 the first tax cuts. When we already have a progressive economic scenario, we have lowered the personal income tax and corporate tax since 1 January 2016. I would also like to stress the importance of the fight against tax fraud. The policies we have put in place, in addition to identifying and thus providing direct revenue to the public purses for a value of correction of tax fraud greater than one point of gross domestic product, have enabled us today in the Tax Agency of information on assets declared outside Spain of 126,300 million euros, which correspond to 197,000 taxpayers; an information that we did not have in 2012, information that is precisely the basis of the procedures that have been opened from it in public cases and in well-known cases and that today would not be subject to such investigations without this kind of information. Now the recovery of tax collection is allowing, I insist, that we move forward the decrease of the IRPF, planned for the year 2016, to July 2015, so that there are another 1.5 billion euros placed in the hands of the taxpayers in this exercise, convinced that this, in addition to promoting tax equity, will stimulate the growth itself and the creation of employment in the second part of the year. These tax decisions are based on the evolution of the tax collection that your lordships know, since the data are public. Tax revenue collection up to June has grown by 5.8% annually, including 5.2% growth in income tax collection and 7% growth in VAT collection. According to the first estimates of the tax agency for the month of July, in the period January to July 2015 compared to January-July 2014, gross VAT collection from small and medium-sized enterprises has increased by 11,2 %. It is the speed that carries this income, which is also revealing the dynamism of our economy and how small and medium-sized enterprises and the autonomous are participating in that dynamism. In addition to all this, obviously in this new tax framework, the Government's intention is not to raise the tax burden, and I will now address this in particular. With regard to public spending policies, let me also clarify to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had to reduce the totals of public expenditure, but we have done so selectively. We have done so so so that the fundamental elements of social protection are not resented, we have done so by safeguarding the first social expenditure of our economy and our country, which is pensions. In this legislature pensions have maintained their purchasing power, i.e. they have risen from what was the strategy of the former socialist government to freeze them in 2010, and they have also done so by running into the deficit of the whole system, which also obviously includes unemployment insurance. In that regard, I would also like to convey a message of greater tranquillity this morning. The Government is very aware that in the next legislature it will be desirable for the Toledo Pact to move forward in the division of sources of funding, so that it is from the State from where the contributions to the public pension system are made that will ensure its recovery. Such recovery of pensions cannot be called into question. I'm not saying I'm even at risk, it's just that you can't question it. It's our first social spending. Pensioners must be assured that the State will always be behind them and that it will make the corresponding contributions to ensure their recovery, as well as other unemployment benefits, obviously by renouncing other expenditure, but giving priority to our main expenditure, which is that of social cohesion. [[Applauds]] That is why next year's budgets are precisely in line with that which is really about maintaining social spending, which is what we have done in this legislature, and we have done so through the special funding mechanisms, in addition to what has been the social protection of the social security and unemployment system itself. We have done so by guaranteeing liquidity to the autonomous communities so that they can use these resources in health, education, social protection; we have done so through payments to suppliers of the mechanisms of the Autonomous Liquidity Fund and, of course, we are also favouring it in the financing at zero cost of the liquidity of the territorial public sector of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, 70% of territorial government expenditure is social expenditure. That is why, when from the state what we are doing is promoting this funding with liquidity mechanisms - nothing less than 183 billion euros we have put in motion in this legislature - it means that more than 130 billion euros have gone to guarantee the social benefits that our autonomous communities and our local corporations are doing. That is the responsibility of a government, in addition to obviously exercising the coordination of budgetary policies and seeking and guaranteeing the objectives of correcting the public deficit, which I must also tell the House this morning that they have been achieved jointly. Spain has drastically reduced the public deficit since 2011, at 9%, and is going to bring it into the new budget, in which I am presenting it to the House, to below 3%: from 9% to 3%. That is a fundamental task because it will make Spain in the next budget, in the implementation of this budget, exit the excessive deficit correction procedures implemented by the European Union. It is essential because it is what we are right to do and we will achieve together that the level of public debt on gross domestic product is reduced and in this way we will be making the economic crisis easier, easier, easier, easier, more and more. It is also essential to ensure the viability of all public benefits, but especially those relating to the welfare state. Therefore, these are basically the 2016 budgets, budgets that compromise the social character because they facilitate economic growth and job creation, and because they enable the resources to really make the foundations of our welfare state more and more solid and cannot be questioned. They are budgets that, also to the extent that they are being implemented, will facilitate, will favor the evolution itself of the decrease of taxes since the policy that the Government is already doing in this year 2015 is to return collection to the taxpayers, convinced that we are refueling the virtuous circle of the Spanish economy, where growth, employment, competitiveness, are also compatible with an increase of economic capacity that coincides with the correction of the public deficit. I would therefore like to say that the cooperation of the public administrations, of all the public administrations, has been very positive throughout this parliamentary term and I think it is fair to recognise that. It has not been easy for anyone to rule in these circumstances, but they too must be involved in the success of economic recovery, as they have contributed a great deal to it. In terms of social policy, I recall that there are 13 million people in Spain who receive their income from social benefits, including 9,200,000 pensioners. This means that 30% of the Spanish population receives their basic income from public administrations. This is safeguarded in the State General Budgets for 2016, because they schedule a significant increase in territorial financing for next year, an increase of more than 8% in advances on behalf of the autonomous communities and almost 4% for local corporations, as well as remaining alive, of course, the special liquidity mechanisms. This is how a 2016 budget is maintained, which is characterised by an advance in public investment, and which is growing by almost 5% in the programme, closely linked to the major European investment projects, projects that Spain needs to strengthen the construction of its internal market and to boost its competitiveness. On the other hand, they are budgets that give back to officials much of the effort they have made these years. Spain has an excellent public function, and now, when we have the economic recovery under way, it is time for the officials to recover what they have given up these years so that the whole country could get started. That is why these budgets schedule the total payback for 2012, which - as I have already explained - will be returned in full next year, taking into account that already in 2015 a quarter has been returned. The Government's intention is that the first councils of ministers to be held after this budget debate will agree on the legal formula for paying another quarter of that extra pay that was displaced in time in 2012. It is also time to increase, albeit with moderation, the salaries of officials, after five years of freezing, as well as the time to clarify that there are many staff in public services that cannot continue to diminish without diminishing the capacity for action of the major functions of the State, including obviously national defence, State security, citizen security, external representation and all the major elements that make up the great government of the State. I'm closing up. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that the policy that we have made these years is there and also its results; we accept and defend them. The question is, what would others have done? What would your lordships have done? I ask the Members present in this House who have tabled amendments to the whole of next year's budgets. What are you trying to do? That Spain has more public deficit? That we fail to meet the path committed to the European Union in reducing the deficit of our public administrations? Do they want taxes to go up? Who? Do they want us to actually reduce spending or increase more spending? If social security is already guaranteed! What are your lordship's plans? Indeed, we have been able to do this policy because we have had political stability in Spain. Political stability is the majority represented by the People's Parliamentary Group. We are living in days when it is worth reflecting on the same concept of political stability, because there are also absolute majorities in other parliaments in Europe and they have no political stability. There are absolute majorities in other parliaments in Europe, and when a matter such as the one brought last week by the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness to this House concerning the new financing procedure for Greece is raised, these parliaments are quarte and not all Members vote the same. There has been political stability in this House. There has been a parliamentary group that has really been involved in the toughest and most difficult decisions that have been taken in this legislature, and I would like to refer briefly to that group, the People's Group, to which I am a party. [[Applauds]] I am also a deputy of the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, a deputy of the province of Seville, and a member of the People's Parliamentary Group. That group comes from those differences in Spain. This group knows what these differences are; it knows what it is to come from a territory whose aspirations do not always coincide with those that live in another territory; it knows what is the uniqueness of this country, from north to south and from east to west - it knows perfectly well - and has never anticipated a personal decision to the general interest of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That is political stability, really democratic stability. We now see that other European parliaments have an absolute majority. For what? To reconvene elections? By the way, in Spain there are also genuine experts in successive calls for elections: those who do not govern. They are the ones who are there, they are the first in the elections, but they have no will to govern in difficulty, because in ease they do it anyone. We must govern in the circumstances in which we have ruled and do so by taking on costs, political costs, costs such as those that this parliamentary group has managed to take on without blinking, without failing a vote. [[Rumors]] That is what must be valued in terms of political stability. This minister would not say what he said this morning - that we are growing at the head of the developed countries, at the head of our world, the European world, in job creation - if not for that political stability. I want to put an end to the words of the President of the Government in his investiture speech. It is interesting to read these texts with perspective. We are talking about what the President of the Government said in December 2011. He said: Those who think that Spain will not be able to make the reforms it needs to succeed in the euro Europe are totally mistaken, because they do not understand what the Spaniards in times of difficulty have been able to do: unite our forces, overcome the difficulties, act realistically and look to the future, in short, do well what had to be done at every moment. Whenever the challenges have been sufficiently stimulating, we have been able to overcome them; whenever the goals have been sufficiently clear, we have been able to achieve them. That is why we all know what we have to do in this legislature - December 2011 - no one doubts this either within or outside Spain; what we have to do to be a stable economy, with strong and sustained growth, with the capacity to create jobs and guarantee its welfare state. That is what we have devoted ourselves to in this Parliament, Mr President, to that. [[Applauds]] Last year I talked about the Spaniards, I talked about the effort and the entrepreneurial capacity that Spain has, I talked about that we are a great country, a country that does not fall on its knees in the face of difficulties; we are that great country that our recent history has shown us to be. I belong to a generation that has been the protagonist of the fundamental changes in the history of Spain and I have contributed modestly to some of those changes. We are that generation that in childhood had a per capita income of $2,000; today we have 25,000 or 26,000 dollars. We have made a model political transition, a political transition based on a Constitution that is the guarantee of our freedoms, of our respect, of tolerance between us and of our democracy. That is what the Spaniards have done, which we have had the privilege of having actively participated in making our country a country of prosperity, a country that is increasingly close to facing a future in which we find equal opportunities for the Spaniards, let us once and for all take our economy and recover not only the levels of well-being, but the levels of employment that we were able to deserve in their day. That is why the next parliamentary term - and these budgets are marked by it - will be that of the 20 million occupied; that is why the next parliamentary term will need policies that continue with these reforms, budgetary policies that know how to open the way for security and trust within and outside Spain. These budgets are the key to a new future, ladies and gentlemen, a future of work, economic progress and social welfare, the future that Spain and the Spanish deserve. I invite you to contribute your grain of sand by supporting the bill here today and in any case promoting a constructive debate on it. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u4	Thank you, Minister of Finance. The meeting was suspended. It was one and fifteen minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u5	The meeting was resumed. We move on to the debate on the full amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2016. Twelve amendments have been tabled to the full refund of this bill. Firstly, for the defence of its amendment to the whole, by the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u6	Thank you, President. My first words will be to honor the memory of my companion, Txiki Benegas, so dear and so respected by all and by all. He, who was born in exile, has been an exemplary Spaniard, a Basque socialist who contributed decisively to building Spain's democracy and freedoms. He was a brave man, who first fought against the dictatorship and against ETA after and won. It was generous, as all those who from our ranks or outside them knew well had the opportunity to work with him. His books, articles and interventions in this rostrum bear witness to his vast culture and his keen intelligence. All of us, friends and adversaries, will miss your wise counsel. José María Benegas knew how to honor the gift of life and we already miss him. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what national emergency calls us for this debate? What is the reason that led the Government of Spain to hold for the first time in democratic history an extraordinary plenary session on 25 August on budgets? Has the government finally decided to approve advanced democracies and announce the resignation of the Minister of the Interior for his infamous meeting with Rodrigo Rato? Or perhaps the emergency is in which they have left the care system to dependents, with almost half a million Spaniards on the waiting list? Does the Government summon us, ladies and gentlemen, to explain why it has exhausted in just half a year the public debt figure planned for 2015? Or do you call us, perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Rajoy has finally decided to appear in this Congress to explain the plot of corruption that affects his party? [[Applauds.-Protests]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, none of that. It seems that the extraordinary thing is that the law obliges to call general elections at the end of the year. Although, in fact, if we think about it, it is not extraordinary either, because it is not the first time in the history of democracy, Mr Rajoy, that elections are called at the end of the year, without any president of the Government, until his arrival, having committed the defachability, the democratic outrage of trying to impose on the next General Courts, on the next Government, before having heard and knowing what the decision of the vote of the Spaniards is, a general budget. [[Applauds.-Protests]] To tell you the truth, Mr Rajoy, removing democratic rights and freedoms is what you have been doing throughout your parliamentary term. They say, ladies and gentlemen, that they want to ensure that 2016 has an approved budget in time; that is, they want to make the next government not commit the irresponsibility that your government committed, when in the midst of a crisis of international confidence in Spain you, Mr Rajoy, for electoral reasons, postponed the approval of the general budgets until you knew what the choice of Andalusians in the elections was. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if that is your concern, if you honestly thought, Mr Rajoy, that it was negative for Spain to start January 2016 without a new budget, the decent, the consistent, the democratic thing was to advance the elections so that the next government, freely, would draw up its budgets. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, what a responsible democratic ruler would have done, and that is what you have not done, Mr Rajoy. What you have done has been to hold on until the last minute, until the last second to power, because, ladies and gentlemen, the really extraordinary thing that is going to happen in the next elections is that the current tenant of La Moncloa is going to bring his party from the absolute majority to the opposition. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, there is no national emergency to hold the debate on 25 August. You have again defrauded the confidence of Spaniards and Spaniards by putting at the service of your party and your personal interests the best interests of Spain and the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the government - we have seen it this morning - does not bring general state budgets, what it brings is an electoral programme. They have again used state institutions to give their first election rally, including once again a lack of respect for the Congress of Deputies. You've only missed one thing, Mr. Rajoy; you've missed the gallantry of coming up to this rostrum and defending this election program firsthand. [[Applauds.-Protests]] That's the gallantry you've missed, Mr. Rajoy. But, on second thought and after having seen the President of the Government flee through the Senate garage not to answer the uncomfortable questions of journalists, we already know what political responsibility the President of the Government assumes. [[Rumors]] They say they are concerned that the Government can leave the next elections and that their policies will have an impact on the economic situation in our country. This is fake. Firstly, because the government that comes out of those elections - I am committed to it - will change, within the law and with the legitimacy of the votes, these budgets as soon as it takes possession and as soon as, Mr Rajoy, you know what the hidden deficit you have left behind is. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what the ephemeral parliamentary roll of the People's Parliamentary Group now approves will not be tied and well bound, but will be freely unleashed by the democratic government that happens to it, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, because I am one of those who believe, like many Spaniards, that the best thing that can happen to this economy, that recovery is fair, that is to say for the benefit of the working middle class, is that you, Mr Rajoy, stop being President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, you are the danger to the Spanish economy, because what has done your labor reform has been to increase the benefits of a few companies as wages fall, while stable employment is destroyed, while underemployment is created and there are poor workers, and not to change that puts the recovery at risk. [[Rumors]] You are the danger to the Spanish economy, because your model of lowering labour costs, your disregard for science and training undermines the future bet on productivity, innovation, added value, competitiveness and doing things right and not cheaper, and not changing that, ladies and gentlemen, puts the recovery at risk. You are the danger to the Spanish economy because of your lack of vision in the face of global challenges such as climate change, which have been understood by world leaders, and not to change that puts the recovery at risk, Mr Rajoy. You are the danger to the Spanish economy, because what has made your cuts to the welfare state and your massive tax hikes while taxing people like Rat, Barcens or Grenades has been causing a disruption and social inequality unknown throughout our democratic period, and not changing that poses a risk to recovery. Mr Rajoy, you are the danger to the economy, because you have led Spain to a serious institutional degradation, with a president of the government harassed by corruption, with your party corroded by the corruption of Gürtel, of Bárcenas, of Punica, without anyone from your government or from your party assuming that political responsibility first, and not changing that, not changing you as president of the government, Mr Rajoy, is what puts the economic recovery in our country at risk. [[Applauds]] This election program that we are presented today as being a General State Budgets is the living proof of exhaustion as Mr Rajoy's ruler. There is no country's future bet that calls for the modernization of Spain neither a change of productive model nor recovery of the social cohesion lost by the cuts perpetrated by its Government. Their budgets leave out the majority of citizens: the unemployed whose coverage you cut to intolerable levels, the poor workers, the long-term unemployed, the families who do not receive income, the millions of Spaniards at risk of poverty, the researchers, the cultural workers, the innovative entrepreneurs, the civil servants, the self-employed and the social economy, the pensioners and the single-parent families who are mostly young. To all those who want to have someone at the head of the government willing to face, not to hide, to get wet in defense of Spain's interest and its progress just you leave them out of these budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, what the International Monetary Fund does in its recent report on Spain is to question the growth forecasts of its Government. He points out that without a change of course, which will only come by the hand of a change of government and a change of priorities in economic policy, our economy will begin to lower its growth rates over the coming years and the unemployment rate will continue to be unbearable for a very long time. The government, of course, ladies and gentlemen - we have shared it in some other speeches in this House - manages a favourable external situation, regardless of the renewal of the productive model, the creation of more and better jobs, the creation of more and better businesses, the improvement of productivity, or making recovery sustainable and vigorous in itself, without external dependencies. In any case, seeing the clouds that haunt Asia and the impact that the Greek crisis has had on our financial system, it is ridiculous, Mr Rajoy, to hear you proclaim that Spain is armored after the crises as a result of its reforms. Their attachment to the wrong policies of the past, their lack of new ideas for the future, their attack on labour and social rights are the main threat to our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, as a memory exercise has been done on these last four years by the speaker this morning, I would like to do the same. Let's do some memory, ladies and gentlemen. In June 2012, six months after Mr. Rajoy entered La Moncloa, with the risk premium located in the triple of what you received when you entered the government, Spain... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u7	I beg your silence, please. I went on, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u8	...Spain was rescued by the troika. Mr Rajoy, in 2010 we avoided the rescue of Spain with its opposition and in 2012 Spain was rescued with its approval. [[Rumors]] That's the truth of history. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Look, a loan of EUR 40 billion in exchange for signing a memorandum by the troika similar to that which the troika signed with other countries rescued like Greece, like Portugal or like Ireland; although limited, that is, to the financial sector, which was where we really had the problem as a result of its disastrous management of the crisis in Bankia and Rodrigo Rato, which, among other issues, should be noted, Mr Rajoy, in this debate that you appointed as President of Caja Madrid. Since then, its priority has been to save the banks, which absorbed virtually all public resources in the midst of a widespread paralysis of the rest of the productive economy, which fell into a deep recession due to lack of credit. [[Rumors.-A lady deputy: What a barbarity!]] Recession that you deepened as a result of your neo-conservative policy through the budgets with the cuts you made in the welfare state and with a labor reform that produced the largest number of layoffs in history. [[Rumors]] After your labour reform, ladies and gentlemen, which weakened precisely the bargaining capacity of the workers, we saw the biggest drop in the salaries of the workers, rather than the top managers of the big corporations. The fall in disposable income of the families that their irresponsible politics produced has severely fractured our society, bringing us to unknown levels of social inequality. Today there are 13 million Spaniards at risk of poverty, Mr Rajoy, with more than 2.5 million children in poverty. You are responsible for Spain being the second economy in the European Union today in terms of social inequality. The attack on social and labour rights that has characterized his legislature, from ideological budgets that citizens identify wisely in the CIS on the far right, the only thing he has achieved, the only thing that has allowed us to improve our competitiveness through labour costs and, with it, our exports. You, Mr Rajoy - or, rather, the policy imposed on you by the troika and, consequently, by black men - depressed domestic demand and made Spain a country with a positive external balance without the structure of our productive apparatus being prepared to face that challenge, being a sustainable bet. That is why the result of its economic policy was the recession of the Spanish economy; the recession from which we started to emerge, not as a result of its success in economic policy, Mr Rajoy, but because of the new policy of the European Central Bank, which we have always defended by the socialists, because of the settlement and the progress in the banking union, which allowed the external financing tensions to ease and, consequently, to come to fruition, little by little, credit to businesses and families. [[A Member: What a barbarity!]] Then it is consumption that takes over and yes, then yes, the improvement of the Spanish economy begins. But start, Mr Rajoy, pushed by spending and not by saving, as you said; pushed by internal demand and not by external demand, which is what you said was going to happen. What is happening today in the Spanish economy is just the opposite of what you said was going to happen, and that is the best proof of the diagnostic and treatment error you made. Look, Mr Rajoy, with your attacks on the welfare state, your massive tax increases and your labor reform, you have been the man of the troika in Spain. And, once that mandate is fulfilled with the troika, the drama is that you no longer know what to do with the Spanish economy. [[Applause.- Rumours.-A lady Member: What a barbarity!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, in these budgets your forecast of public revenue can only be accepted from party discipline, but from your party, because no one else shares it. Let's do some memory. In April 2012, you, the Government of Spain, sent a stability programme to Brussels saying that in 2015 we were going to have a public deficit of 1.1% of GDP - I do not want to be mistaken, Mr Rajoy - and a public debt of 80.8% of GDP. That's what you said in 2012. Well, in May 2015 the public deficit remains the same as at the May 2014 levels and the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority - which you know well, Mr Rajoy, which is an institution that forced us to create the troika during the rescue - has already publicly said that the Government of Spain is not going to meet the public deficit of 2015. No news on the front, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the same thing that happened in 2012, 2013 and 2014; and our public debt, far from being 80.8% of GDP, is close to 100 percent of GDP, far exceeds, Mr Rajoy, the billion euros. That is to say, you have spent more on this legislature than you have made for a volume of EUR 300 billion. That's the inheritance you're going to leave us, Mr. Rajoy. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 the tax collection was 6.3 billion euros lower than that assumed by the Government of Spain. The cause was that you said then, back in 2013, that thanks to your cuts and thanks to your labor reform would also lower the unemployment rate, but the reality was that 200,000 additional jobs were destroyed to the 800,000 that you destroyed in 2012. And they were no longer destroyed because thousands of young people were forced to emigrate in search of the opportunities that you denied in this country and consequently disappeared from the unemployment figures. That breakdown of employment, of wages, what he did was to sink the incomes of families, which caused the collapse of consumption, and for both reasons is why right now we have lower tax bases in our taxes. But the most worrying thing, ladies and gentlemen, is what has happened since 2011 in Social Security. The Social Security you inherited, Mr. Rajoy, had balanced accounts. [[Rumors.-Several Members: How? What a barbarity!]] Yeah, yeah, balanced accounts. Listen because the government has not informed them well; listen. Balanced accounts which were the ones you inherited and which allowed, among other issues, that from 2004 to 2011 the increase of minimum pensions of up to 50% and the increase of widowhood pensions with dependent children of up to 90% from 2004 to 2011. [[Applauds]] In addition, a pension fund, i.e. a Social Security Reserve Fund, with an amount of €67 billion, was left behind. Do you know what your cut-off model has achieved, Mr. Rajoy, and your economic model of 'I make things cheaper'? That Social Security collected €5 billion less than expected in 2012 and €8 billion less than expected in 2013, and that you caused a widespread impoverishment of the 8.4 million pensioners, who have seen how the prices of pharmaceutical co-payers, such as the rise in food, light and heating prices, which are essential for the basket of the purchase of pensioners, have risen more than the pension they collected in 2011. Mr Rajoy, with you as President of the Government pensioners live worse, that is the reality. [[Applauds]] According to the Labour Force Survey and eliminated the seasonal effect, there are 287,000 fewer Spaniards who have lost their jobs since 2011, and most of them are young, Mr Rajoy. Those who have found it have done so with much lower wages and today there are 700,000 more unemployed who have lost all benefits. Those are the causes that explain why the building of our pensions starts to crack and threatens with ruin, and for that reason what you have done has been nothing more than to put your hand in the pension shed since you were President of the Government. That and not another is the inheritance you received. [[Applauds]] In your budget for 2015 - let's make some memory because it is also important - you said in this House that social security contributions income would grow by 7% this year; 7% said you, Mr Rajoy. Between January and June of this year they have grown less than 1%. We are faced with the economic recovery with less intensity of collection of the Social Security of democracy and the blame is their labor reform and their model of growth, more typical of an emerging country than of the fourth European economy. But your mistakes in forecasting income in Social Security are not new, they have been systematically committed throughout this legislature, Mr Rajoy, since 2012, as in the rest of the tax revenue forecasts. And, instead of correcting, in a new act of irresponsibility, they have decided to re-project an impossible growth of Social Security revenues during 2016. Mr Rajoy, moreover you have said publicly, not once but quite often, that nothing needs to be changed in economic policy, but if we do not change anything, in 2016 Social Security will raise 10 billion euros less than expected, the deficit will be close to 15 billion euros and in a short time will be finished the niche of the pensions that with so much effort contributed the Spaniards to build. Even your own Secretary of State for Social Security, Mr Rajoy, already publicly acknowledges that with the current situation and with your current social security contribution model widow's pensions will not be able to be financed via Social Security. The precarious situation of social security has nothing to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the architecture of the system or, of course, with the system of distribution, but with the poor management of this government, with its labour reform, which creates poor workers, with low wages and low contributions, and with its pension reform which has impoverished pensioners. Your labor reform and pension reform, Mr Rajoy, only create poor workers today and poor pensioners tomorrow. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the current picture of Social Security, I ask you, Mr Rajoy: for this you broke the Toledo Pact that existed, the consensus that existed about public pensions in this House? For this? Mr Rajoy, with your policy you have led Social Security into a dead end. Only a change of policy and government will be able to regain the solvency of Social Security and restore trust to pensioners. Look, if I am elected president of the government after the elections, I solemnly commit myself before this House to rebuilding the Toledo Pact that you broke to guarantee the public funding of each and every pension and to approve a new status of workers that guarantees through income the support of the pension system. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I said earlier, the public deficit in May was the same as last year's, and that is why, Mr Rajoy, what you do is artificially inflate income. Mr Rajoy, as in the 2011 campaign, you hide from the Spaniards that the day after the elections, in the event that you win them, what you will do is apply new massive cuts to the welfare state, and if not to ask the new autonomous governments that you are forcing to meet impossible public deficit targets and that you will demand the dismantling of the welfare state. [[Rumors]] But I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Rajoy: we're not going to let you. His party never believed in the welfare state and always put clubs on the wheels of the socialists when we built it. Universalizing health, education, securing pensions, creating non-contributory pensions, creating a funding system for dependency has always had the opposition of the People's Party, as the opposition now has the proposal that we socialists have made of a minimum living income for those 740,000 households that do not have any kind of benefit. [[Applauds]] Therefore, taking advantage of the crisis, you again attack the welfare state, to make a society more unjust, more unprotected, more unequal. But the most cruel decision of the Spanish Government is to lower the IRPF to the highest income at the cost of cutting unemployment benefits. If in the year 2011 - listen well - the state entered in the current accounts of the unemployed of this country 30 billion euros, today it enters 10 billion euros less. Same number of unemployed but more unprotected and with less coverage. The unemployed, ladies and gentlemen, who are unfortunately going to go into severe poverty and lose their benefit, those who by their cruel decision, Mr Rajoy, are going to live from the food banks, are going to finance that rebate that you are going to make in the IRPF to the highest incomes. That is what you propose, the most retrograde recipes, the most conservative right-wing recipes that will generate more inequality and more poverty. Indignant, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] In active employment policy, you have cut back on what we have in Parliament by EUR 2.150 million. Its employment policy is summarized as follows: to unprotect the unemployed and not to train the employed. On the expenditure side, I have heard you say, Mr Rajoy, and also members of your Government that they are saving a lot of money in paying interest. Another lie. I'll share a figure with you. In 2011, the State paid €22 billion in public debt interest. By the year 2016, you have budgeted €33.5 billion. That almost EUR 11.5 billion more we pay in debt interest is what you've cut off, you know what? In education and public health. [[Applauds]] That is the problem, Mr Rajoy, and yet you continue to spend more than you enter and public debt grows without any control. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain must strengthen its ties of internal and external solidarity. Just when the younger they emigrate in search of opportunities that they do not find in Spain, you cut off the departures for emigration by 41% throughout this legislature. Your Government has not led any action for the return of our young people, no plan to articulate in each and every consulate an aid, an advice to the growing colony of Spaniards in London, Paris, Berlin or Latin America, you have done nothing. Well, yes, they have done a few things: cut the right to a health card to ninety days and not reform the petitioned vote that we Socialists are demanding. [[Applauds]] You have also done quite a bit of damage to official development assistance. They have cut development cooperation funds by 70% since 2011, and this cutback policy is perfectly in line, ladies and gentlemen, with the insolidary policy they are maintaining in the European Union regarding the asylum of millions of immigrants who are becoming as a result of the humanitarian crises and wars in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, the Socialists argue that economic policy in our country must be changed urgently, because the Spanish deserve the truth and no more statistical lies. Without a good diagnosis of what is happening in the Spanish economy - and this is not included here in the State General Budgets, Mr Rajoy - it is impossible to solve the serious problem of unemployment and public debt that we suffer. We need a budget that respects middle-class Spaniards, who are billed and have been massacred by their taxes, cuts in the welfare state and their policies, which have impoverished the working middle class since 2011. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, your policy has broken Spain, and I am not referring to the threat of territorial rupture enclosed in the independence challenge, which hides its inability as a ruler who clings to doing nothing because nothing knows what to do. [[Applauds]] The spectacle that you have given during these last days and even these last minutes, Mr Rajoy, with your ratification of your party's position on constitutional reform is the living proof of not having a country project, it is the living proof of your inability and of your null will to update our standards of coexistence to Spain of the 21st century; this is the reality, Mr Rajoy. But I am referring more to the social breakdown, to the break caused by its policy, because never, like today in Spain, has been greater the distance between rich and poor, never, as today, has been greater the distance between those who live the recovery and those who still live in the crisis, between the companies installed in a global and competitive economy and the companies that still cling to government privileges, between those Spaniards who contemplate the future as hope and those others who see it as a threat. You, Mr Rajoy, have broken Spain with your policies. The inheritance that will leave us is a Spain fractured socially and confronted territorially. That is why it is so urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to Mr Rajoy's mandate at the head of the government, and that is why you resist calling the elections, because you know that you are going to lose them. [[Applauds]] The time has come to unite Spain and the Spanish around a programme of the future, Mr Rajoy, of the future, of country ambition, of political, social and economic regeneration; the time has come to renew and regenerate Spain, and we must do so to create the opportunities that citizens of all ages and conditions today are denied, to repair the damage caused by the crisis, yes, but above all its harmful policies and its management at the head of the government, Mr Rajoy. Improving the productivity of our country is the basis of the proposal to renew our productive and social fabric that the Socialists will bring and that we will present to the next general elections. For that I offer, ladies and gentlemen, seven axes of renewal of Spain around which I will call for the broadest consensus of the political-parliamentary forces, if I have the honour of being elected President of the Government after the next general elections. [[Rumors]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we will start by renewing our educational framework by leaving Lomce behind, committing an investment in two legislatures that will reach 7% of gross domestic product so that there will be more scholarships, less university fees, more students of vocational training; that there will be decent working conditions for teachers, more support for rural schools and the network of public libraries. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, we will lower cultural VAT from 21% to 5%, because we believe in the culture and the power of the cultural industry, as we will also increase investment in science and innovation to the 2007 levels. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I propose a renewal of our fiscal and tax framework, including once and for all the ban on the shameful fiscal amnesties that your Government has approved. Our main tax problem is the low taxation of some income, for fraud or for legal certainty. A democratic State needs its citizens to contribute to the financing of public goods according to their income capacity. Making this constitutional principle effective will be the total fiscal revolution that the socialists will make, leaving behind a government that has been more attentive - like yours, Mr Rajoy - to tax gifts and to political control of the Tax Agency. We will restore independence to the professionals of the Tax Agency and strengthen their resources in the fight against tax fraud. Thirdly, it is essential to renew the employment agreement to help reduce not only our unbearable unemployment rates, but also the levels of insecurity so high that many millions of workers in our country suffer as a result of their labour reform. This will require the renewal of the agreement between workers and employers, the adoption of a new status of workers that adapts labour relations to a global world, where we must make compatible both the creation and the consolidation of enterprises, the re-industrialisation and the internationalization of our economy, with stable labour contracts that facilitate continuing training, the reconciliation of labour and wages appropriate to the efforts and training of workers. Fourthly, we need to renew the pact on social cohesion policies, which are so deteriorated, not so much by the crisis as by its policies, Mr Rajoy; we need to recover the levels of health care prior to its entry into government; we need to recover health care in terms of both quantity and quality, and we need to recover the universality of the public health system. By the way, it does not lie to the Spaniards, it repeals the Royal Decree 16/2012, of health exclusion, and with this it will have regained the principle of universality also for undocumented immigrants. [[Applauds]] Don't lie to the Spaniards anymore. Fifthly, we need to renew the gender pact with a large state pact in the fight against gender-based violence that you have refused to lead, with a law of equal pay, with the rational use of working hours. I pledge to you that, if I am elected President of the Government, we will return the gender equality agenda to the centre of the political agenda. This will be the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Sixthly, we need to renew the intergenerational pact by recovering the Toledo Pact and adopting a new status for workers. We need to work actively from Spain, and also lead by example, in the fight against climate change. Betting on renewable energy, energy efficiency, energy savings, sustainable development and a circular economy of renewal and not waste will be the hallmarks of our competitive model. Finally, we need to renew the trust between citizens and their institutions by respecting Parliament, which you do not do, Mr Rajoy; by opening the doors to citizen participation, which you do not do, Mr Rajoy; by improving the quality of our institutions, which you do not do, Mr Rajoy; by resolutely fighting corruption, which you do not do, Mr Rajoy. You'll know why. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] That is why I pledge to strengthen the independence of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority by attaching it to the Public Policy Evaluation Agency so that we really have an agency that evaluates all budgetary policies and the degree of efficiency of public spending. Secondly, my priority will be to improve the competitiveness of the Spanish economy, articulating proposals and also making recommendations to the other institutions and administrations to achieve greater and better competitiveness of the Spanish economy. [[Rumors]] Spain has the capacity to be a prosperous, entrepreneurial, innovative, competitive, cohesive and supportive country, but it deserves a government that governs for all, not for 10% of the population, the most powerful, to which you direct your tax gifts and policies, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Four years later, the Spaniards know that with you, Mr Rajoy, Spain has a problem of country design, lack of a project for the future and political leadership, and that is not arranged by bringing a patch of budgets that you will approve alone and for your parliamentary roll, but that you will shortly serve Spain and the Spaniards. That is why we reject them, and that is why I announce that we will change them, if the Spanish give me their majority confidence after the general elections. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. [[Protests.-Several Members: No!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, second budget debate; second budget debate by Mr Sánchez in ten months. The truth is, I wasn't surprised. I had my doubts in the first that I would arrive at the second, that I say frankly and with the same nobility and loyalty; I had my doubts, but there it is, leading the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] And why are you leading the Socialist Party in this second budget debate? Well, it's because... [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I'll explain it to you, ladies and gentlemen. Then Mr Sánchez will also be able to explain himself, which he has so generously used this afternoon, by the way. It's there for a reason, because, after losing the May 24 elections, you've done what you've done has been to clothe yourself with support, covenants with the radical left, with Podemos,... [[Several Members: Uh!]] [[Several Members: Ah!-Laughter]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u11	I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u12	...to try to appear here in the rostrum as a leader with possibilities of alternation. I found the end of your approach interesting, Mr Sánchez. He said: if I win the elections, I will change that draft budgets for 2016. Are you going to allow it or are you going to be induced to change it by your potential partners? Those very same potential partners that you've given municipal power to, which so far are exercising pending general elections but that we all know what you're really thinking. Or it will be those partners who in Catalonia, without blush, mark independence as a flag and those who are supporting their party in Catalonia to occupy those mayors. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Or perhaps we are talking about other partners in the Government of Navarre, who in the vote of investiture counted on the abstention of their party in Navarre to form Government. That's Mr. Gonzá... Sánchez... [[Several Members: Ole!-Applause]] That is Mr Sánchez - I'm sorry, my last names are accumulating - and his political representation in the Socialist Party and that's what he's doing with the Socialist Party. I have no doubt - I will say so this afternoon -.. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u13	I pray silently that the minister will be heard as Mr Sánchez has been heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u14	You, if you came to the government, would change things, I have no doubt, Mr Sánchez. Do you know what was going to change? I will sum it up: economic recovery. [[Rumors]] That's what's going to change. You in the government, with the announcements you have just made, what shows is that it is the threat to economic recovery, Mr Sánchez. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] You are that threat because you have made a speech in which your supposed alternative concentrates it on seven vagueties at the end of the speech. Or is it not a vagueness to say at this stage of the legislature and after what has happened in Spain that it will improve competitiveness? How do you do that, Mr. Sanchez? With a corporate tax, does that influence the improvement of competitiveness or does it not? How do you do that? [[Rumors]] Explain it. [[Rumors]] That has nothing to do with labour reform, competitiveness has nothing to do with it. It is not the improvement of competitiveness that brings better wages to Spain or any country. This is not what brings it, it is not the improvement of competitiveness that generates new employment opportunities in Spain or any country. It's not that. What you're going to do is cancel everything, all you can do. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Everything]] You're right, if your predecessor already did, Mr. Zapatero. Do you remember Mr. Zapatero? I remind you, of course, with all interest and with all intent. Mr. Zapatero already did, and he came to rule. As I explained this morning, the difference after seven years of government - by the way, the government in which Mr Seville was in the first part - is that he owed even the eyebrows to Spain. That's what he did, that's Spain's diagnosis: to owe it to the eyebrows. Is that understood well or not understood well? [[Rumors]] I made it clear this morning. Where there was a current account deficit of 3.5%, Mr Zapatero and his Government converted it into almost 10% of our gross domestic product. [[Rumors]] Where there was an external debt of the order of 35 million euros they turned it in net terms in 92 billion euros, to pulse. Isn't that the diagnosis of what happens to Spain, Mr. Sánchez? Consult him, see if they really explain to him the issue of external debt and how that debt is generated. By the way, Mr. Sevilla was in that government, and he's going to advise you for the two economic afternoons, Mr. Doctor in Economics. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Go up and tell this rostrum that you don't know what's wrong with Spain. If anything happens to Spain, I explained it to him this morning. It happens to him that he has an external debt problem that his previous rulers not only bore in the sense of forgetting but that they pushed it, because they came to understand that belonging to the euro was like having a shield with which the debt was infinite, with which the balance of the balance of payments gave equal; and it is not so. We're in the euro, you know why? Troikas up, troikas down - you have the language of your government partners, of these increasingly municipal partners, increasingly autonomous - do you know why we are in the euro? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] To meet the criteria of economic stability. Do you know what underpins and makes possible the integration of Europe? The internal market and economic stability programmes. That is what makes Europe possible and that is what we Europeans demand because we want to be Europeans and members of that unity and integration. That is why Spain, when it meets these stability criteria, is doing much better; as happened in the 1990s, when with a socialist government, in 1995 Spain's unemployment rate was 25%, the public deficit was 7%, the public debt was 70%, inflation was 7% and we did not meet any of the Maastricht criteria. A People's Party government had to come in and change things in the 1990s. [[Rumors and Protests]] This change is the one that promoted the longest and most intense job-creating economic growth in the history of Spain. Of the 12.5 million people we worked in 1995, the same number of people we worked in 1975, in 2007 we moved to work in Spain more than 20 million people, with almost 5 million people who have come to live with us, to integrate, because here there was work, prosperity and future. You come up here this afternoon to say that a People's Party government is not supportive. That it was the governments of the Socialist Party that really promoted that economic change and that integration of population in our country; by the way, some of the Catalan independenceists are very affronted, hindered - one of their candidates on that independenceist list said - by arriving Spanish from other parts of Spain or people working in Catalonia or in any territory of Spain from other parts of the world. [[Rumors and Protests]] Mr Sánchez, the Toledo Pact was liquidated by Mr Zapatero's government. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] You want to tell me... [[Rumors]] As far as I know or as far as I can remember, you were a congressman, weren't you? [[Rumors]] No, no, Do you know what's wrong with you? Besides that he's younger, taller and has a better voice, you know what happens to you? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] One thing happens to you: it goes again. [[Mrs López i Chamosa utters words that are not perceived]] He's going back for life. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u15	Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa, I call you to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u16	And that, when you go back for life, right?, why are you going to get involved and get complicated? When one takes the lead of one of Spain's great political formations, the Socialist Party, goes one again for life. You were sitting in those seats when the Pensions Act, currently in force, was passed, extending the lengthening of the retirement age. That was brought here, to this House, with the votes against the People's Party. You really have already made this uprising - at least call it partial, if you will - of the Toledo Pact. They did something much more serious and I remembered this morning. You have been the only Spanish democracy government that has frozen pensions in Spain. [[Applauds]] If that is not to skip the Toledo Pact, Mr Sánchez, for I do not know what you call the Toledo Pact. Your honor has said, that with great emphasis, with a lot of packaging, eh?, that you will regain the spirit of the Toledo Pact. Okay. You, sitting in that seat, voted in favour of freezing pensions or not? Or wasn't it you? [[Applause.-Rumors.-Several Members: Ah!]] No, it wasn't the same. Now he's a leader, before he was a deputy. [[Laughter]] I have already spoken about Members this morning, I have already spoken about Members quite a lot; but, that is the big difference, I do not recognise myself. And you don't recognize yourself in your political family either? Can you really talk about what the public management of EREs in Andalusia has been like? Or don't you talk about what public management of EREs is like in Andalusia when you talk about active employment policies? Is that the way to make active employment policies, to distort unemployment insurance benefits? Is that the example, the title of the management of your political family where unemployment is greatest? In Andalusia? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] [[The Rumors Continue]] [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] I want to tell you, if I may... I want to tell you, Your Honor, that you're new to the square. You are new, but, although so new, you have already had to make really serious decisions that are affecting the present and future of Spain and conditioning its economy. The parking lot of your economic program cannot be greater, because of the emptiness that you have released this afternoon from the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Because they do not arrive, they do not come to good intentions; they are generalities. I am obliged to ask you: in this project of yours, in this emphasis that you have really put on abolishing the budget that the government brings to the House for 2016, does it include the increase in the public deficit? You're gonna do that? Is it going to increase yes or no? Will it stick to the path of budgetary stability that is agreed with the European Commission, within the Eurogroup, the Ecofin and the European Council? Is it going to stick or is it not going to stick? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] Comprometasis, Comprometasis. What things do I say? Compromise. What things I ask too! Well, I'm not going to give up on my commitment either. Do you think it is excessive that the general government as a whole will reach a deficit of 2.8% next year and in this way we will exit the correction procedure established by the European Union for the correction of the excessive deficit? Do you think that's okay? Do you think it is right that next year the public administrations will register the first nominal surplus that will cause the public debt on gross domestic product to begin to fall? Is that okay with you or isn't it okay with you? Because you have come up here and said: the new autonomous rulers - those you have promoted with those political pacts that for you will be natural, of course, I do not doubt; they will be for you, but you will not deny me that they create much fear those political pacts that you yourself have sponsored - have received a far better inheritance than some of them left. [[Rumors and Protests]] What was Castilla-La Mancha's public deficit in 2011? Do you need to remember? Or do you need to remember what Extremadura's public deficit was? Or the Balearics? [[A Member of the Commission: Count it]] [[A lady MP: That, remember it!- Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u17	Silence! Mrs. Rodriguez, I beg you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u18	What was the volume of commercial debt, Mr. Sánchez? Do you know what commercial debt is? [[Rumors]] Recognised and unpaid debt. Do you know what volume of commercial debt your government left - because the responsibility for controlling commercial debt was with your previous government - do you know how much it was? EUR 35 billion. Do you know what it means not to pay those bills? Do you think hospitals can be open without paying the bill from the providers of those hospitals? Or can schools and colleges be? Can disabled care centres be? Can senior residences be? [[Congressman: Come on, man!]] [[Ms Rumí Ibáñez spoke words that were not perceived]] Some of you, who have been high-ranking by those governments, are excited this afternoon, and rightly so. [[Rumors]] Oh, if only I had known! I've been in a government that has left all the bills unpaid! The invoices have to be paid because behind them is the credibility and functioning of the public service, its viability and of course its quality. How is it possible that in Spain the expenses of hospitals, the providers of hospitals - I mean the provision of pharmacy in hospitals - will exceed 550 days without paying? [[Rumors]] That's what we've done with the public debt. I was explaining this to Mr Sánchez and all of you this morning, but I am not in a position to reiterate this argument. Why has public debt increased with the current government? [[A lady MP: Zapatero]] For three reasons: first, for the public deficit. Mr Zapatero left EUR 30 billion in a public deficit, which, according to him, was not going to happen, but it happened in 2011; that is, that part of it is allocated to Mr Zapatero, yes, fully: EUR 30 billion. That's to finance the government deficit and then to pay that commercial debt. Or would you, if you had been president of the government, not have paid that commercial debt, Mr. Sánchez? What would have happened? How many companies would have closed down? How many labs would have broken down? How many big multinationals would have left Spain? How many jobs would have gone missing? You wouldn't have paid for it? And that's not paying for public services? [[Rumors]] No, it's not paying for public services. I have come to the conclusion that your lack of recognition of economic recovery is not because you do not believe in it, but because you understand that it does not suit you politically I find it very serious. [[Applauds]] Is it true or not that Spain is growing more than any of its European partners, than the large countries of the euro area? Is it true or not? Is it true or not, as the International Monetary Fund says, that Spain is growing at the head of the developed world, breaking the IMF's forecast, which did not expect such growth? Is it true or not that Spain is creating more jobs in Europe than any of the major European countries? Is that not true either? [[A Member of Parliament: No!]] [[Rumors]] There are more than 1,100,000 members of Social Security since February 2014 until now. Isn't that true? 1,100,000, 165,000 more affiliates. Isn't that true? You, as a Spanish politician, don't you celebrate that's true? What do you say from this rostrum? [[Rumors]] That behind it is nothing but precariousness and poverty. What's behind it is work. I have already explained this morning that what has plunged Spain into that relative poverty has been the crisis. Spain appears in all comparative statistics - also in the OECD - with an increase in inequality in the previous legislature. [[Laughter]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Read the statistics and the figures and you'll see how bluntly it is. That has one cause: unemployment, the destruction of jobs. If 3.5 million jobs were lost in a single legislature, how is it not going to impoverish an entire country? How can an entire country not fall into a collective depression thinking that there is no future, that there is no future for its young people if 3.5 million jobs are destroyed? Now what's going on, Mr. Sanchez? Is economic growth and job creation recovering, yes or no? And you celebrate it, yes or no? [[Several Members: No!]] [[Several Members: No!]] He doesn't celebrate, say it frankly, as he did here this afternoon. You do not come to talk about economic recovery, how that economic recovery is strengthened, how that commitment from Spain to Europe is strengthened and how credibility and trust is gained with national and international investors. You have not come to talk about it here, you have come to talk about other things that your lordship understands are those that politically suit you. You're not here to talk about budgets. [[A Member of Parliament: Neither do you]] Do you agree that 1% of the remuneration in the 2016 budgets is raised to officials? Do you agree that the days of free will should be recovered? Do you agree that the 2012 pay will be recovered since what officials lost in 2010, the 5% drop, is behind their backs? [[Rumors]] That's behind you, that's what you voted for. But of course, we do not know whether Mr Sánchez is the one who has risen to the rostrum today as leader of the Socialist Party or it is Mr Sánchez who voted in 2010 for the freezing of pensions and the lowering of civil servants' salaries. [[Applauds]] We do not know whether Mr Sánchez who has come to the rostrum today is the same as the one who voted for the reform of the Constitution of Article 135. [[Rumors]] You voted for that too, but then you said: I regret that I did. In life when one has to repent of so many things that he has done in political terms, certainly, Mr Sánchez, he is on a relatively fast path. [[Rumors]] Do you remember that expression of Groucho Marx - they awarded it, sure you said it -: These are my principles, and if they do not like I bring others? [[Risas-Rumors]] That is exactly the concept of politics that you bring here to the rostrum. That is why, Mr Sánchez, with speeches like those of this afternoon, your lordship, what you do is become the political risk of Spain. [[Applauds]] You become the threat of the economic recovery of Spain and the Spanish, because your lack of commitment is clear and evident. You understand politics as subterfuges, as small battles to give and not with the intention of winning a war; that way of understanding politics, in addition to making it smaller, makes it incompatible with the recovery of the trust and credibility of citizens in politics. Mr Sánchez, it is time to strengthen economic recovery. The Socialist Group has not supported just one of the State's general budgets that has brought the current government to this House. [[Rumors]] The Socialist Group has not supported one of the important laws of economic structural reform that the Government has brought to this House, or one. Why did you do that? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Now, when there's recovery, how do you explain it? How do you explain it when there is an economic recovery? He explains it with the lightness that characterizes him. There is recovery because the European Central Bank saved us from the rescue; there is recovery because Spain asked for the rescue - it has come to say - in 2012. [[A Member of Parliament: Whoa, whoa!]] On what date in 2012 did the Spanish Government request the help of the MEDE to finance the sanitation of banks? Haven't you made it clear? [[Laughter]] They haven't cleared it up. It was June 2012. I hadn't talked to Draghi. The European Central Bank had not proposed such a conditional support mechanism, no. It was before. Why do you say that a rescue was requested when what was done was to open a procedure at the request of the highest European authorities, whereby, with the consolidation of the banks, today they are operating and lending loans, more and more easily and at better interest rates for all, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises? Thanks to this policy and to heal them, by recapitalizing them, to this policy of demanding greater provisions in the application of their benefits, today in Spain there is no risk of the corralite that they have lived in other countries, such as Greece. Here in Spain that is impossible to happen, but in 2012, with the inheritance received, it could be given, as a Nobel prize came to anticipate. That has not happened in our country, we have avoided it with those policies, which are otherwise European. That is what the MEDE is for, which is certainly financing under excellent conditions of repayment of deadlines and interest rates. That is what the MEDE is for, that is what we are Europe; now we are also Europe to meet at home the conditions of economic stability that it means to be European. You, Mr Sánchez, would have to commit to that European being. You should be like other social democrats, for example in Germany, who do not hesitate when they are clearly betting on the rules of economic stability. But you are closer to what the left of Syriza represents than to the left of the German Social Democracy. [[Applauds]] That is what he is representing and what his latest political movements have shown. I do not know what kind of opportunity your lordship understands in terms of a proposal for a debate on the general budgets of the State. The debate on the General Budgets of the State makes sense to see how the great public services of our country are properly financed. This funding comes from these General State Budgets. That is what these General State Budgets are about, and tax policies, which, from the principles of equity, finance properly, with fiscal incentives, those public services of citizens. You are tired of talking about the tax amnesty, but the facts are showing you that there has been no tax amnesty in Spain. [[Rumors]] None. There has been a tax regularization governed by a law passed in this Parliament, and not as the former socialist government, Mr Sánchez, has certainly explained to you, when the French authorities sent him the first Falciani list, in a legal procedure, no doubt, but in a rather extraordinary regularization. That is to make approaches outside the transparency of the laws that are brought to this House. There has been no tax amnesty here, there has been an extraordinary tax declaration that, together with the Anti-Fraud Act 7/2012, which required the declaration of property and rights abroad, has led the Tax Agency to have today information worth EUR 126 billion, information that three years ago seemed impossible to have. That is a guarantee that in Spain all citizens who are obliged to pay taxes do so, and do so in time and form, and that is a guarantee of the functioning of our equitable system. As is also the case with the proposal for tax reform, which is already being developed by the Government - it is already law the reduction of the income tax on natural persons - which leaves the minimum rate of the scale at 19%, which means 5 points less than the 24 which had the previous scale of the Socialist Government in the IRPF, and leaves the maximum rate of 45% on the same scale as the previous Socialist Government. You'd get that number thing, because nothing would hurt you. Let me. Don't put numbers behind my back, let alone the knowledge, it won't be that I intoxicate myself with knowledge. These numbers, these realities go against his speech, the speech that the People's Party Government does what it does is political for 10% of the population. That's the speech that makes it possible for 1,165,000 people to have found a job since February 2104 until now. That is the speech of the People's Party, which makes it possible for us to see a future, that of the 20 million occupied, because Spain was already able to do so by complying with the codes of good practice, with the codes of economic stability, with the codes of gaining competitiveness with effective policies, which are leading us to sustain and consolidate economic recovery and the consequent creation of employment. I invite your honor to come up to this rostrum and congratulate the Spaniards, as the Government has done, on this economic recovery. They are the protagonists. To challenge them that it is they who are bringing Spain forward is a scarring position that does not deserve to be made by any political group in this House. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u20	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, you who have been the president who has passed the most royal decree-laws during the legislature and throughout the history of democracy, you who have been the president who has rejected the most appearances from the opposition, should have had the decency to go up to this rostrum and defend the general budgets of the State yourself. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, stop playing with euphemisms: it was a tax amnesty. Pay heed to your deputy president of the government who said tax amnesty. Yeah, tax amnesty. By the way, if so much information came out of that tax amnesty, Mr Rajoy, why don't you share it with the Spanish group? Why don't you publish the list of fraudsters who have taken over the tax amnesty? [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr Rajoy, is there any plot of corruption in the People's Party that has not taken up the tax amnesty? Barcens, Rat, Garnets... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Be brave, Mr. Rajoy, and publish the list of tax amnestyes. Stop euphemisms, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you clearly that you, with your policies, Mr Rajoy, have put economic recovery at risk and have broken Spain. They have broken Spain into the key elements of social cohesion in this country, first and foremost in the education system. You, Mr Rajoy, have broken equality of opportunity, and this deterioration has led, among other things, to 45,000 less teachers today in our country's classrooms than four years ago. You have cut the scholarships in our country by 270 million euros, and that has meant that today the average scholarship in our country has a lower amount of 600 euros. Mr Rajoy, with your budgets you are going to recover the levels of investment in public education for 2016 that we had in 2007, that is, a decade lost in public education. I tell you one thing, Mr Rajoy, we are going to regain the consensus broken by you with that law, the Lomce, which you imposed, and we are going to do the following as soon as we get to the government: we are going to put a minister or minister who knows about education at the front and does not boast of not knowing what educational policy is, as the Minister of Education has done throughout this month of August in interviews. What we are going to do too, Mr Rajoy, is to recover the previous levels of investment, those of 2007, which you left behind. By the way, Mr Rajoy, explain to the Minister of Finance that betting on education, science, innovation is the way to improve competitiveness in our country, that competitiveness can never come from the reduction of labour costs, as you have done, because it is the impoverishment of the middle and working class. Mr Rajoy, you have also not talked about the system of attention to dependence, and that seems reasonable given the numbers, the figures. You have cut in four years 500 million euros in attention to dependency. That has meant that today there are half a million Spaniards on the waiting list waiting for those rights recognized by law, and that has made it, ladies and gentlemen, that one out of every three deceased dependents has been so without prior care of dependence. That is the result, Mr Rajoy, of your policy. And before that, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard on many occasions the members of the Government say that it is the political stability guaranteed by the People's Party Government. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what stability is given to families and the working middle class in this country when we have half of the workers who, as a result of their labour reform, charge EUR 950 a month; what stability is that one of the three contracts that have been signed in this country has an average duration of 60 days or what stability it is, ladies and gentlemen, that you give to women when they charge 30% less than their male colleagues for developing the same type of responsibilities in their offices. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not stability; that is breaking Spain, as you have also broken the pact between generations. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the social security situation is alarming, it is alarming as a result of the breakdown of the Toledo Pact that you perpetrated with this reform of the pension system and it is alarming for your labour reform. I will give you a figure, in the first six months of the year 2015 the increase in the number of contributors to Social Security has been of around 681,000 people, while the increase in the collection has amounted to only 639 million euros, when before the labor reform that increase in the number of contributors would have amounted to 1.2 billion euros. That is what you are currently ruining Social Security, Mr Rajoy, and that is why you are doing what you are doing is using the Reserve Fund. Of the EUR 60.8 billion you inherited from the Reserve Fund, i.e. from the pension fund, you have already evicted EUR 37.701 million from pensioners. So of course yes, we are going to do what we are going to do is to regain and rebuild the broken consensus on the Toledo Pact and to adopt a Workers' Statute that will put an end to the poor work that you are creating. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you - I understand - never combine recovery with democratic regeneration but you have to. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask in this House what is going on in this government so that a Minister of the Interior who approves a law that cuts the rights and freedoms of the social majority in this country will meet secretly with a person accused of money laundering, such as Rodrigo Rato, and remains a minister. [[Protests]] [[Prolonged applause]] What happens in Spain and in the Government of Spain so that a finance minister with one hand increases taxes to the middle and working class, lying as you lied, Mr Rajoy, to the Spaniards with your 2011 election program and, at the same time, approving a tax amnesty to which Mr Rato is welcome? Although, on second thought, ladies and gentlemen, on the day Mr Rajoy sent that text to Barcenas, saying to him: Luis, be strong, lost all moral authority to demand the resignation or dismissal of any of his members of the government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] You have no moral authority, Mr. Rajoy. None. Look, tell your Finance Minister that we are going to meet the deficit targets we set, with the European Union and, by the way, with the targets set in the general state budgets. Because the problem, Mr Rajoy, is that on this occasion we can say that everything is false, except something. On this occasion, Mr Rajoy, because you have failed during these four years to meet the deficit targets set in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. [[Protests]] Yes, Mr. Rajoy, yes; it is. You have also failed to meet the public debt targets. Instead of the 80% you set and committed to the European Union in 2012, today we have a public debt of 100 percent. And you, Mr Rajoy, are going to be the first president of the history of democracy where in every year of the legislature Social Security is going to incur a public deficit. [[Applauds]] And I tell you more, I tell you more, Mr Rajoy: if you, really, as I have heard you say, are calm with the social security situation, you are irresponsible. You're an irresponsible man. [[A Member: Yes sir!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. These budgets that put economic recovery at risk, which you are going to adopt alone and with your parliamentary roll, are budgets that are already part of the past. Like you, Mr. Rajoy. Thank you so much. [[Protests and rumors.- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez: nothing, that there is no economic recovery. What are we going to do with it any more? His lordship goes up to the rostrum again with the same mandangas, I mean, don't you want one? I repeat. I repeat because it is the script that is known. [[Rumors and Protests]] His lordship makes it so political, it's a style of doing politics, that something is left. It seems that something remains: in Spain there has been a fiscal amnesty and Mr Bárcenas has been welcomed. The Tax Agency has said no, that the procedure is not valid, but you repeat, repeat machaconically because life is like that, right? Because, what is this that truth will make me free? What's gonna make me free the truth! You mean the truth! You're a real politician, of the fajaos these, as I told you before, who doesn't care to look to the north than to the south, to the east than to the west. I have already told you clearly, and every intervention you make is the same. As for Mr Granados' case, when that account appeared in Switzerland, what you call amnesty had already passed, the amnesty deadline had already been fulfilled. But what are you talking about, but what are you talking about if you don't know what you're talking about? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The case is to go to the noise, to the 'bayuyo'! [[Applauds]] That's what he does. [[Protests]] You repeat authentic falsehoods that are certainly, therefore, to see if they come in. And they come in, huh? They're coming in. I see them repeated over there. And they enter the circuits of this kind of politicians who have no real, truthful and capable arguments. Regeneration. Democratic regeneration of Spain. Regeneration of the country. Do you think that if we didn't have this economic recovery Spain could have any kind of regeneration? Do you think that if we had not been able to begin to overcome the economic crisis we would be able to talk about other things in Spain? What would Spain be if we were in 2011? What would it be if we had those 6 million unemployed and we hadn't improved that situation? Or aren't they recording our historical export record companies? [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] It had never been so exported to our country in terms of gross domestic product. Does that mean that competitiveness policies have been made or that competitiveness policies have not been made in Spain, Mr Sánchez? I mean, today we have very cutting-edge economic sectors in Spain, but why don't you recognise it? Why don't you go up to the rostrum and talk like a real leader who's an opposition alternative has to talk? You, you go up to the rostrum to talk about mandangas! [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived.-Applause]] Of Mandangas, of political stability that he does not define because today he has not told us about the reform of the Constitution, that nobody knows what it is, and he came to propose the suppression of the Ministry of Defense. [[Laughter]] Those are his proposals. You're from that kind of politician who says, "Where's the microphone?" [[Laughter]] And he asks to repeat the same thing. And they ask him, what are you going to tell him? But it doesn't matter. He says, "Give me the microphone I'll explain it to you!" [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That's what you are. You are one of those kind of politicians who certainly appear in our country that instead of having content and coming to concrete debates on concrete proposals, as these State budgets that have concrete debates mean, concrete proposals. However, you don't talk about them, either of them because you don't care. I insist: you don't care. We have already said with regard to social security that pensioners have to be completely calm in Spain, because the guarantee of pensions is the state. You don't agree with that? [[Mr. Sánchez Pérez-Castejón makes negative gestures.- Rumors.-He disagrees.]] [[Laughter]] So, your proposal is to raise social security contributions so that fewer people are hired? Are you concerned that this government is improving social security contributions? Or isn't that one of the causes of social security income weakening? Do you think that's wrong? Is it wrong for us to have installed in Spain for a long time the rate of 50 euros? Is it wrong for you that the first 500 euros paid on wages do not tax on contributions? Does that sound wrong to you? [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: There, there.]] Of course, it weakens income, but that is what the State is for: to make up for that income and to tell pensioners that what guarantees their pension is the financing of the State. But it is also guaranteed by taxes, because we are already doing so with the division of sources of financing to Social Security. There are more than EUR 13 billion in these budgets, as there were in the years 2015 and 2014, which will finance Spain's lowest pensions, which are minimum supplements and non-contributory pensions. That's already tax-funded in our country, Mr. Sánchez, did you know that? Did you know that this was so and that, therefore, it is the state that is financing with taxes that? Is it not desirable that in the future, the Toledo Pact should address the financing of social security in order not to penalise employment in Spain? Isn't this important to talk about here in this rostrum this afternoon? [[Several Members of the People's Party: No]] No, he's come to something else; I don't know what he's come to; the truth is, I don't know exactly. [[Laughter]] He said: we will meet the deficit committed. Has the Government of Spain failed to comply? What do you mean, he didn't do it? This is fantastic! That we didn't meet last year at the close of 2014? Didn't we meet in 2013 and 2012? I have already explained this morning that we have come to reduce the structural deficit by 3 points of GDP, making the greatest adjustment that has ever been made in the history of Spain's public finances or in that of any developed country. There is only one country that has made an adjustment of that entity, of that size, which is Greece, Greece intervened. So that's what you're talking about, that you're going to meet the deficit? How are you going to do it, like you did in 2010? When a socialist government, first, did not recognize the crisis, then it said that social policies were not touched, and then what was touched was the pensions and salaries of the civil servants. That is the consistent action of the Socialist Party when it is in government. You, I do not know what kind of script, perhaps by your predecessors in office, who are going to be successive secretaries general of the Socialist Party that are going to happen, does not come to make proposals, because as has been shown in today's debate you do not have one. [[Rumors]] You are the empty set, Your Honor, in political expression. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] However, in political alliances it is a risk, it is a risk what you have done after May 24 for Spain and that, as you have become a risk, will be read by the Spanish by the end of the year, because there is concern about it. There's concern about political alliances because they're not all worth it. Political alliances cannot be made with those who want to break Spain. Why do you have to ally yourself with political parties that are going to destroy your country? [[Applauds]] You're the leader of a party that's an alternative to government, but it doesn't matter. Why do you say that these political formations are progressive? What is progressive? Getting out of the euro? Is that progressive? That is what we are living through, the sufferings of euro-member countries, as is the case with Greece, which, by failing to meet its conditions, is experiencing the situation that it is experiencing. Is that what you want for a part of Spain? So explain and express and leave empty words and superfluous expressions. If there is economic recovery - I have already explained it - it is because of the will, the effort and the emptiness of the Spaniards. That is what cannot be broken in any way; it is what gives meaning to the presentation of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016; it is what gives continuity, stability and firmness, because stability is a great word. We have to change to improve, not to back off. For what you go up to the rostrum is not to make any proposal that does not mean to back down or generate a framework of political instability in Spain. Mr. Sánchez, I don't think you have much more time after the generals to go back to this rostrum. You are not going to rise as President of the Government and you will certainly not be the leader of the opposition that is debating with the next Minister of Finance the General Budgets of the State for next year. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Amendment to the full refund submitted by the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió. Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of my colleagues in the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, I would like to convey our condolences to the great socialist family for the death of Congressman Benegas. Many of my colleagues knew him, they were working intensively with him on various Commissions. He has been an important character and deserves our respect and I want all socialists to know that they have the love of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago he devoted himself to a doctoral thesis, and at that time he spent quite a few hours in the library of the Senate reading 'Diaries of Sessions' of Parliament; and the truth is that in the face of very important interventions, very positive, purposeful, respectful, from a personal point of view correct, interventions appear from time to time that, when you read them, despite the years and even though you know nothing more than by the history of the interface, as we say in Catalonia, you fall to one's face of shame. I have a feeling that sometimes in this Chamber this is happening. [[Applauds]] The intervention I am about to make is therefore going to try to deal with something that I believe we are considering today, which is the amendments to all the general state budgets for 2016. [[The lady]] There is a question that we Members, but also many citizens, ask ourselves, and that is an important question. The citizens wonder: why does the People's Party, the Government, process this bill knowing that the General Budgets of the State that they approve, as has been seen here in the previous intervention, can even be managed, if not implemented? Because it seems that there will be elections in November or December and, therefore, there may be a possibility of a new government, a new executive.Why should the Government deal with these General State Budgets in view of this eventuality? Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, there are two hypotheses: hypothesis A is that the Government can be convinced that this is a document, it is a procedure, it is something that is appropriate for society; that these general budgets are positive for the citizens and that is why it processes them; this is a first possibility. The B hypothesis is that the Government or the People's Party believes that beyond a document this is a set of procedures that suit the People's Party for its electoral interests. Logically, depending on one hypothesis, the legitimacy of this document is very different. From the point of view of legitimacy, I would even come to accept that it is legitimate for one to say that this is a good document for society and it also benefits us electorally because it gives us an image of seriousness, rigor, etc. But the biggest, the essential thing is that these are documents, budgets that benefit society. I will allow the Government to tell you that, in my view, this is not the case. This morning the Minister for Industry has tried to show that these budgets are the ones that suit Spanish society. Minister, the truth is that your morning intervention has not convinced me at all. You said that the general budgets serve to consolidate the recovery - first sentence -; then you counted that the general budgets are a kind of fair prize to the sufferers of their austerity policies, and finally, you told us, with a somewhat slashed voice - by that of the shame of others - that these were also very social budgets. These were your arguments, Minister. The truth is that I don't think we need to go looking for Don Ferrán Adrià to deconstruct his arguments; there's no need, ladies and gentlemen. For us, for Convergence these are not efficient budgets for recovery. There has been a debate here, and it must be acknowledged that the Minister has advanced the possible argument by saying that the merit of growth has something to do with what the Government is doing, because there are three exogenous elements - oil, euro and liquidity provided by the European Central Bank - from which, just as we can benefit, others also benefit. This would be dull in some cases. Our energy dependence is much greater than that of others and we should therefore be concerned, which the Government does not seem to be, but let's not go to the smallest, let's go to the largest. I believe that there is a fourth element that the Government has promoted - I admit it - and that is what has led to a very significant wage reduction. This, in our view, should not and cannot be perpetuated. This wage reduction that has taken place in many sectors has been the main route by which the Spanish economy has gained competitiveness, and this is a short-lived improvement, because in our view - I think it is fair to say - wages must grow again, and competitiveness improvements can therefore no longer depend on this, but must be linked to improvements in value added. This is the key for us. There has been talk - I take the words - of a change of productive model. It takes a change of productive model, I believe. Let's give him some guidelines that aren't new. My colleagues in Convergence and Convergence and Union have done so throughout this period. What are these budgets for SMEs? SMEs are basic for job creation, etc., but they need more than anyone else innovation, and innovation means, among other issues, that there is an R & D & I policy. You have reviewed the balance sheet of the legislature, we too, and we have seen two data that I have been blushed with. First of all, spending on R & D+i has fallen by no more than 33% over the course of the legislature. But what is even worse is that some years there has been an execution of less than 50%. This year something is certainly coming back, okay, but this increase is not in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises and the productive sectors, but it is concentrated in the large state centres, which I think very well exist, but not in all those centres for the transfer and application of knowledge, which are the ones that promote SME innovation. Change of model, Minister. [[The lady]] According to you your budgets favor recovery, but when you read the famous yellow book you are quite amazed: we make budgets for economic recovery. Agriculture, the primary sector, livestock and fisheries must have something. Why do the departures of this ministry fall by 13%? What about the industry? Well, it's down by 9.5%. Another heading, other activities of an economic nature, descends nothing more and nothing less than 28 %. What do recovery budgets mean where all economic sectors lose their resources? You have made many reforms, such as reforms in the electricity sector. I would like - we have said this repeatedly throughout the entire legislature - for you to tell us what competitiveness these reforms bring us in the electricity sector. Or do you want us to talk about interruptibility? Do you want us to talk about interruptibility? This is competitiveness for a lot of industry. Or if you want we also talk about what we can call policies of promotion, of support to industrial sectors. There has been a policy of these, with which we agree - we acknowledge and congratulate ourselves - in the car sector, with fantastic results, but in other sectors they are absolutely non-existent, as in the chemical sector, which is not a minor sector. The chemical sector accounts for 25% of Catalan exports, which, as you know, represents an important part of Spanish exports. You were talking about consolidating export is basic for recovery. If a sector as important as the chemist - if we want to talk about it in detail later - is not given a hand at all, what is the government doing in this sector? Mrs de Fomento is not here, but it has to be said that productive investment in infrastructure has been almost non-existent. We remain installed in a pharaonic AVE project, denounced already by almost all sectors - Cedea, the Court of Auditors, universities -, and meanwhile productive investments - Mediterranean corridor, Atlantic corridor or access to the port of Algeciras - nothing at all. Minister, Government, you are not prepared to do anything to support the increase in business productivity. I'm going to give you two more examples. You charged environmental investments at a basic time for our large companies to adapt to the best environmental techniques available, which is what European legislation requires. And you don't want to authorize large-scale trucks to make companies competitive. Mr Minister, these are not budgets that support a change in the productive model. [[The lady]] For Convergence these are not social budgets either. Reference has already been made to the figures, but they are very obvious. The main budgetary savings come from unemployment benefits: 5,480 million are saved. And I want to mention the figures again. Compared to 2011, the year we like so much, because unemployment was about the same as at the moment, this year we dedicate 39% less to benefits and 32% less to active policies. This is the great social policy. All of this has practical consequences on the street, and that must be said. What does it mean, for example, that the unemployment coverage rate is 55%, 25 points less than in 2010? To put it another way more crudely: only one in five long-term unemployed, unemployed more than four years old, has some kind of subsidy. This is the reality, Minister. The State's second social issue: pensions. I would like, Minister, to give you a piece of advice: be more humble. Do you think you can come here to give lessons on large pensions, when you are going to raise the minimum pension for ladies and gentlemen 1 euro and 45 cents a month? Do you think this is a receipt? Do you think it is welcome that we tell you that you gain purchasing power, when we all know perfectly well what a minimum pension is dedicated to - subsistence, food, energy, etc. - and we know that, for example, right now in Catalonia these expenses rise by 1.8%? And you say they gain purchasing power by raising them by 0.25%. Do you think it is welcome to present as something important an increase of 0.25 %, when a heading of your budget, high management - yourself - increases by 3,4 %? Very social, very social: in high management we increased by 3.4% and in pensions by 0.25 %. I believe, Minister, that these are not social budgets, not to mention the Unit Law. Here the issue is already scandalous. The State is already paying less than 20% of the costs of the Unit Act. Or if you want, we'll talk about another very relevant topic. Last week we kept a minute of silence, we all shared our sorrow for gender-based violence, and we all know that gender inequalities are also embryos of gender-based violence. What do you devote to these policies, Minister? Don't you know? I will give you a hint; the government does not even carry out a mandate from this Parliament as simple as carrying out in-depth studies on conciliation, hourly rationalization and co-responsibility. See if it would be simple, simply to do what we all agreed unanimously in this Parliament. Antisocial budgets are also budgets that despise culture. I am not going to go on with the subject of cultural VAT, which is unfortunately already a culebrón, but what are we waiting for, Minister, to reduce cultural VAT? These, Minister, are budgets obsessed with centralisation. All those items that mean an increase in state powers receive very generous increases. For example, civil protection, central services: 26% increase. There's generosity here. On the other hand, all those items that should be implemented by the Autonomous Communities, at least in part, have no contribution from the State, for example, justice, judicial fees. The law itself says that we must devote resources to free justice and, who do free justice, who help? The autonomous communities, therefore, not one euro. The same applies, for example, when the State does not provide the Integration Fund for immigration. I could give many examples, Minister. Mr Minister, all these arguments that I have given you of a social and economic nature would already be sufficient for our group, the Democratic Convergence, to present this amendment in its entirety, but in case this was not enough, there is an additional argument: these are terrible budgets for Catalonia. In fact, it is the second lowest investment in recent years. We are the second autonomous community with less investment per capita. There are some chilling data, where fewer highways are available, where more toll roads are available, less road investment is available, a miserable 8%. You have dedicated yourselves to blocking strategic investments such as the Mediterranean corridor, for which the commitment was 2015 and in your budgets it appears that it will end in 2019, incomprehensible; or the N-340 in Tarragona; the Pyrenean axis Lleida-Girona; the N-II in Girona; the variant of Vallirana, which has been in works for fourteen years; the Sagrera station in Barcelona; the accesses to the port of Barcelona, or the vicinity of Barcelona. Another example, since we are talking both about tourism and an economic factor, is missing a departure for something as important as coastal protection in Catalonia, and I think that also in other communities. There is unequal treatment of Catalan cultural institutions. Minister, have you seen the matches that correspond to the High School and the Royal Theatre? Why do you fulfill your commitments - which I think is very good - to the Royal Theatre and why do you fail them in high school? Minister, you know that the city of Tarragona and other cities are going to celebrate in 2017 the Mediterranean Games, which were held a few years ago in Almeria with great support from the state - which I think is fantastic - but there is not a euro for it. A contribution commitment of 15 million euros absolutely unfulfilled. Minister, I think we have a lot of arguments to show that these are not the general state budgets that serve for recovery. For what you serve, Minister, it is to continue your policy of using Catalonia as an electoral weapon, and I am sure that my intervention, and possibly others, will serve you to continue to soften your arguments of firmness against Catalonia. I was told in a Commission these days: how can you ask for resources for a given highway if your party presents a certain political choice in the face of elections? I was told this. But these are not the budgets for my party. Not even for the voters of my party. These are the budgets for the seven and a half million citizens of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] I don't know, maybe you have every right to punish us as a party. But you're punishing the seven and a half million citizens of Catalonia. He's doing it. And the most serious thing is that you go to other parts of Spain and say: look at these Catalan rebels how to treat them, look at how to punish them. Because, of course, at last you know that this reports votes to the People's Party. And this is the sad thing, and this, Minister, gentlemen of the Government, is what hypothesis B confirms: you have not made these budgets for the good of Spanish and Catalan society, but you have made them purely and simply for your electoral interests. That is why we are presenting this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u25	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the same group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance and Public Administration, first of all, I would like to express on behalf of the Members of the Union, as our President, Mr Duran i Lleida, did this morning to the families of Txiki Benegas, through his son Pablo, our condolences to the family, our condolences to the socialist family, to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Txiki Benegas was a dear friend of many Members of the Union, an excellent politician and an excellent person, to whom we also want to express from the Union: Txiki, we will never forget you. [[Applauds]] Why have we tabled a full amendment by the Members of the European Parliament? Minister, for four basic and fundamental reasons. Firstly, Mr Montoro, because from Unió we believe that these budgets are of low intensity and democratic quality, they are extremely triumphant, electoral and propagandistic budgets. Secondly, Minister, we since Union sincerely believe that these are very unfair, unfair and insolidary budgets with Catalonia, obsessively centralising, and that they unfortunately mistreat Catalan citizens economically. Thirdly, Mr Minister, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety because we believe that they do not include the solid foundations for growth and job creation, job generation, and job generation, which for us is basic and fundamental. Finally, there is a fourth motivation: we believe from Unió that they are budgets - as we have been denouncing throughout this whole legislature, year after year - that have no social soul. Why do we say, Minister, that they are budgets of low intensity and democratic quality and that they are electoral, triumphalistic and propagandistic budgets? First of all, Minister, because you know that you have transformed this debate as important as the debate on the General State Budgets for 2016 in the debate on the start of the People's Party campaign for the future general elections. They know very well that there were other alternatives to this debate and they have chosen to make propaganda, to make triumphalism, and that is why we have said, from the political and economic perspective, that they lack sufficient democratic quality to analyse these budgets that are so important to all the citizens of the Spanish State. We sincerely believe that it is neither serious nor rigorous, it is undemocratic, and it implies a certain lack of respect for the rest of political formations and also a certain lack of respect for all the citizens who are watching us through the television cameras. We have already stated on several occasions since they were presented that they were budgets in which we understood that you used as an electoral weapon the financial resources that apply to officials. There are other alternatives, we think it is perfect that they have the corresponding salary increases, to which they committed in 2012, but there were other alternatives not to pose them from a tremendously electoral perspective. They are also propaganda budgets, as I said before, because listening to you this morning, with all our respect, Minister, it seems that there are no unemployed young people in Spain and you know that there is more than 50% unemployment among the youth population; it seems that there are no unemployed people of more than forty-five years' duration, and you know perfectly well that they exist; it seems that we have emerged from the crisis when we have actually emerged from the recession, and it seems that there is no poverty in Spain, and nothing further from reality, Minister. We have been maintaining throughout this legislature that there are a lot of Spanish families who have serious difficulties in reaching the end of the month, and that there are a lot of families who have serious difficulties in finding work. That is why - as I will explain later - we have tabled this amendment as a whole: because they lack a social soul. Secondly, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety since the Union: for Catalonia. We sincerely believe that these are very unfair, unfair and insolidary budgets with regard to Catalonia. These are budgets - and I shall refer to that later - which unnecessarily mistreat the citizens of Catalonia, which mistreat them economically, to say the least, in clear and transparent language. In addition, Minister, these budgets are further aggravating and deepening the tense relations between Catalonia and Spain. But the most serious thing, Mr Montoro - another important issue -, by mistreating and being insolidary and unfair with Catalonia, you without wanting it and without realizing it are greatly harming the Spanish economy, because, how are you going to achieve the objectives that you have detailed this morning if you are going to derail the train machine? In other words, Catalonia, whether you like it or not, is the economic locomotive of the Spanish state, and punishing Catalonia is seriously damaging, I would say, the interests of Spanish politics. I will illustrate it to you, Minister, with different figures. You know perfectly well that the level of investment in productive infrastructure in Catalonia is 10.7%, but, Minister, I would like you to really know what your economic reality is. Catalonia contributes 19% of GDP to the Spanish State, accounts for 20% of tax collection across Spain, accounts for 35% of exporting companies, contributes 22% of investment in R & D+i, and accounts for 26% of the Spanish State's total exports in millions of euros. Why is this punishment to Catalonia only giving rise to an investment of 10.7%? We find no explanation or political or economic justification for this insolidity, this injustice and this contempt for the locomotive of the Spanish economy. I hope you'll explain it to us in your answer. Entering directly into figures that are perfectly detailed in the budgets there is, minister, a decrease of investment in two basic projects that we consider fundamental for the Catalan and Spanish economy: in the Mediterranean corridor and in all those aspects that refer to the expansion of the railway network to connect the port of Barcelona with the Mediterranean corridor. We do not understand why the main section of the Mediterranean corridor between Castellbisbal and Martorell is dead, why the low investment of the unfolding of the A-2, why the low investment of the variant of Vallirana in the 340, why the low investment of the fourth belt of Catalonia, why the low investment contemplated in the A-14, which opens its way through Lleida, and why there are fewer resources for public transport. Minister, there is no investment in metro and metropolitan transport. Nor do we understand the disinvestment of Catalonia, which refers to the proximity of Barcelona in the rail sector, or why the Catalan Pyrenean axis disappears from Catalonia. We do not understand why Catalonia-Lleida disappears; we do not understand sincerely why Terres de l'Ebre disappears in those approaches that affect Catalonia's investments, and at the same time we do not understand why the implementation of these investments in Catalonia is always below 80%. I would tell you the same about the aspects that refer to cultural infrastructures, in which there is always a great economic benefit for investments in Madrid, which we do not criticise, but we would also like the justifications for the 100 percent of the investments you make in Queen Sofia, the Museo de El Prado or the Teatro Real to be present in Catalan infrastructures. We do not understand why you do not lower cultural VAT - it is an approach that we have tried to define at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies throughout this legislature - and we do not understand why you flagrantly fail to comply with the law. They do not comply with the third additional provision approved by the Catalonia-State Bilateral Commission, knowing perfectly well that Catalonia accounts for 759 million in 2008. We do not understand the reason for this flagrant violation of the law. Nor do we understand, Mr Montoro, that you have presented yourself...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u27	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u28	I am finishing, Madam President, but I have a few minutes to complete my speech and adjust to the time we had previously set with the President of Congress. We do not understand how it has not been presented before this Congress with a new funding system for the autonomous communities. We do not understand how they have dared to pose Lomce, because it is a frontal attack on the model of linguistic investment. We do not understand a number of issues relating to the re-centralization of the State of self-government. It is already progressing that for Unió will be fundamental in the amendments that we are going to propose that a budget of 15 million euros be incorporated into these General State Budgets so that Tarragona is the official seat of the Mediterranean Winter Games, so that Tarragona and the fifteen sub-sales that are perfectly detailed in it can represent a comprehensive project of economic improvement, of quality of tourism and a great investment for all the regions of Tarragona. There is another issue I wanted to highlight, which is another motivation for why the amendment as a whole. We understand that these budgets do not provide a solid basis for recovery and job creation. We believe that you have missed a great opportunity with regard to the savings that you are going to implement in the 2016 General State Budgets, as is the savings of €2 billion in public debt interest spending. We do not understand how they have not been able, how they have not had the political courage to apply them to research, development and innovation. You know perfectly well, Minister, that everything that presupposes investment in research, development and innovation is going to be jobs for the future. This is an issue that we too will consider in the partial amendments that we are going to table. It is a missed opportunity to consolidate a good industrial policy, a good policy of supporting the agri-food industry, a good policy of supporting self-employed workers, self-employed entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. In these items both from the Ministry of Industry and from the Ministry of Agriculture there are discounts of more than two digits in these budgets. We do not understand how, if we are talking about the generation of jobs, you leave everything unique and exclusively in the hands of companies, which is already very well, but you do not do the duties to be able to boost such investments, to consolidate a good industrial policy. He talks about the restructuring of the financial sector. It has taken its toll, and to some extent I am glad that in the restructuring of the financial sector the Spanish depositors and savers have kept their deposits, for which it has been worth it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u29	Mr Sánchez i Llibre, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u30	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u31	Finish, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u32	I'm asking you for one more minute, Madam President. We have managed to keep the depositors' savings, but it will cost us this restructuring, Mr Montoro, more than EUR 50 billion, which we are going to pay all the taxpayers. We must therefore say absolutely everything. Finally - and with this I will definitely finish, Madam President - these budgets have no social soul. We have seen this in the increase in pensions, which I would say is minimal, irritating, in the Unit Law, in the delay in the regulatory base of widowhood pensions, in which it turns its back on families, there are not enough endowments for scholarships, four out of five unemployed have no benefits...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u33	Mr. Sánchez i Llibre, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u34	...and logically poverty does not exist for the People's Party. For these important four reasons, Madam President, the Union Party has tabled these amendments in their entirety. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u35	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am responding to the demands of Convergence, which is now a party clearly differentiated for political reasons by Union, for political reasons of great importance, by the way, both with amendments tabled in their entirety and ask themselves why and why. Frankly, they are presenting amendments to the whole of the two because they have done so throughout the legislature. That is the reason, the only reason, because I have not heard in your arguments that you are discussing that in Catalonia and throughout Spain there is economic recovery, that you are discussing that there is job creation. What they have come to criticize is that we still lack much, of course. Recovery is a process and neither I nor any member of the Government will pretend to appear before the House or the public saying that we have reached the goal in no way. What we are talking about is an economic process of income growth, how that income growth is going to new employment opportunities, in Catalonia and throughout Spain. Or isn't it happening in Catalonia? What's going on in Catalonia? Is Catalonia growing? Is employment being created in Catalonia? Yes, employment is being created in Catalonia, it is being done at very similar rates to the national average; even, in terms of social security membership, slightly above the national average. That means a lot, because I am convinced that the Catalans want welfare and employment and cannot understand their welfare without employment, like the rest of the Spanish and the rest of the Europeans. We cannot understand that we live in a society where we lack opportunities for equality in terms of access to jobs for all, but especially for young people. Catalonia is growing because it is Spain. If I were part of another of the big countries that I mentioned this morning, I would be growing the third part or I would not be growing, but being part of Spain is growing, for a reason that can be obvious, but that it is important that we highlight it this afternoon and in all the forums and in all the opportunities that we have. The Catalan economy - one of you has said - is the engine of Spain. It's more than that. The Catalan economy is the Spanish economy. What produces Catalonia is sold in more than 60% in the rest of Spain. That is economic integration, which has taken centuries, is not something we have been able to build now, but it has taken centuries, centuries of economic integration. That's why Catalonia is Spain in economic terms and when Spain as a whole is recovering, Catalonia is recovering. That is also as a result of Catalonia having a diverse economic structure, it has a productive economic structure, with a very powerful agri-food sector, now also very exportative, with an industry that is also thriving, receiving of course, as happens in much of the rest of Spain - I hope it will pass more -, investments of multinationals in the field of industry, and in a prominent position - I mentioned this morning - with the chemical sector, one of the major export sectors of the Catalan economy and the Spanish economy. I mentioned it this morning expressly as one of the great contributors to Spain's trade balance. In Catalonia, therefore, there is a positive economic development. They are always presented at the level of the victims in the sense of: but we lack something. Of course they are missing: Catalonia, Spain, Europe and the world. We will always lack something in terms of aspirations for well-being, of goals to which we aspire, of goals of prosperity. We're always gonna miss something. That is the great train of economic progress and social progress, but from there to collegiate that with instruments or tools of this government, with the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016 there is discrimination for Catalonia and for Catalans, where do they see it? They've had a hard time finding her, frankly. Recognize it, because it doesn't exist. In this legislature we have experienced - this morning my exposure was long enough - the most serious fiscal crisis in the recent history of Spain. I don't mean other moments in history. The state broke on numerous occasions in Spain; even in modern history we have something like a record of state bankruptcies, which mean economic bankruptcies throughout the country. We have faced one of the most severe tax crises in this legislature. When we said this morning and this afternoon that the public deficit in our country grew from 2009 to 2011 by 13 points of GDP means that the state is bankrupt. When that happens, the whole state, the state of autonomy, goes bankrupt. At the beginning of this legislature the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, could not access the markets. That had been the case since 2012. And what have we done? From the Government of Spain to fulfil our obligation, to fill that gap with special financing instruments. If I said this morning that more than 183 billion euros is the total of the special financing mechanisms - suppliers, FLA - that we have put into effect, almost 40 billion euros have gone to Catalonia. They had to go to Catalonia, I add it naturally. It is not that we have done anything exceptional, we have fulfilled our duty, but I ask your honor to acknowledge that we have done something together in financing the public services of Catalans, because that has been paying to providers of those public services. We paid for public services from the Catalan municipalities, we paid for public services from a broken Generalitat. Or was the Generalitat not broken at the beginning of 2012, when in 2011 it had to issue patriotic bonds and appeal to patriotism as an economic reason to buy you state bonds? This morning the Spanish Treasury placed three months at negative interest rates and practically zero at nine months this morning. What does that mean? That, with all the convulsions - there are also convulsions now coming from Asia and convulsions coming from Europe - we are within a system, we are members of a system that is the euro, the European Union, where the Spanish State has been able to provide this funding for Catalonia and for all the autonomous communities that received suppliers in 2012 - all the autonomous communities of Spain, minus one, received suppliers in 2012 - and then to the liquidity mechanisms, which are indebtedness, indebtedness that the State is supplying. The State supplements what the autonomous community would have to be indebted for because we do it at lower rates and in this way we all favour each other and the autonomous community releases resources for its budgets. That the autonomous community will continue to have difficulties in terms of lack of resources? Clearly, it is the fiscal crisis that is present, but that is what we have done. We have financed Catalonia's public services with this €40 billion that we have put into effect and, in addition, for next year, the advances to account derived from the current financing system also schedule a significant increase for Catalonia. The total of the autonomous communities is growing by 8.74 % and Catalonia is growing by 12.12 % for next year, which means that the autonomous communities are increasing their funding, according to the current funding system, by 7.455 million euros and Catalonia is doing it by 1.8 billion more euros, additional to its budget. In addition, they will have a savings derived from the financing mechanisms, from what the State is doing, which is that that debt that has already issued Catalonia the State is supplying it at zero cost, which means that for next year the total savings of interest for the autonomous communities will be 2,908,88 million euros, of which Catalonia is responsible 1,026 million euros. Where, then, is discrimination? These are the figures for funding. You said that we have not had time to make a new funding system. No, we haven't had time. I understand that your lordships can have time for everything, even to learn to play juggling games. We have faced a crisis that seemed impossible to overcome, we are overcoming it and we are doing it together. That's what we should emphasize, we're overcoming it together. Regionalized budget investments are growing next year for Catalonia by 10%. Investments are what they are in this budget, I have already mentioned this morning. This is not an investor budget, it's a social budget, it's not an investor budget. It is a budget in which out of every 100 euros 39 go to pensions, 7 go to unemployment and similar expenses and 8 go to other social benefits, to which we must add that 70% of the financing in terms of transfers from the State through the financing system, which comes to be about 30 billion euros, goes also to social expenditure. Therefore, that is what we are doing in the budget for 2016. Some of you said that's electoralism. Oh, my God! Paying pensions, guaranteeing unemployment benefits, guaranteeing social protection is electoralism. Returning the effort to the officials, in Catalonia and throughout Spain, is electoralism. Doing so with the responsibility that we are doing when we have economic growth, when we have an increase in collection, an important collection, is that electoralism? I believe that it is fulfilling the primary, primary duty of a ruler to fulfil his commitment to society and that is what is positive for Catalans. How can you say that a budget that is so focused in social terms, in terms of guaranteeing public services, discriminates against Catalonia? How many millions of pensioners are there in Catalonia? How many unemployed are there in Catalonia? How many public services, hospitals, pharmacies, education, social protection, are supported by these funding systems in Catalonia? That's the budget. You say: there could have been more spending on other types of investments that are called productive. All right, I'd like that, too. Look, I wish I had had more chance to spend more on other investments, I know, but I don't have them. I have to meet the deficit target because it is what suits us and what is getting us out of the crisis. Or aren't we recovering the productive tissue in Catalonia? How are services growing in Catalonia? Don't they grow up? They don't grow, in spite of their sorrows. If there was another political environment in Catalonia, what would it be about Catalonia's economic recovery, what would we be talking about? In politics we always deal with what we have, we never think about what it would be if it wasn't, but if there wasn't so much political formation in Catalonia that what it does is to attack investment, then I'm sure Catalonia would do much better. When autonomous elections are called in which the ideology of those on the electoral list does not matter, the truth is that this creates a political confusion of the highest order. When you put a person, of course with all your responsibility and of course with all respectability but that belongs to the radical left, and you go with her as the leader of the radical left, you are launching a terrible political message for Catalonia's economic recovery. Or isn't it? Is that all right? I wouldn't go on a list with many of you, come on, I wouldn't go, I wouldn't think. [[Rumors]] No, no, neither would you accept me on that list, of course, but don't worry, that I wasn't going to give you the chance to be on it, that is, don't worry, that we all know in this life, at this height of our own existential circumstance, where we are, and of course I wouldn't go. I would not go because for me values are important, as well as the principles for which I work and for which we develop those policies, as I have had the opportunity to comment before. I don't change principles or values. I do have to make decisions that I don't like the way it's been to raise taxes. When we're lowering taxes, doesn't that affect Catalans? The decrease of the IRPF this year, which we have certainly been carrying down by normative capacity in the whole of Spain 2.4 billion euros, to which are added 1.5 billion euros of decrease of the IRPF in the month of July, that to the Catalans does not affect them? Does it not affect the competitiveness of the Catalan economy that there is a corporate tax that has already dropped its overall rate from 30% to 28% this year and is scheduled to fall to 25% next year? Doesn't that affect you? Isn't that the policy we're doing in this House and that's not for Catalonian companies? Well, I'd say yes, and I'd say no complexes, no compromises. I would say that we are doing something, something positive in terms of economic recovery. Or that chemistry sector. Can more be done for the chemical sector? Yeah, sure. Does not the unstoppable rise in energy costs affect this chemical sector? It affects him. Have we stopped that rise in energy costs, yes or no? We are therefore making policies, policies for these companies, so that these companies are effectively becoming more competitive, but we are doing so from that kind of policies - I insist, these are the budgets that we bring to the House - with the lowering of corporation tax for next year. Do you agree with that corporate tax reduction? I have not heard a word yet in the parliamentary debate on the lowering of the tax on companies that schedule these budgets. It is a decrease of the nominal rate to 25%, which, by making use of the reserves provided for in the law, would make the actual rate for SMEs - as you know they have double reserves, capitalization and levelling - to 20%. Does that not affect the Catalan businessman and the businessman of the whole of Spain? Well, that's what the State's General Budgets bring. They also affect by discount investments that the Government of Spain is committing and will continue to commit in the next General Budgets of the State within the European projects. One of them is the Mediterranean corridor, where very important investments are being made, which is a great demand from Catalonia, it is a great demand from its entrepreneurship, it is a demand that is met in these budgets, which is also a demand that has great consequences for the whole Mediterranean coast, of course reaching Algeciras. It is therefore a great project of Spain and Europe to belong to it. I ended up saying that I loved the expression, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, that these budgets have no soul. That's nice! We're getting poetic at this point in the afternoon once in the other degree. These budgets have no soul. Politics has soul, it is politics that has soul. You can't really do politics without calling the soul, you can't do it because you're missing something absolutely fundamental from politics. These budgets, which are taken for granted by officials, by technicians, but are supported by politicians, of course they have a soul is the soul of economic recovery. Isn't that the soul we have to cultivate? Isn't that the spirit we have to attend to? Is it not the definitive overcoming of the crisis and that Catalonia reaches full employment in most of its territory? Wasn't Catalonia in full employment at the beginning of 2008? What was Girona's unemployment rate? What was Lleida's unemployment rate? What was the unemployment rate of Tarragona and much of the province of Barcelona? That is possible and that is what these budgets are drawing up. That has nothing to do with adventures of another kind, it has nothing to do with pretensions to break the deck as certain politicians in Catalonia are claiming. That's the opposite, they create uncertainty, because they don't give a shit about ideas. All they care about is the nation. They are imbued with only one ideology: nationalism. Does it matter whether it is from one nation or from another? Not me, not me. I feel Spanish in this democracy, I feel Spanish in this Europe, integrated in this Europe. I wouldn't feel the same if Spain were anything else. This really is Spain, Spain devolved politically and administratively, Spain of the Constitution of 78. That is Spain in which I feel, Spain deeply European and committed, progressing and integrating into the European project. The European project is union, integration and not disintegration; it is not about recovering state structures or making dreams of countries that never existed in history, but rather on the contrary. It means integration into a political project, with a solid economic base - which we have highlighted here - to which Spain belongs and on which the Government of Spain works. That's why he said I don't understand his reasons, though he will. You supported a socialist government in 2010, which made the social cuts that I have already mentioned sufficiently throughout today. They said they did it for Spain's sake. At least it is a concept, it is good that they do so, but now that things are improving, it is when they have the opportunity not to look for differences, but to deepen what unites us, in what identifies us, in what brings us together in that project, that I am convinced that it interests the vast majority of Catalans: the process of economic recovery, of job creation and of completing their integration into Europe by living with the rest of the Spanish. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u37	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Montoro very sincerely for the magnificent election spot he has made. His words - you will see - will be widely reproduced when the occasion arrives, but today we are talking not about elections, but about their budget. Let's see if you understand, Mr. Montoro. We are interested in something very important: the well-being and progress of citizens in Catalonia. We have also historically been interested in being supportive of all the Spaniards and there is evidence - for that we work - but this that we are interested in sometimes seems to you to put, to put it in some way. You take action - you have said it - like raising taxes, and you raise 70 billion more in these years because you have to save the accounts, but of these 70 billion, of these new revenues, how many do you allocate to the autonomous communities? None. In addition, certain autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, are prevented from doing so. You are dedicated to blocking the banking rate, the euro per prescription or the judicial fees, for example; that is to say that Catalonia - also to other communities - does not give you any way to be able to finance yourself, which you do. He says, "Thank me, I'll lend you money." Yes, thank you very much, but we are going to give it back to you, also considering that it was a time when it was lending with quite remarkable interests. I think we're gonna give it back! Mr Montoro, the effort that the communities have made has been superior to that of the Government and you know it perfectly well. From 2011 to 2013, Catalonia's GDP effort was 2.58 %, while the State's effort was only 0.33 %. Who, then, is the reason for this great effort? Who did it? The Generalitat? No, the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, the citizens of Catalonia who have made this effort have every right to demand everything from their current state, which is the Spanish state. This is what we are going to do as legitimate representatives. We're going to demand it, and when you don't do it, we're going to remind you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u39	Thank you, Mr. Macias. Mr. Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to your speech and I have come to a conclusion: you, Mr Montoro, are a liberal minister without a social soul. I repeat, you are a liberal minister without a social soul, and this, Minister, is not poetry, it is prose. [[Applauds]] You know perfectly well, because you have an important economic academic background, that the market and economic recovery produce inequalities between the entire citizenship of the Spanish State; you know perfectly well that these inequalities have occurred in Spain, and you know perfectly well that there is what is called the social market economy or the economy of the common good. Well, since Unitio we always propose measures that go in the direction of the social economy of the market, of the economy of the common good, this is always incorporated in our measures, something that is lacking in these budgets, which lack a social soul. We remain in these these theses. Finally, Minister, we have never criticized the FLA, we have supported it, but you must know that the only one at your disposal at the General Secretariat of the Treasury to issue public debt and pay is the General Administration of the State. It would be more important if you had not lent money to the autonomous communities!; still today Catalonia is part of the Spanish state and it is its obligation to lend with interest. Therefore, as long as the Autonomous Communities do not have the General Secretariat of the Treasury or have no participation in the issue of Eurobonds, it is difficult to reach the conclusion that you have raised. Therefore, Minister, we maintain that these are budgets without a social soul and will defend it until the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you very much, Madam President, and ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u41	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it is not a question of having a social soul or not, it is the numbers of budgets, it is the figures, it is the applications, it is where the taxpayers' money is going that these budgets are programmed. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on!]] What we are submitting to the House is precisely these figures, these applications. It could have been other things, of course, but these are the ones we are proposing to the House. So, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, what are we proposing to the House? I have explained this before: a budget in which out of every 100 euros, it devotes 39 to pensions, 7 to unemployment and similar formulas, and 8 to other social benefits that go directly from the consolidated State budget to Social Security. In addition, our funding system programmes that the General Administration of the State, through its expenditure, allocates thirty and so many billion euros to the financing of the autonomous communities. Given what the autonomous communities do with these resources, which up to 80 per cent of their budget goes to social expenditure - education, health, social protection, dependency -, the rest of the activities that this budget is planning are very low, because the money there is for what I have just mentioned. That's what his soul will call his lordship. I can call him soul, heart and life. But it's numbers, it's not questionable. You'll say I'm a soulless liberal. You'll see when the Plural Left talk about what they're going to call me - they're already in charge, I'm not going to replace them in this budget debate about how they value me and qualify me - if you think I'm a liberal without a social soul. [[Laughter]] I understand that you define what you want, but recognize that these are the numbers. There are others who call me Social Democrat for presenting these figures in the budgets. One does what he can in life at this height and is defined by his numbers. A finance minister is valued on the basis of numerical results and makes his proposals in terms of numbers, figures. These are social budgets, you take your soul away from them or you don't take it away from them, but the numbers are overwhelming. With regard to who has made the adjustment, we have done so far by all public administrations. The 2011-2014 adjustment has been made by the Autonomous Communities in 1.68 % of gross domestic product and by the General Administration of the State, the central administrations in 1.60 %. That's what we've done. I have already said that this morning and on numerous occasions. We must assess what the autonomous communities and local corporations have done in reducing the public deficit. Have you heard from me any criticism or censorship in that regard? On the contrary, I am the one who is insisting more that we have to put into value what it means to do this in a few years -2011, 2012 and 2013 - of economic recession, a few years in which national economic activity was falling, until 2014 in which the first growth of 1.4% occurs. All the public administrations are making an effort, let's say so. Let's not start with: you haven't, because I have. This is measured, these are the figures. It seems to you that your effort is great, but we are doing it among all of us and that is what we have to value. I insist that it was the Social Security that did not do so, because it does not have to do so, because we do not have to make adjustments to Social Security. Social security will improve when they improve their income, of course, but it is also important that we come together, as we have done in the past through the Toledo Pact, to ensure this future of social security. Having said that, the State has not raised an additional €70 billion. God damn it! That's what was lost between 2008 and 2009. If we had raised an additional €70 billion, the public deficit in Spain would have completely disappeared. Those aren't the numbers. The figures are more modest. The increase in collection is in the order of EUR 20 billion. It is a fairly fair collection, because it is not of the IRPF - I am already comparing it with the advance of liquidation of 2015, which is contained in these General Budgets of the State -, it comes from the tax on companies - to the large companies we have asked a lot in terms of collection - of split payments, and it comes from VAT, which is now when it is being collected, when the economy is growing, when consumption is growing, because families are spending in Catalonia and throughout Spain. So those are the figures. If we manage figures that do not exist, we can increase the collection in the Spanish state as a whole by 70 billion euros, which are 7 points of GDP. If we had done this, we would already be in a huge budget surplus. The figure is much more modest and needs to evolve according to the level of economic activity, such as the figure of expenditure. We are not asking that, in the future, for the autonomous communities, for Catalonia to reduce the total public expenditure, we are asking that the total public expenditure grow less than the economic activity of the country does. We are not facing a stage of public spending cuts such as those we have experienced in the past. This is the difference from what we have ahead. It will be much easier to govern public finances in this approach and, of course, by stimulating economic activity with other policies and, also, by collecting more as a result of greater economic activity. But the government's plan is not to increase the tax burden on levels of 38-39% of gross domestic product, but to return taxpayers, citizens, in the form of a tax reduction, as we are already doing in 2015 with the reduction of the IRPF. If we are already paying high taxes, let us not reproduce the taxable facts in the different territories, because in this way we do what we do is harm the taxpayer, distort economic activity and sometimes put ourselves in front of the European authority itself, which with good criteria does not allow such reproduction of taxable facts in their territories, because this goes against economic recovery and job creation in Catalonia and throughout Spain. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia is growing, creating jobs, because it is Spain, and we need Catalonia to overcome this crisis, because the best prize for Catalans will be the definitive overcoming of the economic crisis and the employment opportunities that can be created by the end of the next parliamentary term. [[Mr Macias i Arau asks for the floor]] Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u43	Thank you, Minister. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u44	Mr President, I have said a wrong number. It wasn't 70 billion, it was 27,000. I'd appreciate it if you'd put it on the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u45	That's how it'll be recorded. IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. You have the floor, first of all, Mr Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, we also wanted to join our parliamentary group in expressing our condolences to the family and the Socialist Party for the death of Txiqui Benegas. This debate that we are beginning in the case of my group at this time is the fifth that we are already doing on the General Budgets of the State and we hope that it will also be Mr Montoro's last as Minister of Finance so that this means economic consequences, because we believe that we must change the course that we consider to be suicidal in this economic policy and that, therefore, it is necessary and necessary that there be a new government after December that implements an economic policy in a completely different way. We have reviewed and studied these budgets in depth, as every year, and to some extent, returning to the debate I was having with the previous group, it is true that by the numbers you will know them. It is possible to define people ideologically through general budgets because they ultimately represent a way of understanding society. The problem of defining you, Mr Montoro, is not simply whether you are more or less liberal; the problem is the dissociation that exists between theory and practice, because if you were a true liberal you would want to regulate everything, absolutely everything by the logic of the market, and in fact that is not what is happening in this legislature, to which you made more reference than to the general budgets of the State itself this morning. Because you would rather be a liberal of really existing liberalism, that is to say that when things go well for a social minority you think it is necessary to deregulate the markets, but when it turns out that a social minority, big fortunes, big companies or an oligarchy in this country begin to suffer in some way some kind of economic perchance, you are moved, like your government, and you leave quickly to help. That is why you are to some extent liberal of really existing liberalism, from which you socialize losses and intervene in the economy to save the rich and the friends, and privatize the profits that is when the economy is giving its fruits to a social minority. That is what these general budgets ultimately represent, also this year. General budgets that we could define of fantasy; of fantasy by the predictions and hypotheses on which they are based and of fantasy by the world that they intend to reflect. Even in his own intervention, when talking about economic recovery over and over again, he forgot the subject, who has recovered economically, because it is not the same thing to talk about multinationals, it is not the same thing to talk about the owners of financial assets that talk about the social majority that is suffering in a greater or lesser way, but to a great extent dramatically, the consequences of the crisis and of the neoliberal management of the crisis. That is why it is so important to always point out which subject is recovering economically. Mr Montoro, in liberalism, the really existing and the not really existing, that is to say in theory, there is always a tendency to try to get out of crises by generating the conditions for entering into new ones. You said that Mariano Rajoy's government, his government, avoided the rescue. And you have also said that economic measures have been put in place that will allow economic recovery. We maintain that both issues are false. First of all, because there was a ransom. There was a financial rescue and there were also all the consequences of any other kind of rescue, that is, we did not need to have a memorandum exactly the same as that of Greece to do the same things as Greece, because here it has been privatized; here it has been made - and you have recognized it - the greatest economic adjustment on that public expenditure and that public investment, which means on health, education, pensions: on the social state. In this sense, rescue, whether in one way or another, has taken place, but also having in its favour a very favourable external condition, such as the intervention of central banks. At the international level, central banks have been injecting liquidity, flooding the financial system with money and thus generating the conditions for a new financial crisis. What I have just said has been saying for several years in this House, and today we are already seeing certain news pointing in this direction, as is the case with China and the international financial markets. The only consequence that it has had to inject money so high, so stratospheric, into the financial system has been to cause a financial bubble because the owners of financial assets, including public debt and other financial products, are the ones who have come out favored, but that is not all Spanish or all Spanish. You will have to go out on the street, or do a financial survey of families, to ask people who own those financial assets that have been benefited by the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Obviously it is not the social majority, but a minority that has seen how the European Central Bank continues to give money for the casino to remain open. Money and practices to which this Government, and the former Socialist Party, contributed with its bailouts to the financial system, by giving more money to those responsible for the crisis without that being translated into a growth of the productive economy. Money that in the Spanish case adds more than a billion euros in guarantees, guarantees, loans, bank capitalization... In short: a lot of money to save a few as much as the excuse and rhetoric are to save depositors when the reality is actually to save creditors. Then, at the national level, we have found that what we are seeing from the false economic recovery is the repetition of the same model from which we came before, a model in which, as we are seeing, the small increase in employment is occurring in sectors such as hospitality, restoration or real estate activities. We are replicating the same model favored by the external conditions of high funding, although this could generate a financial crisis very soon, unfortunately sooner than later. We are not talking about changing the productive model, Mr Montoro, and these budgets should have been the opportunity, like the previous five, to change the productive structure. Because the real problem with our economy is not that the workers cover a lot. The real problem with our economy is that we have a low-value-added economy because our workers, those in our country, work more hours a year than the Germans - and the Greeks even more - but it turns out that we have less productivity. But that is not because we are vague, Mr Montoro, and you know it because you are Andalusian and we are accused of being vague, of being Mediterranean and of being lying on the shelf, but you know that is not true. We're workers and we're efficient. The problem is that there is no productive structure to be able to generate high value added product, and it is not the same thing to produce a BMW or an Airbus that will ultimately export agricultural products. That is what ultimately defines the difference between the countries of central Europe and the countries of the south; that is the political debate that must face serious budgets. A serious debate that is very different from what we have had here this afternoon. A debate that goes to the root of the problems. But the budgets do not go to that debate but rather to replicate the models that have failed, models of indebtedness, models of high inequality of income, wealth, heritage; models, in short, that go, as in the Spanish case and in the case that you are defending, towards a horizon of job insecurity and permanent crisis for the social majority. You know that this horizon exists because you have decided to move what was the failed model of the real estate bubble - for which you were also responsible as a minister of that government -, characterized by the indebtedness for the consumption of housing, builders, etc., towards a very different model that is that of competitiveness through low wages. That's what you're doing: designing a model of job insecurity. And there are already features, Mr Montoro, that you are not creating employment, you are tearing down the actual existing employment. You are tearing down the existing job and replacing a worker with rights by two workers without rights. So simple! That is why the number of temporary contracts is multiplied, that is why partial contracts are multiplied, and you know, for example, that 60% of those who have such partial contracts would like to have a full-time contract. And he also knows that at this very moment, not only are there millions of unemployed, but there are more than 700,000 households that have no income at all. How is it possible to say, Mr Montoro, that this is economic recovery, when a truly dramatic work scenario is being drawn? Do you know that the average duration of employment contracts is 54 days and that the number of one-day contracts has doubled? Mr. Montoro, have you tried to look for work per day? One day you have a contract and the next day you get your life back. Moreover, according to the CIS, more than 60% of the Spanish population earns less than 1,200 euros; the normal thing is that, if you are lucky, you collect less than 900 euros. Do you know what it's like to live up to death in those conditions? That's the scenario those budgets draw, that's the real scenario. You, with this budget, with these reforms and with the previous ones, are in a constituent process, you are adapting the legal-political institutions to the needs of a capitalism that is not even an advanced capitalism, it is a capitalism to compete, through cheap labour, with other countries like China. This is a bottomless race, a race in which one can never win and, above all, a race in which all the rights, values and principles that make sense to a political community are lost. That is why you have boosted labour law; not only you, the Socialist Party, made a labor reform in 2010 that resulted in a general strike. There were already established the principles that dynamite labour law, the principles to end collective bargaining, to put in place a lever to facilitate wage cuts, but that you continued with the 2012 labour reform, continued with the pension reform and continued with what they call structural reforms. They are adapting the legal-political institutions to those needs of an economic world that is never going to win, because you can never win in low wages to the rest of the countries, you can never win in that competitiveness! [[Applauds]] That's why we have to think that there are alternatives. There are alternatives that involve changing the productive model, but one of the fundamental levers for this is investment in innovation and development. However, his Government, in four years, had reduced funding to that sector by 25%, a sector that had been hit hard at the time, a sector with an ageing workforce, because professionals and scientists had to leave the country to look for alternatives. They are decapitalizing the skilled and unskilled labour force that could be the engine of change in this country, which is having to go and also with democratic aggravations, because the Socialist Party and the People's Party introduced legislative reforms, such as the call for votes, to make it difficult for those people who were forced to go to vote accordingly, with the anger and frustration generated by the governments that were ultimately throwing them out. That is the system you have created and we propose a different system to you, but that different system needs political will and this government we see, because by its numbers it will be known to you, it does not have it. At the moment, Mr Montoro, the figure of the poor worker is a normal thing in this country. I remember that ten years ago the figure of the milleurist was a strange thing; today it is almost a privilege in the imaginary of society. Today the figure of the poor worker is the most widespread; according to statistics, over 12% are already poor workers, with a rather conservative definition of the poor worker. Its policies are generating greater inequality between rich and poor and between men and women. The wage gap between men and women continues to increase. At this time, for example, a woman has to work more than 79 days a year in order to earn the same as a man. That wage gap continues to grow. Pensioners are in an even worse situation, because it is true that right now there is no inflation, but at any time they will see their purchasing power diminished as never before. I also admit that there was a pension reform of the Socialist Party which was characterized by cuts to pensioners, but that does not remove the problem from your own reforms. The same is true in health, with what it means to end the principle of universal health. At this time, according to the statements of this Government - for the time being only statements - they will try to change that situation. Mr Montoro, of course there are alternatives; there are alternatives, as I said before, if there is political will. Why not invest in high-value-added sectors? Why not take advantage of this in order not to be a low-wage economy? Why not? Why not prioritise investment in innovation and development rather than other budget items? Why not use the money fairly, Mr. Montoro? You and I have debated in this Congress many times over the past four years about tax reform and I have always said the same thing to you, I have been consistent. When you gradually raised taxes and were right, we reminded you. We've been consistent. What happens is that if you take a look at all your reforms, all of them, from the first to the last, you find that the IRPF has become more unequal and that the incomes that charge more than 300,000 euros are being favored right now with respect to the principle of the legislature. As much as you have raised your income from capital, ultimately there is still a very clear discrimination with respect to income from work. It is true that you initially raised taxes or made reforms so that in corporation tax the effective rate would be higher than before, but it remains ridiculous, Mr Montoro. What is the actual type that large companies pay? 5%, as you once said? Maybe. It may also be, as you said again, that 3% was what was paid before, but it is still ridiculous compared to what most people pay. That means that a basic principle of our 1978 Constitution, which says that the tax system must be progressive, is being damaged. It turns out that the sections, the fiscal design plus tax havens and fraud are making that article of the Constitution, the 31, not being fulfilled, which means that you are going against the Constitution itself, in which so many times they are paralyzed for any other matter. What about cultural VAT, Mr Montoro, because culture is not only a quantitative element but also a qualitative one. It expresses principles and values that are deeply rooted in identity and would be consistent for those who define themselves as patriots, in the sense that everyone wants to consider, to defend their own culture. That means that you can't put the boot on your neck to a sector that is already quite touched as a result of the crisis. Mr. Montoro, allow me to insist once. You say continuously: There is no money and these people of the radical left - radical left is a concept that has been used in this debate several times throughout this morning and this afternoon - is in other worlds. We believe that the solutions of this country need to be radical, that is, go to the root of the problem; what cannot be done is politics, always be in the epidermis of the problem, on the surface, sailing between empty signifiers. In the end you have to go down to reality and go to the circumstances. And when we say there's money, it's not that we say it, it's that you say it, because it turns out that when you want there's money. There is money to rescue banks, highways or any big company that asks for a favor or - who knows - any darker process than it seems, because there are many cases of corruption that we have known that affect your party and that have its root and core in the relationship between public and private power. But it's not just that. I told you before that you don't have to have a ransom like Greece to be Greece, and you have shown it. In Greece right now the approved memorandum also implies the privatization of public assets. There are already more than a dozen airports being privatized. Well, it turns out that here we have done practically the same with AENA without needing that ransom, practically the same: to decapitalize public assets, however much it is said that money is made with it. [[Applauds]] You can earn a few crumbs, but it is always better to have public companies with which to have a business and a way to enter money. Do you know one thing, Mr Montoro, that has surprised me in the last two years, myself and my parliamentary group? That his Government had not once spoken of Endesa, not once of the looting of Endesa. I asked the Minister of the Economy and Mariano Rajoy and I now ask you as Minister of Finance: What does this government have to say about Endesa? Endesa had two lootings. The first was privatization, first by the PSOE and finally by the People's Party. Thus, a public enterprise that could guarantee a basic supply, such as energy, to the majority of citizens passed into the hands of private capital. First looting. Second looting: Just a few months ago, a dividend of EUR 14 billion was distributed. How do you say there's no money when a state-owned company distributes EUR 14 billion to shareholders, to ENEL? And in order to carry out this formula it is indebted to another company that is also from ENEL and it decapitalizes a public company, it is emptied, plundered, without this government saying a single word about that scandal. Why is there money for that, to distribute it among Endesa shareholders or for financial bailouts, and there is no money for health, education or the necessary structural reform of our state? That's what we need, Mr. Montoro. I'm done. We need a new model of a country, and a new model of a country is not to look like China in its labour relations; a new model of a country involves being civilized, because there is no political community that holds on to so much inequality. This is not a recent discovery, Machiavelli himself was already talking about the circumstances and how equality or inequality affects the maintenance of a political community. If this Government continues to bet on a model that increases inequality, it is ultimately putting an end to the foundations that enable a cohesive political community to exist. To look like China, Mr Montoro, to play the same cards as China is not only a very risky bet, but it is aimed at economic, political and social failure, because the economy is a political economy. Therefore, Mr Montoro, our group is asking you to withdraw these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislature ends the same way it began, with a People's Party government lying and cheating on citizens, and you, Mr Montoro, have the dishonor of presenting the most false budgets in history. They're fake from their foundations, with absolutely unreal spending ceiling forecasts, you know that. Pretending that between 2015 and 2016 the public deficit will be reduced by 3%, that is, more than half, is a mockery of this Congress, and saying that that is going to be done with social budgets is to deceive citizens even more. Social expenditure in these budgets, Mr Montoro, is reduced by 0.4% compared to 2015, by 0.7% in real terms. We do not say that, it has just been denounced by the trade unions in this country. Their deceptions and budgetary lies, in addition to damaging and corrupting democracy, have a serious social impact. They are leading Social Security to a risk situation because of its blind policy, obsessed with reducing pensions and careless about securing and increasing income. Last year you told us that contributions would increase by 6.8% in 2015. We arrived in June 2015, the contributions have had an increase of 1.32%, and you come back this year and tell us that next year they are going to rise by 8.4%. Aren't you ashamed of yourself after that? Not even with all the cubes of all the trilers in the world you're going to get someone to create those numbers, it's impossible. [[Applauds]] They are deceptions and lies that have serious social consequences. You are putting Social Security at risk, not because it is inviable, but to save yourselves politically. Pensioners will lose purchasing power again in 2016 with these budgets and this adds to the loss of purchasing power of 3,4 % between 2010 and 2014; so that you cannot do bipartisan demagogy I insist, 2010-2014. Unfortunately, with its law, which ended with the automatic revaluation of pensions, pensioners in this country are doomed to lose purchasing power forever, because with an increase of 0.25 %, with a little inflation occurring, the pharmaceutical co-op and the rise of the food CPI of 1.4 %, today pensioners can buy fewer things than yesterday and unfortunately more than tomorrow, because they will again lose purchasing power. Whatever social indicator is used, the Rajoy government is going to leave this country worse than it found it, and that was difficult. Today there are 598,000 less employed and 613,000 less wage earners than in December 2011, calculated in part-time equivalent employment, which is what counts; national accounts, are certain numbers. Today his promise to end the labor duality has been to equal all to the low, precarious, turning decent work into precarious. Precarity has more and more women's faces, such as poverty. Forced part-time contracts have increased, implying wages below the poverty line and their subsequent impact on poverty pensions. Today, Mr Montoro, thanks to the decree-law of July 2012 that you brought here as compensation to the memorandum to save banks in this country, only 55 out of 100 unemployed receive benefits, ten points less than in 2011, and more than half of those who receive something receive only assistance. It's the data from the Public Employment Service last month, and I hope you know them. The main victims of their policies are those over 50 years of age. The reform of the People's Party and of Convergence and Union facilitated his dismissal, encouraged him. Those over the age of 50 were not offered any job opportunities, their unemployment benefits were reduced and access to early retirement had been hampered. I've told you once, that has a name, it's social sadism with people over 50. You have abandoned them now and you have abandoned them always, throughout the legislature. In 2016, 30% less will be devoted to active employment policies than in 2011. In addition, a large part of these resources are not to encourage employment, but to improve precarious contracts and to finance private placement companies by reducing the transfer to the autonomous communities. You in these 2016 budgets further reduce dependency benefits. They are reduced by 20 per cent compared to 2011, while there are 470,000 people who have legally recognized their right to dependency benefits and who do not receive them due to lack of resources. And you say these are social budgets. These budgets are not only anti-social, they are doubly anti-social, because to the extent that they are centralizing and asphyxiating the autonomous communities and local administrations, which are responsible for social spending, they are causing a real attack on the social state. You are very concerned about the equality of the Spaniards. On the other hand, they have had no problem in forcing a reduction in health spending, forcing autonomous communities to do so, causing double waiting lists and generating two-speed health: those who are subject to waiting lists, who often put their lives and health at risk, and those who can pay for health care. Unfortunately, they're not the only ones. This policy is shared, for example, with the Catalan Government and its Health Advisor, dedicated in body and soul to privatizing public health and encouraging private health. This is the case in many respects. You are intervening to the fullest extent and politically disposing of the municipalities, with a shameful violation of local autonomy. You would do well to hear what Don Pere Macias has said, which is true. What you have done has been to intervene politically in the autonomous communities. They have done so to the point that you allow yourself the luxury of going out here and, as if taxes were your property, say: and we have paid, and we have saved... No, no. They've done it with citizens' taxes. But if you allow yourself the luxury of doing that it is because you have ended up being the real Economic Advisor of the Catalan Government. What's the problem? That Mr Macias has forgotten, in an attack of amnesia, that you can do that thanks to the Law on Budgetary Stability that they voted, in the same way that when you complain about the precariousness of wages you forget that this is caused by the labor reform that they also voted. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, what the government saves on unemployment, pensions, dependency, health and social services is spending it on rescuing banks or compensating electricity companies while penalizing renewable energies and self-consumption or healing ruinous investments in highways or airports made only to the greatest glory of the capitalism of friends and their partners, the local chiefs, who are largely chiefs of the People's Party. You come here today by handing out pins and pins, saying that you can now allow recovery and compensate some citizens for the evil their policies have done. On the other hand, it forgets those over 50, it forgets the long-term unemployed, it forgets the employment of young people and it forgets the dependents. At least Mr Rajoy, Mr Montoro, stop lying, stop deceiving citizens, although I recognize that this request is somewhat naive, because asking the People's Party government to stop lying and cheating is like asking a scorpion to stop inoculating poison. It goes in its nature. That's how they won the previous elections, that's how they started this legislature, that's how they're going to finish it and that's how they're going to win the next ones. I hope you don't get it this time. I hope this time the deception and the lie pass you bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my countryman Baltasar Gracián wrote that it is as difficult to tell the truth as to hide it. And the truth is that today we are witnessing the end of a government that lacks all social legitimacy, which, harassed by its unfortunate trajectory, Minister, wants, in its last drafts, to kick forward and leave everything tied and well tied, hypothecating the future of the country's next government. Moreover, all this is done at a propaganda blow, because what you have done today from here this morning and throughout the afternoon debate can be called in a way other than propaganda. It has much more propaganda than politics and, although the former do so much better than the latter, the fact is, Minister, that its intervention has been proper to a sad actor, incapable, lacking credibility and making the most insubstantial entremés credible. Mr Montoro, I will ask you a very specific question. What welfare and progress are we all talking about and what social budgets are we talking about, when only in Aragon does your recovery, the one you are talking about, mean that only one in four people who are unemployed receive any kind of subsidy? You've left 80,000 people at the stake. In Aragon, there are 13,420 households in which no euro enters, Mr Montoro, and more than 31,700 in which all its members are unemployed. That is their economic recovery and those are their social budgets. What job creation are you talking about, Mr Montoro? I want you to explain here what job creation you're talking about. The job, they have already told you, is being dismantled, is being torn apart. In Aragon alone, since the crisis broke out, part-time work has increased by 21% and full-time work has fallen by 18%. This is the balance sheet of your policies. This is the reality that you are building, not the one that wants to sell us here. This is the reality, the institutionalization of precariousness, injustice, and all this at the stroke of propaganda and fear, Minister. That is what your Government has done. And since you've done balance, we're going to do ours too. These budgets represent an insult and no trembling to the territories, to the autonomous communities, violating, as in the case of Aragon, their status of autonomy. I want to ask you another question, Minister. Why have you not addressed the Autonomous Communities to see what their investment needs were? Why didn't you? It has been crowned, Mr Montoro, as the finance minister of the most harmful legislature, in this case for Aragon, that it is going to pay with zero investments executed, despite the fact that it is more than twenty years that carry twenty projects recorded, and in these budgets again. The same applies to improving funding. They are four years blank for fundamental works, for projects such as that of Canfranc or that of the Cantabrian-Mediterranean Corridor, for the unfoldings, for the rescue to the highways, for the improvement of the territories of the Spanish interior, as Teruel, harassed by the depopulation, for the improvement of the environmental plan of the Ebro or for the sustainable management of the avenues or decontaminate the waters of the river Gallego. We could go on, but there's no time, Mr. Montoro. The balance of his management only casts non-compliance and contempt for Aragon. For the Left of Aragon, these general budgets of the State, which it has not yet presented, are only a kick forward, a pitiful and worn-out copy of the budgets of previous years. These budgets, as I say, attest to this: non-compliance, contempt and none. Minister, we do not erase four years of attack on democracy with a false recovery of design. They have endeavoured to paint the present and future of our country in grey, to immerse it in a medieval perpetual present, but it will go wrong. You will pay for having made certain Antonio Escohotado's quote that says: The truth defends itself, the lie needs a government. They will pay for it because soon the citizens will take them out of those seats. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u52	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, employment data. The indefinite contract is predominant among wage-earners. 75 %, three out of four employees, have an indefinite employment contract, according to the EPA in the second quarter of 2015. This percentage was one point less in December 2011 and 69 % in the fourth quarter of 2007. We've gone from 69 to 75. In addition, this percentage is significantly lower, depending on the territory of Spain that we are observing. The reverse of this data is the temporal rate. There are also significant differences between autonomous communities in this regard. Since the beginning of the job recovery, in the first quarter of 2014 350,400 employees' jobs with an indefinite contract have been recovered; 350,400 workers with a new indefinite contract have been recovered. This is 42.1% of the new job created. In five quarters, almost one third, 31.7 per cent, of the indefinite employment lost during the six years of crisis, which was 1,187,000, has been recovered. In Spain as a whole in the last year - not the natural one, but the one corresponding to the last data - 513,500 jobs were created. Part-time employment has declined in the past year by 26,000 people, with full-time employment growing by 539,000. There is a decrease of 26,000, so full-time employment has grown further. The partiality rate was 15.8%, compared to an average of 22.1% in the euro area. Since the first quarter of 2014, 843,900 full-time jobs have been created - they have not been distributed - which accounts for 92% of the jobs created. 47% of new jobs in the private sector are indefinite. 94% of job creation is in the private sector, i.e. not in the public sector. Over the past year, 197,000 indefinite jobs were created in the private sector. The number of workers with very short-term jobs is lower than at the end of 2011. In the second quarter of 2015, only 3% of the employed had jobs of less than three months and only 1% had jobs of less than one month's duration. In 2007, the percentage of workers hired for less than three months was above the current level, by 4%, the same as at the end of 2011. Wages do not grow much, but workers gain purchasing power because there is no inflation. That's how far we've come, we agree. Therefore, we cannot compare the evolution of wages in an inflation context with a new context like that we are living in Spain, in which there is no inflation. By the way, the government does not set wages, it sets collective bargaining. Collective bargaining has not disappeared in Spain, it has approached the reality of companies. That is the labour reform that we have been pushing since the beginning of this legislature. It is not the disappearance of collective bargaining, I don't know where such an expression comes from, it is the approach of collective bargaining to the reality of the enterprise. Well, maybe all this data you care about what you care about, why we're going to turn it around more! You, The Plural Left, the left that I have already called on other times the traditional left, the radical left, is because the system fails, Mr. Garzón, the capitalist system sinks into the marshes of the crisis; the world financial system breaks down because the exploiters really humiliate the humble classes of the whole world, of the global world. Well, no sir, no sir, it's not like that. Life is like this, what are we going to do to it!, this does not happen. There are problems in China but today the markets in Spain are better, the Spanish Treasury has placed, as I said before, three months at negative interest rates. There's trust. See what it'll be like for the creditors, those evils of the world, to leave us the money. Hey, they pay us to take their money, see what they look like! These creditors are really terrible people. You are what you call creditors, and of course you are creditors: you are people's pension funds. Or what do you think, that they are the patrimony of four rich people in the world? No, it's the savings of the world's people: the investment funds, the pension funds of the people who save all over the world, the workers all over the world. That's the capital that flows through those funds, those are the ones you call creditors. But how do you think capital is formed in the world? You're in Marx. The other day, Mr. Garzón handed the president of the government a book by Keynes. Keynes! Keynes inspires the Spanish radical left? I don't think so, I was missing! You have not passed the Communist Manifesto, Mr. Garzón. That is his language, the language of this left which is in what is, in exploitative capitalism, in the financial vampire, in what is this terrible globalization that cuts wages, when it is exactly the opposite: never has humanity taken a step forward in the fight against poverty - against absolute poverty, not against relative poverty - as in the last fifty years. Never. By the way, Spain has also done so, as I said this morning. [[Rumors.-Mr Coscubala Conesa signs the speaker]] I am a member of that generation and in my childhood we were with that $2,000 per capita. [[Several Members: $2,000?-Rumores.-Laughter]] Yeah, $2,000. You refuse this from the statistics, lest you clarify any ideas. Look, if I give you any idea through this of economic science, statistics, what economic globalization processes mean, what Europe means, what global financial markets mean, what creditors mean! [[The Lord]] On the other hand, I did not know well what you say, rightly - with your reason, let's go - that you are looking forward to me leaving. I was missing more! They're in your right, of course. But I am concerned that there is a government in Spain that is supported by that radical left. Yes, I am deeply concerned, and I have already said so this afternoon. Of course, I am concerned about Spanish; not as a member of the Government of Spain, I am concerned about Spanish. What are you going to do with a debt like that that exists in our country? Aren't you going to pay her? What are you going to do? In Greece people like you have come to convince the population that they should not pay. Of course, nobody likes to pay the debts, there was more to it, like taxes, do we like to pay the taxes? No, sir, we don't like to pay taxes, but we understand that it's the price of living in a civilized society, because we need those public services, because we're a middle class society. Do you know what the middle class is? The middle class is made up of all those people who with their work support their activity, their family, that's the middle class. The middle class is the one that works, as you said well, we are the ones who have worked a lifetime. I am an Andalusian who have worked 14 hours a day all my life, but all my life, which is already long in terms of work. That is the framework of the middle classes, which also use public services. There is no middle class who is not using any kind of public service, who is taking their children to public education, who is using public hospitals at some point in their lives if it is not on a regular basis, who is using that public service or who conforms as a public service worker. That is the middle class, which is also made up of those millions of pensioners who have full rights because they have generated that right. It's a social contract, a transfer between generations what we're doing. What problem do we have so that this transfer between generations of income is guaranteed through taxes? We will have to have the best taxes to effectively dispose of the most competitive companies, which you called high added value. How are these more competitive companies of high added value achieved? Don't these budgets have R & D policy? They do have R & D policies, and they have something very important in addition to direct R & D policy: they have the deduction in corporate tax. The only deduction maintained in the years 2015 and 2016 in the new corporate tax is precisely on R & D & i expenditure by companies. Is that okay with you or is it not okay with you? That will make them pay less on corporate tax because they will be investing in innovation, they will be investing in research and development, but they will pay less. Then do not tell me that what they really do is evade taxes; no, it is that there are many ways to stimulate economic activity and productive activity. Is that in these budgets that have been studied so thoroughly yes or no? Do you think it is right that we should lower corporate tax, that we should lower it especially through those funds, which are doing so that companies are recapitalised so that they do not depend so much on bank loans, not even on capital markets, but on their own resources? Is that okay with you or is it wrong with you? It's you that there's economic recovery... By the way, which can be measured, are we growing or are we not growing? It's just that this is fantastic. You go up to tell me at this point: but where is that recovery? This is great, really, it doesn't have another rating. We are the fastest growing country in the European Union, three times more than the big countries in the euro area, and you say that is not true. Mr Coscubiela says: where is that recovery? But how is it not going to be? It's in people, it's done by people, you're reading it in economic indicators. Who are they consuming? The rich? Is it only the rich who consume it? It's all about the rich, it's all about the rich. Here are four rich people to look at what they consume. I said this morning that VAT collection for small and medium-sized self-employed enterprises increased from January to July 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 by 11.5%. Is that all they're rich selling and paying VAT? This is the truth of this left. The truth of this left and that which is out there will be seen in the governments with which you have come to be in coalition with the Socialist Party. We'll see you in action. They are now contained, to understand us, because there will be general elections and they do not want to move too much. What they do already see what it means, where they go, but they don't want to move too much. They're reluctant, it won't be that you see who they are, but you don't have to, Mr. Garzón, if it's in your speech. You are a young person, educated in economic terms and have the language of progress in the early 1960s. He talks exactly the same, he doesn't separate a millimeter from them. We were the ones who were there, and that's why I say it: it doesn't separate an inch from them. It says the same thing: the banks, the electrics... Some of the textbooks of the sixties need to be read. Do you remember the economic powers in Spain? I'm not going to quote the author now because we really don't need it, we all have it in our heads. They are really the same, which do not recognize that the values they defend are not compatible with those of political freedom. They are not compatible with that freedom because they drown their own political freedom. These values are not compatible with Spain changing its model to a higher value-added economy. It's not true, it's the opposite. You do not have the operational capacity to have confidence and thus generate new investments, because what you are asking, Mr Garzón, is already happening in Spain. It's already happening. Job creation is taking place in all economic sectors. Or is there no job creation in industry? Are you against employment in construction? Not me, of course not, at all. That is why I tell you that you are against a government that with its policy is promoting an economic recovery that in 2012 seemed impossible to you and many to you, but it is possible, as it was in the 1990s. You say that in the 1990s the real estate bubble was generated. What's he saying? In the 1990s, the real estate construction sector began to contribute to economic growth. It was from the year 2000, when people had more money. People like living in a better house. Look at what people are like! He likes and, if he can, buys a second property on the coast or on the mountain. How people are! For that is their well-being, having a home, behind which there are a lot of people working, but a lot, in jobs that we have to value, to recognize. But what is this about the radical left of this country talking about that really in construction you can't create jobs, as you just did? Jobs are being created in all economic sectors, Mr Garzón. Jobs are being created in industry, in all our country's economic activities, and it is very good that that happens. That is why we also want to ensure public employment in public services in these budgets, so that the current level of staffing in the essential services of the State does not fall. That is the difference with those who will not admit that there is economic recovery, because their political adversary is not the People's Party, it is economic recovery.What delegitimate them is economic recovery and job creation. [[An honourable Member: Take it now!]] That is what really distorts his approach, it is true, as it is proving when that radical left rules. Or didn't the Greek government know what was going to happen in Greece with a corralite? Didn't you know? But you insist, in Spain there has been a rescue - I have already explained it before with dates -, but do you want to tell me if we have made a rescue with the banks - a bank rescue - and therefore we have made a complete rescue from Spain through the banks, why if we make that rescue in June, everyone in and out of Spain continues to ask for a rescue in Spain? Why, if we'd already done it? Do you want to explain this to me? I've already asked Mr. Sánchez before, who's already gone to meet better waiters, see if he sees a microphone open around there. [[Rumors]] Gentlemen, what rescue? What is the rescue of Spain? Everyone was asking for that ransom. Is it true or not, Mr Garzón, that there has not been such a rescue with this government? You say no, but man, don't take the argument away from me. I've already taken it from him, because I'm putting it in time. If what you call the rescue of Spain from the banking sector occurred in June, why did everyone - I insist - then ask for the rescue in September, in October, in November? Why did the most important media in Spain ask for rescue as the only solution? Why, if you really thought it had already been done? That rescue had not been made, it has nothing to do with what are the rescues we are seeing from other countries, which are actually rescued, needy or which, in the case of Greece, are suffering the consequences of a corralite. When the bank is being cleaned up and it is being made with public money, it is, of course, being guaranteed to depositors. Imagine what would have been a deposit crisis in our country, as is happening in Greece, where they have to restrict the free movement of capital by preventing the owner of a given deposit from withdrawing money from the bank. That is what they have come to in Greece, in a member country of the euro. That is what a left has come to who did not know what this was about the banks or what this could be done in another way, they believed that this from Europe would understand it in another way. That's the left you represent. Of course the left that you represent has risks, we will explain it to the Spaniards in view of these general elections; of course they have risks. You are not a modern left, a left that will really bring progress through trust; you are - as I have already called you in recent years in all these debates - the radical left. The problem is not that you go to the roots, the problem is that with you the roots do not grow, the roots of trust do not grow, the roots of the economy do not grow, the consumption does not grow, the investment does not grow. Thus there can be no job creation. This is the problem, it needs to be updated intellectually. We are in the twenty-first century, and those movements, which may have their reason for being at a time of great social conflict, as they do in a country that has lost millions of jobs, make no sense in a country that is creating hundreds of thousands of jobs a year. That is what is happening, Mr Garzón, and that is what we should be serving all the political groups in this House. But its language and its approaches do not go anywhere, they do not represent any alternative and certainly reflect the indignation of a part of society, but that indignation must be able to channel it, because by itself it will not incorporate that added value that society needs so that we can renew our productive system, as we are managing to do at high speed in Spain. AENA is a public company, where 51% of the capital is state. Or not? [[Mr. Sixto Iglesias: More or less]] If 51 per cent is in the state, we have dominion in that capital. Therefore, that comparison you have made with Greece has no basic element. Privatization is not to guarantee a return on business for the State. What companies have to do, be electric, be banks or whatever, is to facilitate the best conditions for the economy in which they are operating. That is what they have to do, and that is what public policies and regulatory policies are responsible for, beyond corporate ownership. By the way, the one you are asking for, that very important energy company, Red Eléctrica Española, is that which has also recently been passed by the two vice presidents of the socialist government, who were there, one in the matrix, Enel, in another example of the revolutionary door from which the Socialist Group is so repentant and so complex, and Mrs Salgado, who first did so when she left the government, went to a subsidiary of this multinational in Chile, apart from another subsidiary of La Caixa. It wasn't just one, it was two, it wasn't going to be that we didn't have enough with one. These are the progressive governments of Spain, the governments consistent with their economic policies. I have no problem talking to you with company names and surnames, none. What I would like you to acknowledge - because you are easy-to-understand statistics - is that what we have done this year 2015 and projected in the General State Budgets is a reduction in income tax that favors proportionally more those who have less income. Or isn't it? Or do they not, in relation to what they paid in the income tax in 2011, lower incomes up to €30,000 on average by 12,5 % and up to €22,000 even fall by 20 % in cash tax rates? Is that right or not? We therefore continue to do a fair tax on our tax cuts and we continue to do a very intense fight against tax fraud. There had never been such an effective fight against tax fraud. Do you think it would be good for you to be in the Tax Agency to identify assets worth more than EUR 126 billion that were not in the year 2012? Is that right with The Plural Left or does it not seem to you a recognition of the effectiveness of the laws that have been passed in this legislature that makes our tax system more equitable? Effectiveness in the fight against fraud is also measured, not rhetorical. You come to tell me about figures that don't exist, according to Mr Coscubiela's language, you come to tell me about lies. [[Mr. Coscubiela Conesa: So big!]] I already said Machado: tell half the truths and they'll tell you to lie twice. Mr. Coscubiela, that's exactly what you do. The handling of statistics is not yours either. I hope that the ideas will be updated, lest time be spent on them. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. In the turn of the reply, Mr Garzón has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u54	Thank you, President. There are many issues, so it is difficult to deal with them in just four minutes. Mr. Montoro, you've forgotten that Aznar, your partner, was also in that company you were talking about, and I'm surprised you've forgotten because you, Rodrigo Rato and Aznar formed a trident who was also responsible for that real estate bubble that you were suggesting did not exist. Already in his moment he was wrong. You know that and you will remember it very well, Mr Montoro. He walked a ghost, the ghost of the Manifesto; you know: a ghost travels Europe. The truth is that it was said a long time ago - perhaps not so long ago - that when communism came, we would be robbed of houses and savings. Communism has not arrived and the homes and savings of many people have evaporated and have left at this moment in history, and they have done so by policies like theirs, policies that have facilitated evictions, policies that have facilitated not only the loss of wages but even the scams of the preferents. [[Applauds]] With the scams your government has not behaved in the same way as with the creditors, because, indeed, there are creditors, Mr Montoro, and it is true that you save the depositaries, but you also know that in economy there is a saying that if I owe you a thousand euros I have a problem and if I owe you a billion euros the problem you have. The German and French banks lent huge amounts of money during the real estate bubble to the construction companies and the real estate companies, which were eventually a failure, and those German and French financial companies have not received any penalty for lending badly, because you saved them. Because the so-called European rescues had only that goal, saving those financial institutions that were wrong, I insist, that were wrong. What is there, Mr Montoro, less liberal than saving those who have been wrong in a decision of that magnitude as it was to lend? You also ask us what we would do with the debt. It is surprising, because the debt is yours, which you have raised to one hundred percent of the gross domestic product, you, who say to yourselves liberals. [[Applauds]] For we would do an audit of the debt - you know it well - to pay all the debts corresponding to the financing of the social state. But if it turns out that it's a debt whose origin is simply a scam, as has been much of the financial bailout, then we understand that it shouldn't be done. You're also worried about the middle class. We have told you, Mr Montoro, that more than half of the population currently earns less than EUR 1,200 and that the majority earns little more than EUR 600. Are you referring to them as middle class? For it is for them that we are worrying, because their policies are the ones that impoverish them. One more thing, before it's over. We're worried about R & D, not just us. This Government has the luxury, in quotes, and the benefit of having agreed to the whole scientific community in what has been called the Charter for Science, for the disastrous and dramatic cuts in the world of science that this Government has produced. So it is not a question of a few Members of the Plural Left, but of the rest of the opposition groups and of the entire scientific community. That R & D is fundamental to moving towards a new productive model, as we have told you. Mr Montoro, you were wrong at the time, when you were also a minister, saying that there was no bubble; you even came to say at the time, when you were participating in Aznar's government together with Rat, that it was an invention of the opposition. You are going to be wrong again with these general budgets, you are going to be wrong again by resurrecting a model that cannot work, that is doomed to economic, political and social failure. That's what we told him. No one probably knows where you're going to be in the next legislature, but we, more than the elections, are worried about the next generations. If you had been worried about the exact same thing at the end of the 1990s, today we would not be debating the economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ozores, excuse me, Mr Montoro, when the advisers prepare the data for the scheduled replica, please tell them to explain them well so that you do not make the ridiculous as today. His Minister of Employment presented himself to the labor reform saying that the goal was to reduce the temporality, and today the temporality is at almost the same rate as when you came to power. Secondly, you have promoted the part-time contract for an unfair distribution of employment: 4 more part-time contracts, with the aggravating factor being that it is used for the abusive prolongation of working hours, with overtime not being paid, in addition to the fact that part-time contracts are forced and mainly affect women. As for the indefinite contract, Mr Montoro, of every hundred contracts made per month, do you know how many are indefinite on a part-time basis? He doesn't know; I'm going to tell him, less than half. That is the reality, less than half are indefinite on a part-time basis, and that includes the indefinite for entrepreneurs, which are indefinitely temporary, because, thanks to their labour reform, the contract can be terminated during the first year because the worker is on probation. That's his model of job insecurity. As far as wages are concerned, it says: that is what collective bargaining sets. Yes, you have already taken care of the labour reform to lock down workers and trade unions, so that you cannot negotiate on equal terms in collective bargaining, as they have denounced. Finally, Mr Montoro, do not insist on the radical left. We are proud of being a radical left because radical means going to the root of problems and solutions. [[Applauds]] To go to the root of the problems is to understand that a country cannot have 38% of tax revenue and pretend to be a just country socially and economically efficient; 8% less income than the average of the European Union...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u57	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u58	...between 12 and 17% less income than the most advanced countries in Europe. With those tax resources that you are not willing to collect you could solve much of the problems and possibly even repay the debt. We're radical, yes. We want a sufficient, equitable and efficient tax system. What you have done is exactly the opposite. We are the radical left that this country needs. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u59	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I'll answer your honors. First of all, Mr Garzón, about the reference he has made, that saying in economics comes precisely from Keynes: if you owe the bank a million you owe it, the problem you have, but if you owe it 100 million the problem the bank has. That's clear. By the way, I love to see that this radical left is in Keynes' hands. [[Laughter]] This seems fascinating to me, let me at least intellectually attend to these things. When I saw him handing over to the President of the Government one of Keynes' manuals, it really seemed to me to be one of the most important political gestures we have experienced in this legislature: the radical left reads to Keynes, The Economic Consequences of Peace, what were the consequences of World War I, of World War II and the consequences according to all those great economic authors such as Keynes, Schumpeter and Hayek. [[Rumors]] Keynes's key work is the General Theory, which is published in 1936; the Hayek servitude path is 1944, the great service to freedom in the midst of World War II, and Capitalism, socialism and democracy, by Schumpeter. [[Rumors]] Have you not read Schumpeter, Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy? For it is indeed another work of those mistresses where the greatest loa appears to the capitalist system in that comparison with the possibilities and strength it has in terms of the system of renewal. It is also a book - I don't remember the date - of 1939 or 1940, when humanity was living the worst wars, the great depression and its consequences. Finally, it is the time of the great clash of economic systems between themselves and when many of these authors were not optimistic about what the future could be, and the role of the State is being defined. You said you really have no problem with that - you have already mentioned it in this rostrum, clearly - communism. He said the problem is that communism has not arrived in Spain. [[Rumors]] Okay. He's staying there, he's staying there. [[Laughter]] Indeed, it is better that it does not arrive; it is better that it does not come to define the basic laws governing democracy in Spain. I'm telling you, too, frankly, it's better if you don't get there. Their ideology is exponential - they insist - that they go to the roots. No, I've already told you. With their ideology, with their approaches, they are not capable of having roots; neither are the roots of true freedom, nor the roots of economic prosperity or social well-being. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] [[Applauds]] That has been so historically, and from there comes its update; from there come its integration into other political forces of the modern world. In Spain we have returned to a language that - I insist - is not of the modern world, but of the Cold War, which ended with the fall of the Berlin wall. The debt - said Mr Garzón - will be audited. That's a famous... But, well, what they're going to audit; what they're going to audit. [[Laughter]] I've already explained it to him. The debt is there, in the state budget. Can't we explain to people why we're using the debt? Is that possible? Really, it's just that I'm disappointed in trying to explain it. The debt comes from the public deficit, Mr. Garzón. You know? There is more expenditure than public revenue, and that must be financed; it comes from the commercial debt of other governments that did not pay public service bills. [[Rumors]] I repeat, they didn't pay the bills, I also explained it enough this afternoon. Is that the one you're not going to repay, the debt that's been issued because you weren't paying the utility bill? They're not giving it back. Then he said something else. What did he say? That it is possible that the debt destined for bank bail-out will not be repaid. I mean, aren't you going to return the debt to the MEDE? That's what the radical left said here this afternoon. I'm not going to highlight that. Here in Spain there is a political option that from this rostrum has said that it will not return the debt to the MEDE, to the European mechanism. That is Europe; that is Europe, Mr Garzón. [[Laughter]] Where are you guys at? Where do they really sit about it? [[Mrs. De las Heras Ladera utters words that are not perceived]] Then he said, in relation to the government's tax policy, when are we lowering taxes not improving wages? Don't you? [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] No, that's not, that's not; they don't improve wages by lowering taxes, like saying... It's really fantastic denial. You are not interested in the government of the People's Party lowering the income tax on natural persons, Mr Coscubiela; that is what you are not interested in, and that is what we are doing, showing that our policy is more equitable than what you are proposing. [[Rumors]] That's what we're really doing. [[Applauds]] Just read the data from the tax agency's memory to see how much income the Spaniards declare, read them, read them. [[Rumors]] The Spaniards are the middle class, they're those rents. The average income declared by the Spaniards is 24,000 euros, which is not much either and which needs to be improved; that is why we are enabling policies for economic recovery, job creation and income improvement. That's what we're doing. That's Spain, that's not statistics that are indifferent to people. It's the statistics of what the Spaniards earn, it's not the ones you handle. You paint a country that doesn't exist. They would be interested politically if it existed but did not exist. Spain is that country of large middle classes, and those are to which we have to refer and to which our policies are directed. They are the ones who, with their effort, their treasure, their sacrifice, make this country prosper; they are the ones who also make a more just country. If we have been able to be in this economic recovery it is because the mechanisms of social cohesion of public budgets have worked to the maximum. They have worked and avoided an excessive social tension that could have broken the social limbs, which is what has not happened fortunately in Spain. Since it hasn't happened, there's trust. Economic recovery is a reality, and we are dealing with our policies that more and more people are joining that economic recovery and that they are reaching more and more social strata, more and more strata of the Spanish population. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. In order to defend the whole amendment tabled by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister, Mr Montoro, I did remember Mr Montoro this morning that it was the fifth year, the fifth accounts, the fifth budget law he presented to the House. It is indeed the fifth time that this Member, this spokesman for the Progress Union and Democracy, has come to the rostrum at eight and a half o'clock in the evening to present the amendment to the whole of the State's general budgets without Minister Montoro having yet talked about budgets. The same has happened to me for the fifth consecutive year, Mr Montoro. Anyway, maybe you call me naive, but I always really hope that by the time I get involved you have fallen into the budgets. Today, despite the fact that you started talking at 12 in the morning, it has occurred to me again - it has occurred to us again - about previous years, that you have spoken of everything but budgets. He spoke of the soul, of the Berlin wall; he spoke - I know - of the left, of the right, of the past, of the future; he qualified parliamentary groups, he spoke of anything but public accounts. This morning you used your turn to make it clear that you had come here to talk about yours, about the PP, and that these were the budgets that the PP needs to start the electoral campaign. Throughout the afternoon he has done a similar thing, he has followed that same path. Well, no. This is a relevant debate because each from our perspective we are defending what we consider to be the best accounts for Spain, because it is an important and ordinary law, even if it is done at an extraordinary time, in August; but it is not a debate for the government group to initiate the election campaign or for the main opposition group to conduct the investiture debate. It is neither for one nor for the other, so I will try humbly to talk about the budgets as I think the debate on the budgets is to be faced, and in this case with the presentation of an amendment to the whole. There is a diagnosis, which we will make, of the situation and the accounts, of the real situation in Spain, and in the face of this diagnosis there will be a proposal. I explain all this because I may be somewhat surprised to change the dynamics that have existed so far. I have no intention of qualifying you, your party or your Government, nor of disqualifying you, let alone adjectivating you. Let us therefore look at the accounts of a budget which, from the point of view of the Progress Union and Democracy, does not serve to solve the problems that the Spanish people have, detailing some important issues in our view. Firstly, the vulnerability of public accounts, which we believe is at maximum levels. The state will need to finance EUR 137,000 million in 2016, 12% of our gross domestic product, and the European Commission expects a deficit of 3.5% by 2016, and not the 2.8% that you have insisted on putting forward; that is, that even in that of what you presume and which seems to justify everything, commitment of the deficit, the European Commission and the budgets that you have defended here today agree. Since the dependence on our economy - all I will give you is official data - on external financing is 97% of our gross domestic product, the vulnerability, Mr Montoro, is clear. Therefore, from an incorrect forecast, which does not take into account the vulnerability of our economy, propagandistic budgets are derived for you, for your Government and for the party that supports it and useless for the citizens. I care a lot more about second than first. If they were propagandistic but useful it would highlight that of propaganda, but in the end the important thing is that they are useless to solve the problems of the Spaniards. Secondly, and in relation to the first, the Spanish public debt has increased in the last three years, as has already been said, by 41 %. No European country has increased public debt in such a high proportion. What does that mean, Mr. Montoro? That we are transferring a very heavy burden to the next generations, that this is the great legacy of your party and your government from this legislature. Those who come after you to rent, there they are. Then, when you come behind and lay the blame on yourselves it will be on them, on those who have come behind, as during these four years you have spent blaming those who were before. You just said it a moment ago, in your last speech. Why this debt? Because they ruined the autonomous communities, the municipalities. Were you not ruling in most of the autonomous communities and the most important municipalities in Spain? Did you forget that? It was you and you, but it is that you ruled in the vast majority of the autonomous communities. Or have they only rescued non-PP governments? No, isn't it, Mr. Montoro? There was a debt, there were many defaults, there were many bills in the drawers, there was a debt contracted; yes, but you were protagonists of that debt. He who comes after him who rehearses and will have the blame, as were the previous ones; what a coincidence, they forget that you were there and were protagonists. Thirdly, food banks, speaking of the panorama of Spain, of real Spain, distributed 130% more food to disadvantaged people in 2015 than in 2014, when they cared for 1,650,000 people throughout Spain, and 9.3% more than in 2013. That recovery you're talking about doesn't reach all Spaniards alike, and you know it well. It doesn't reach all Spaniards alike. Let me ask you a question, Mr Montoro: Does it not seem to you that it is unheard of, entrepreneurship - in terms that there is no way of presenting it - and unjustifiable that with the amount of taxes that we Spanish people have to go to charity, to private solidarity so that so many people have to eat? You know there are a lot of people, middle classes, people who have been working up to nothing, who have been seen and forced to go to the homes, to the social dining rooms. Does it seem normal to you that in a country with the level of taxation of Spain, which is one of the most developed countries in Europe, which you say is growing more than anyone - then I will talk about it - there are millions of people who have to go to the social eateries and that these people increase year after year, also during these four years of the People's Party government legislature? Fourthly, the government, you, present as a savings 5,480 million in unemployment benefits; you do so in the yellow book and you have done so in making all the presentations. They present as savings 5,480 million in unemployment benefits. Mr. Montoro, it is people who exhaust their right to benefit and then run out of anything; that is the other part of the truth. There are about 3 million unemployed Spaniards who do not receive any income. The coverage rate has fallen from 70% in 2011 to 50% this year. The coverage rate in 2011 covered those who were without any type of benefit by 70%, now 16 points less. One might think, if one did not read the full accounts, that an important part of that money that you say you save is intended to complement active employment policies. No, of those 5,480 million that fall into unemployment, only 487 have gone to active employment policies. Fifthly, in the analysis of data from real Spain, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics, the number of deaths will for the first time exceed that of births in 2015. You'll wonder what this has to do with budgets, what we're to blame for that. This has a meaning, because it requires action. What does that mean? It means that our pyramid of population predicts serious problems for the sustainability of the public pension system, if it does not act in a more active and radical way by financing an important part - as our group has, of course - from the budgets, from pensions; not only non-contributory ones, but an important part of what pensions are, for example, of widowhood. You have made the announcement when presenting the budgets to the Commission, but it does not appear budgeted anywhere. It is therefore necessary to take a decision on this subject, unless, in fact, the collection of pensions starts to be a real risk in the very short term. Sixthly, within this characterization or, rather, within this explanation of the real accounts, there is public spending on education - several times what is spent on education has been cited there, what is invested in education -. The truth is that public spending on education has fallen by 10% over the past three years. In addition, in the last ten years, engineering, architecture and science students have fallen by around 25%. From 2009 to 2013, investment in education was reduced by €8.6 billion. You will tell me when we talk about these things that education is the responsibility of the autonomous communities, but, to put it all, the central government budget devoted to education policies has been reduced by 12% during the current parliamentary term compared to the 2011 level, and that despite the increase in these budgets by 9%. They rise by 9% but in spite of everything has been reduced by 12% compared to the 2011 budget. Mr Montoro, gentlemen of the Government and gentlemen of the People's Party, tell me that I have no reason to believe that they do not want our country. What future has a country that does not invest in education? What future does a country have in which the classrooms of the most innovation-related branches are emptied? The future is that of a country that languishes. That is the Spain you want, that is the Spain you seek, that of a country that languishes, because if you do not invest in education you have no future. As is often said - it is a great truth - the gross domestic product tells us what we are now, what we invest in education tells us what we want to be tomorrow, what we want for future generations. This languishing Spain is what you want for future generations if you interpret the numbers you put in the budgets. Following the data, according to the ministry, total expenditure on health fell between 2011 and 2013 by 9.3%. Current budgets increase health policy funds by 3.5%, although their budget is still 6 % lower than in 2011 and 13.5 % lower than in 2009. You present the budgets and say: the health budget has increased - the minister is there leaving kindly with the vice president and the minister of employment - by 3.5%. Yes, after having reduced it by 6% and 13% despite everything compared to 2009. Mr Montoro, the government presents these budgets, as I said before, as the first part of the electoral programme of the People's Party, boasting of growth, but they forget to tell the whole truth, as I have just shown. Spain now grows after falling into recession in 2011, 2012 and 2013, when the rest of Europe grew. It says: We grow more than the rest of the European countries. As they continued to grow, though little, we were falling to numbers that need not be repeated. That is a classic behavior, by the way, for Spain, you know it well: growing more in expansion cycles and falling even more than the average in negative cycles. You guys, this is a rebound, you want to sell it like it's a change of direction. You know well - if you do not know it should know - that good economic policy ensures stable and sustained growth, without major recessions or strong expansions, just the opposite of what these budgets draw, more so than in previous years. In the ninth place, to continue with data, you also boast that the consumption of families is growing - you have said it now in the reply several times, but also this morning you have spoken about it - by 3.5% in 2015 while in the eurozone it is growing by 2.1%. Of course, he forgets to say that when consumption contracted in the eurozone at 0.6 %, in Spain in 2013 it contracted at 2.3 %. You have to tell the whole truth because, if not, it's a lie. It grew more, yes, but it decreased a lot more. It's a cyclical behavior, as I said a moment ago. Being a fact contrasted by various sources that the wage pay - speaking of the same, of consumption - per person does not grow - are data of the Banco de España - and that the savings rate of the households is at historically very low levels, tell me, Mr Montoro, do the Spaniards consume or are the Spaniards consumed more? I believe that the Spanish are more consumed, and the data say so, both in comparison with ourselves and with those of European behaviour. Fifthly, public investment has been cut to less than half in the last five years, from 4.7% to 2.1% of gross domestic product. It's equivalent to about 25 billion a year. This is the real budget savings generated by your Government, and not the measures in the CORA report that you are assuming. This is the real cut and the real budget savings. It is good enough to talk about savings in spending, always referring to operating savings of ministries or bureaucracy - I say it in quotes because they write it -, when the real savings have occurred simply by radically cutting public investment - by the way, since you never give; when we tell you they tell us that yes, but you never give it. The last CORA report amounts to €21 billion in savings from administrations since 2012, which would be just over €6 billion annually. If we had merged municipalities and abolished provincial parliaments, we would have achieved savings of €22 billion per year. I say this because you point out: Make other proposals. So this is another proposal. Where do we get money to meet the deficit and have more resources? This is a proposal reiterated by our parliamentary group, but an alternative to what you have done and, therefore, to the accounts of this Government. In the area of employment, another issue which you have also assumed, we have not yet managed to recover what has been destroyed throughout this legislature. I mean well, during this whole legislature. We can compare EPA data. According to data from the 2011 EPA, there was a percentage of the unemployed of 20.89 and in the 2015 EPA of 22.37. So, what do you brag about? The two EPAs are from the last four years, not from when I was ruling I don't know who in the last legislature, the ancestor or the previous one. EPA versus EPA, we've gone from a 20 long to 22 long. The recovery of employment, since the minimums of 2014, has also been based, even if it is not like to recognize it, on a greater precariousness and on the development of part-time work. Undefined contracts represent an average of 8 per cent of the total contracts signed monthly since January 2014. Let's call things by your name, Mr Montoro: lower quality employment, more temporary, more precarious. It's the reality of Spain. You can answer me: I'd like to have... He'd like that. I don't have to think that he likes people to have precarious, low-quality, few-day jobs, but this is the reality. Is that what you call recovery? The Governor of the Banco de España calls it flexibility, and welcomes it. It's not flexibility or recovery, it's precarious, it's more poverty and it's more inequality, as I'll explain later. In the years of this government, 60% of the Social Security Reserve Fund for pensions has been consumed - you have been told and I will insist on it. At this rate - you know it well - the entire fund will have been exhausted in 2018. You say: It was necessary; it was that there was no money. There's been money for what you wanted there to be. There has been money to do some things, for example, to shield the political system that caused the crisis. This system that caused the crisis is what you have wanted to shield over these years, and also with this budget. While cutting essential social policies, they have allocated 183 billion euros to rescue the autonomous communities. This is a debate we always have. He says, "What do you want, what don't we pay?" No, let them put conditions, like the thirty-nine conditions that Europe put us with the rescue of the financial system. By the way, they rescued us, Mr. Montoro. I was saying it then, and I'm saying it now. There was rescue and, by the way, you celebrated it in 2013, when Europe said that Spain could no longer be rescued. So there was a ransom, and you celebrated your end. Yes, they have allocated 183 billion euros to rescue the autonomous communities. By the way, the most irresponsible, those who have met the least goals are those who have received the most money from this government you are part of, which is a perverse incentive. There has been money, there have been 108 billion, destined to save the savings boxes parasitized by politicians and trade unions, and brought to bankruptcy by them, without they have yet rolled heads. In addition, the Government is doing everything in its power, that Government of which you are a party, to make it difficult for justice to be done in judicial proceedings. While that happens, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which follows solidarity criteria, and which is for that, as you very well know, has been reduced from 1,354 million, which it had in 2009, to 432 million euros. Meanwhile, Navarra and the Basque Country maintain their privileged funding, which makes them have twice as much per capita budget as the rest of the autonomous communities. Privileges that the PP - this is a presumption on my part and, therefore, take it as such - I fear that it would extend to Catalonia if that were to ensure that separatist nationalism or the other would be appeased. These budgets, Mr Montoro, do not solve the problems of the Spanish people. The international agencies, who have warned of our vulnerability, as I said at the beginning, have told you, but you do not take note of what they say about it. According to the Commission's latest report, the events that prevent a worsening of forecasts are the fall in oil prices, the depreciation of the euro, the European Central Bank's public debt-purchase programme and the investment plan presented by the European Commission itself. None of this is due to his Government's policies. Is it true that this has happened or not? It is true, and it is true, that we are in this situation primarily because of what has happened in our environment and not because of the policies of his Government. Our future in the medium and long term is very difficult, and this mismanagement, yours, is what determines the lack of ambition and the courage to undertake the substantive reforms as they should be done. I wanted to give you some examples of the true face of Rajoy's Spain. There are 1,657,500 families with all their members unemployed. The inequality between citizens of different autonomous communities is brutal, with autonomous communities with rates of more than 30%. There are fewer jobs, 775,000 people less employed and 304,800 more unemployed than four years ago, as I have just told you, according to data from the EPA. Jobs lost since the beginning of the crisis, and still unrecovered, are around 2.8 million people. The unemployment rate in Spain is higher today, I told you, than when you arrived at the government. Unemployment only wins us Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Cyprus. No one has had to go through what you have done to the Spaniards, and they also pretend that we thank them for making us pass this calvary. Low wages are poverty in employment, not flexibility. 12% of employed Spaniards are in poverty. Poverty and social exclusion indicators have also not stopped growing in 2014. There are 13.7 million Spaniards living on less than 663 euros a month, at risk of poverty, according to European indicators. The population of Greece as a whole plus 1 million or the population of Portugal as a whole plus approximately 1 million live at risk of poverty in Spain. Are these figures as if to be able to boast? According to INE data, 30% of children under the age of 16 are also at risk of poverty, i.e. one in three children living in Spain at risk of poverty, and do you minimize this problem, as you did nothing in the debate with La Izquierda Plural? Does this look like a presumptuous thing to you? Comparing the latest social security affiliation data, it is noted that there are 322,164 members less than four years ago and practically the same as in November 2011, at the beginning of the legislature. The coverage of the unemployed is coming down alarmingly, as I said, because there are about 3 million unemployed who do not have coverage. In our party, Mr Montoro, you like more or less what we say, we believe that we can do another policy and that we can do another policy; that we must do another policy in order to make Spain a normal country within the European Union, with normal unemployment rates of 10% and not of 23%; a country with stable jobs, rather than a rotation of temporary jobs, a country with protection and training for the unemployed as they leave its terrible situation; a country that invests at the European average in education, health, social policies; a country that makes research a key element of its long-term policies. On all these issues we have had the opportunity, on a number of occasions, to make detailed proposals in the Congress of Deputies in the debates that we have had throughout the legislature; debates and proposals that have normally been matched by the negative vote of your group, but which our parliamentary group has been able to present and defend; proposals from putting the single indefinite contract into effect, to reforming the system of training courses or improving the active income of insertion and homogenizing the minimum income of insertion. You have rejected all our proposals, but we will insist on them. We have used this budget debate precisely for that, to make the diagnosis and to make a counter-proposal. It gives the impression - let me tell you this - that the Government has drawn up budgets for a country in which it already knows that it will not govern. This is the impression of my parliamentary group and mine when I listened to it and when I read it. It has also decided to deal with them in this urgent way, which robs Parliament of one of its most important tasks because we have not been able to do it right - you know -. We have been robbed of one of our most important tasks: to promote and control the action of the Government. All that to camouflage, before an election, the miseries of a legislature marked by the deceptions that leave Spain at a high cost in terms of social cohesion, inequality, unprotectiveness and precariousness. Everything, for that. Everything to camouflage as far as possible the miseries of the entire legislature. You have passed the entire legislature denying your responsibility, blaming others for what you were doing. The successes of a European and global context in which they have not had a major role are now being pointed out. And you still want, as I said, to thank them for what they're doing for the Spaniards. You have denied all responsibility for what has gone wrong, but the truth is another, Mr Montoro. The rescued autonomous communities were mostly of the People's Party, i.e. they were mostly governed by the People's Party. The European rescue - which existed - has gone to Bankia, the Bankia of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Plural Left or the United Left and the trade unions. He's gone there! And justice continues to be jammed and politicized as we read in the press cases of corruption, not only but also of his party. Of course, all these scandals do not pay you out of your pocket, as this morning's rally did not pay you out of your pocket, but we have paid all the Spaniards. Of course, you don't pay for all this, but we pay for all the Spaniards. They leave us, as I said, a public debt bill close to one hundred percent of our gross domestic product: greater than it was when it arrived; and that, since last year, the INE has revised the GDP calculations upwards to include activities such as drugs and prostitution. With these budgets, which are but the first delivery of your election program - I will not tire of saying it because it is the truth - you leave 9 million pensioners and 3 million public employees who will see their purchasing power for the fourth consecutive year. You leave public services getting worse due to the replacement rate, which does not reach 50%. You leave more than 5 million unemployed and almost half of them without any coverage or protection. You leave an expenditure on dependency policies that is kept at subhuman and unacceptable levels. Moreover, there is no impetus for a change in a productive model and, worse, the inequality between citizens - although you have denied it - who live in different autonomous communities and the difference between all Spaniards and Europe only increases. Just one thing, minister: the minimum wage in Spain is the fourth lowest in Spain. You said before that wages were agreed by the unions and agreed in collective bargaining. Yes, but the minimum wage is set by the government and that marks the negotiation as you very well know. All right, because the minimum wage in Spain is the fourth lowest in Europe, only Greece, Portugal and Poland have it lower than the Spanish; but we have the honor - in quotes - of being the country whose minimum wage is the lowest percentage of the average monthly income. Here we have the honor of being the first: in the lowest percentage of the average monthly income with 35,5 %. We're the only ones who're below 40%. These budgets had no other purpose than to try to solve their problems, those of their party, the electoral problems of their party. They are failed budgets of a failed government. Regressive budgets of a retrograde government. futile budgets of a government that confuses the interests of its party with the rights of all Spanish citizens. As I said, there is another policy possible and another way to make policy that is necessary. Without the thorough reform of the public administrations that our party and our group have been defending, the merger of the municipalities, the abolition of the parliaments, the elimination of the economic and social councils, the Court of Auditors, the advisory councils, the defenders of the people, the embassies,... without all that reform it is impossible: There is no way to square the accounts, to make social policies; not even to make a policy that takes the country out of the social and economic crisis that haunts our country. Not even, Mr Montoro, at the cost of reducing essential expenditure on education, health, social policy, research and infrastructure. Without the fight against tax fraud - this is another - and a real tax reform that redistributes the burden from the income of work and to those who today legally evade taxes, taking advantage of the holes of the tax system, there is no way to achieve a necessary public income for much to be massacred to the middle classes and to the working classes. Once again, Mr Montoro, gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the People's Party, we tell you not to count on Union Progress and Democracy to carry out accounts that are in themselves an insult to intelligence and a mockery to the people who have suffered the most and who continue to endure the spurs of this triple crisis. That is why, because we would find it unpatriotic to support budgets that are negative for the citizens, for all the Spaniards, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety and we therefore call for the return of the accounts to the Government. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Díez, you, as you well conclude, and your UPyD political group will not support these budgets because you have never supported them. You have not supported this government, and you will never recognize what the Spanish government can do in a positive way. I summarize it that way; if you want I can tell you otherwise, I can try, but it's more clear not. You've been denying everything since the beginning of the legislature, everything, everything except the existence of the crisis. He says: I'm going to talk about budgets and he's talked about a painting of an idyllic world. Listen, I also work so that in Spain there is no one in unemployment, I also work so that in Spain there is more equity and more social equality, I also work so that there is no social marginalization and there is no risk of poverty, of course I work for that. Or what is the Government of Spain dedicated to? You are an opposition group and you cannot come here to give me a recital of what we lack in Spain, because we already know that, Mrs Díez. But are we getting out or are we not getting out of the economic crisis? According to you, according to UPyD, we're not dating; that's your language. There is this government's budgetary policy when we had the state's fiscal crisis. We have been government since the end of 2011 and this is democracy: alternations in government. I have already insisted and explained on other occasions in the House that in Spain bipartisanism is that there is a socialist government that ruins Spain and at that time a government of the People's Party has to come to put things in order. [[Applauds]] That's the summary of bipartisanship, or hasn't it always happened? Isn't this what happened in Spain? [[Rumors]] [[A Member: I wasn't there.]] I wasn't clear there. [[Laughter]] Of course, as I have been there I can summarize it that way, because I have also been in the two governments of the People's Party, and we had a crisis ahead, Mrs Díez. In the crisis of the 1990s - because there was a crisis in the 1990s - let us see what country we were: a country with a per capita income, as I said to you, of 13,400 euros in 1995, with an unemployment rate of 25%, and that which the socialists have governed since 1982. They did so so well that in 1995 there was a 25% unemployment rate and a per capita income of 13,400 euros, which means - I say because I was a Member of Parliament for Seville - that Seville's per capita income in 1995 would be about 8,500 euros, to understand us, and the average for Spain was 13,400 euros. The president of the government then was natural from Seville - I say this because I am a deputy for Seville -, Mr González ruled Spain and left Spain out of the European integration project in the single currency because we did not meet any requirements. We grew up on the outside sector through devaluations and did not create jobs. This is the story, and that's measured. Just like the Plural Left. That is, we as a government - they say - leave the country in debt. That's not true. You don't read the external debt figures, if I've counted them this morning; if you don't read them, at least hear the explanations I've been giving all day, at least try to listen to them. This morning I did, as you say, a political act. Man, of course, every time I go up to the rostrum, because I don't know what is done in this rostrum apart from a political act. It was just missing! If you want me to give you an economic theory, this is not the place; we stay somewhere else and of course I explain to you the fundamentals of my economic thinking, but the truth is that I don't think you come to the case much less. I am a minister, a deputy and we are talking about politics. His argument is: with this budget we have already done the electoral programme. Well, how soon can your lordship sum it up? With this budget we are following, as I explained this morning, the economic policy that is taking us out of the crisis. Are there more jobs now than at the beginning of 2014? Yes or no, Mrs. Díez? No, no, Compare me to the end of the previous legislature, but both you and I distinguish when an economy is falling and destroying jobs and when economic activity is rising and creating jobs. Or don't we distinguish him? Don't we distinguish him? Apparently not. I do not presume anything; I am working in the Government for Spain to go well in terms of growth, income, activity and especially employment; and I work in a budget, which is what I bring here, with a very strong social character. Or aren't these the budget figures? Your Honor says that the situation with regard to pensions is very serious and I say no, that there is no reason to worry. Firstly, the deficit in the system as a whole amounts to 1 % of gross domestic product and, in this sense, will remain at the closure clearly below, i.e. it is not something that Spain cannot clearly allow. Secondly, the state is behind and that proposal is also incorporated in these budgets, which we continue to advance in alternative sources of financing to social contributions. Does UPyD agree with that? Because according to UPyD, they have brought so many approaches to the House... but when we have brought important laws they have not been and we have not found them in any budget law. Mrs Díez, the political problem - political - is that UPyD has not participated in the fundamental elements of Spain's economic recovery, because the speech you have made is that there is no recovery. That there is a European recovery and there is no differential recovery from Spain. But how can you say that if Spain is going to grow by 3.3% this year and the big countries in the euro area are just going to grow by 1%? How can you say that? How does this argument stand? The European Central Bank is doing well. Like all the organisations and institutions, the more Europe we have, we will have a better and more effective European Central Bank, but it is doing well in the face of this crisis, obviously contributing to countries doing what we have to do at home, our duties, and assuming our responsibilities. But is the policy of the European Central Bank not the same for the whole euro area? Why does Spain grow three times as much as those big countries in the euro area? Because the Spaniards are like that, UPyD will answer. The Spaniards are like that and, ultimately, something will happen. However, I want to tell you that the economic recovery of Spain and economic change - I explained this morning, Mrs Díez, in this political speech equivalent to a rally, which is what you said -, that the quarterly growth of the Spanish economy begins to be positive in the second half of 2013. So the devaluation of the euro had taken place? Had the price of oil fallen or had the European Central Bank's debt-purchase programme begun? We had done important things at home, but recognizing that at home important things are done is like asking you to have something really extraordinary. You don't recognize anything, Mrs. Díez; you have the whole legislature giving the same drum, hitting the same drum. Everyone there, of course, would miss more, has all the criterion and political freedom to give the drum that you understand that it is important, but you have disagreed with the economic recovery of the Spaniards, and that is what UPyD has to answer to, what that withdrawal of responsibility has been. We are not assuming - I insist for the umpteenth time today - that we have reached any goal; we are missing a lot, but the issue is not that, we are missing a lot in terms of job recovery; of course we are missing a lot in terms of achieving more social cohesion and more equality. The question is whether these budgets, which have that social character, whether those budgets that continue to insist on the financing of our autonomous communities with those funding mechanisms that you have fiercely criticized since UPyD, if with these terms: you are rescuing the autonomies, you are rescuing the local corporations. We are rescuing the public services of the citizens, because it is also the mission of the Government of Spain. We are not doing anything extraordinary about the capabilities and responsibilities that the Spanish Constitution attributes to us, but you, UPyD, are a party in your form, in your way and with a leader whose specialty is not the economy; to understand us, Mrs. Díez, this is not your strong one, you handle the just one, and you have read a document in which you have not criticized any budget figures. He says we haven't talked about budgets. I'm going to do the rehearsal, I'm going to take the 'Diary of Sessions' and I'm going to tell you what figure you've criticized for budgets. [[Rumors]] What, the figure used by the budgets in Spain's social spending? If you haven't mentioned it. [[Mrs. Díez González makes positive gestures]] Do you think the evolution of tax collection for next year is credible, yes or no? Because, of course, we need more collection for the state. There it grows 6% on the budget and 4% on the expected tax settlement of 2015-2016. You think that's credible or you don't think that's credible? Think about the sources of that collection. But you do not think, you come here, you read a paper - because you have read a paper - that has nothing to do with what we are talking about this afternoon, regarding the economic evolution of Spain. You are again another political group that seems to be politically delegitimizing you is that there is economic recovery in Spain. Mrs Díez, you give the impression that it is bad for you that there is economic recovery. Since you hadn't anticipated her... I'll tell you the reason, because you don't believe in the Spanish. You don't believe in the ability of the Spaniards. You do not believe in the capacity of initiative that the middle classes of Spain have. You, who are also new in this political profession, in the 1990s were where you were, with socialism that. [[Rumors]] That one did. It was there and it's very legitimate, but it's another personality in this rostrum that presents itself as new. Everyone's new here. He says he's new because he founded a game. No, you're not new, as I've told you many times, you've participated in governments with Basque nationalists, and now, when you've created UPyD, the Foral Finance seems a horror to you, it seems a shock to you. Spain's autonomy with outland haciendas seems incredible and fascinating. There you are with your personal consistency. From there it must be said that you were also a member for a long time, legitimately, of that Socialist Party which ruined Spain with its policies. [[Rumors]] Or isn't it? Is it not measured in terms of unemployment, inequality, disaffection with the European project, the creation of the single currency? Don't you measure it? Yeah, it's measured. The Maastricht criteria were met in the 1990s with you in the government, because you were a member of the Socialist Group at the time. You became one of the lists to the European Parliament by the Socialist project. And you're really a socialist who decided to change her life, which I think is very good, but we already know that one is stuck to his own story. The history of this new political group in this House, in this legislature - not in this exercise, in this end - has been to disagree with the economic recovery capacities of Spain. That was it. That is why you have not supported any budget and denied the largest: Spain has nothing different, it has nothing different about economic growth, when you know - and you have been working for a long time in the European Parliament - that from outside what we are now being asked is what we have done in Spain to be living in a situation that is getting better and more and more full of hope to contribute to the European project itself since its stability. That's what they ask us from the outside, and that's what I'm sure will come to you in your relationships from the outside. But if you have understood that this political act is a farewell from this government, the truth is that it is quite the opposite. I have to tell you that it is exactly the opposite, it is the continuity of economic policy that is taking us out of the crisis against forecasting, which opens up a path of illusion, hope and confidence that we will get Spain to have the employment quotas that it came to have at the time. From there with the policies of the welfare state, which are the ones that we have preserved in this legislature, which are the ones that we have made prevalent in this legislature, there are the data on what public funding has been applied, data that UPyD has fiercely criticized during this legislature, confusing it. In terms of the banking sector, it is true - how is it not going to be? - that Spain has had a very severe banking crisis, but let us not confuse things. It's good to use that kind of topic. The banking crisis in Spain was not because we had politicians over much of the banking sector. The banking crisis has a root, it has a very different complexity. I do not admit that your honor says that we are not cooperating with justice, as we are doing, in all the cases of responsibilities that may arise from the banking crisis and any other case of illegality in Spain. We will not boast of anything, nor will we hold political rallies. He says I haven't talked about budgets. I don't know what your honor understands by budget. For me, the state budget is the one that defines the priority policies of a government, which in this legislature has been called a government of a social nature, a priority of a social nature precisely in order to maintain that social cohesion which is one of the fundamental elements that is taking us out of the crisis, and which is what the new state budgets project for 2016. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u66	Thank you, President. Minister, it must be a matter of time. I know you don't talk to me in that tone because I'm a woman or it's simply because you don't have arguments for what you're talking about; you talk to me like that because you are, so I'm not going to give it back to you, but I'm going to talk about Spain, the budgets and the alternative again. [[Several Members: No! No! No!]] You said democracy is alternation. No, no, The alternation is typical of countries where there is no quality democracy, because in democracy what there is is alternative, not alternation - now it's up to me and then it's up to you. The alternative means alternative policies. Our parliamentary group has always proposed alternative policies, and has always felt that it should. You tell us: we have not coincided. We have proposed alternatives, and that is not giving up. To give up is what you have done, you have enough votes and you have given up and resigned, and you have left the Spaniards in the crisis. You ask me whether or not we are getting out of the crisis. That is not the issue, because we are discussing budgets and whether they are the recipe that the Spanish need. But if you want me to answer that question, listen. If you think we're getting out of the crisis, why do you spend 7.3% less on social spending in your budget than in 2011. Out of cruelty? Are we emerging from the crisis and are there 7.3% less social spending than in 2012? What, then, is it that you want to annoy the Spaniards? If we are emerging from the crisis, why are there 3 million Spaniards who do not receive any kind of unemployment aid? For screwing them up? If I were one of the $3 million, I'd come to protest in front of your ministry tomorrow. We are emerging from the crisis and everything is going great, but, listen, there are 3 million Spaniards who do not receive any unemployment benefit, and we also spend 7.3% less on social spending than in 2011. Man, please! Why do they do it? For pissing people off? Out of cruelty? [[Rumors]] The question is not whether we are getting out of the crisis, but whether we are getting out of the crisis in the best way, in a sustainable way, in a fair way for all Spaniards. That's the question, and that's why there's an alternative. That is why we are submitting an amendment as a whole. It is not just to get out of the crisis in any way, but to get out well, to build an alternative and to get out in the most just and equal way for all Spaniards. That is politics and that is the alternative, and not the alternation, Mr Montoso: now it's my turn and then it's your turn. That is why our group has always tabled an amendment in its entirety. That was our input. We are the opposition, yes sir, and that is our task and for that the Spaniards pay us the salary, to do it in the best possible way. In Spain social protection, Minister, depends on where you live, on the part of Spain in which you live, on the autonomous community in which you live. What the MOU obliges Greece, a certified minimum sustainable income, in Spain does not exist. Don't tell me I'm talking about anything that doesn't have to do with budgets. Budgets should be to correct these inequalities, and they are not. Do you know what the minimum income of the Autonomous Communities is, what the Autonomous Communities put, in addition to what the State puts in the Preparation Plan and in the RAI? Do you know what the situation between autonomous communities is at present? The most expensive one, the most paying minimum income is the Basque Country: 24 months, 663 euros. And the less the Valencian Community: thirty-six months, 285 euros. To correct these inequalities is what the Interterritorial Fund would have to work for, what budgets have to work for, so that there is equality between Spaniards, apart from the autonomous community in which they live. That's what our alternative is talking about, that's an alternative: talking about those issues. That is an alternative. What is the income gap between autonomous communities? The average GDP in Spain, which you have talked about so much, is 22,780 euros of income per capita; in Andalusia 16,000 long, and in Madrid 31,000. To avoid these inequalities it is for what the General Budgets of the State and the State must work for. What is the difference in total per capita expenditure on essential public services - health more education more social protection - between autonomous communities? It reaches 60%, in Asturias 8,531 euros per inhabitant and in Andalusia 5,600. The difference in per capita expenditure on education is 55%, in the Basque Country 1.224 and in Andalusia 959. To avoid these inequalities is what the State and its budgets have to work for.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u67	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u68	Yes, I'm done, President. That is the alternative, Minister, to correct these inequalities, to correct this injustice, and that is done with budgets, with budgets that do not resign themselves to misery, that do not resign themselves to inequality and that do not resign themselves to poverty. Yes, this parliamentary group does not give up, it has an alternative and presents it. We do not resign ourselves to being an alternation, nor do we resign ourselves to applauding you, whether you presume or not; it would be, Mr Montoro, very unpatriotic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Díez, I could have said the same thing without giving a voice. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It's just that when we talk about ways... They're going to pass you the video so you can see that you were eating the microphones materially. That's why I was telling you that if it's about keeping the shapes, be it man or woman, don't give yourself voices, talk normal. Or can't we talk normal in this House? If there is already a system that moves our voice. By the way, mine is not to give many voices; it will give more or less arguments, but voices, none, Your Honor. I didn't give you a voice, that's all I needed! What I have done has been to disqualify your approach. You really confuse things, and what you've done to me right now is a mess again. Look, Mrs Díez, the difference between the financing of public services between Spaniards is defined by the current system of autonomous financing, which are not the General State Budgets for 2016. That difference cannot be corrected in these budgets, Your Honor. Do you understand or don't you understand? [[Mrs. Díez González makes affirmative gestures]] He accepts it. So don't bring me an amendment to these budgets that just changes the entire autonomous financing system in Spain, including the out-of-pocket farms. That's what UPyD does: fantastic, it has a truly creative and innovative capacity in terms of contributing to the General State Budgets for 2016. That's not the point, Your Honor. Obviously these budgets accept the system of autonomous financing, which in its day was a law passed in this House, because, someone approved that, didn't they? Didn't Mr. Sanchez approve of it either? Wasn't he? [[Rumors]] I would swear that Mr Sánchez was voting for this system of autonomous financing which now seems to everyone to be an atrocity, among others to the socialist governments of the autonomous communities. But someone will be the father of the creature, someone will have voted in his day and would know what he was voting for. But this is not the issue, Mrs Díez, this cannot be done with the General Budgets of the State for 2016. You've got the wrong argument. In relation to the disparity in per capita income, that is another argument in which obviously budgets can be active, but cannot resolve it. It is a problem of economic growth, and if the State Treasury is able to promote economic growth to what it is obliged to do, it is to shorten the differences in income levels that arise from economic growth. That's what budgets do. That's what budgets bring. And that is what the budgets, which obviously also have to give up, do, and therefore they are budgets which, by having that marked social character, cannot use any more resources in other types of investment. But look what is happening with this economic recovery and its territorial distribution. They are really growing autonomous communities which, too, by having a more important agri-food sector base, are leading this economic recovery. They do not have that much industrial base and they do not even have that much service base, but they do have a really high capacity in the agri-food sector, and that is what we have to promote from the general state budgets and even from the European budgets, which is the meaning of the ERDF at the time and of the new funds that go to the development and structural development that must aim to cut distances. But, Your Honor, we will recognize that we are growing, that we are beginning to grow, that these income differences are certainly the fruit of our history. They are fruit - before I mentioned it myself - also in terms of what is the per capita income of Spain in the different territories of Spain, when I mentioned the per capita income of Spain in 1995 and the differences when I said that in Seville it was not 13,400 euros - the average of Spain - but that it could be in that year around 8,500 euros. Of course we're recognizing that difference, Mrs. Díez! And that is what we need to remedy in a country that aspires to equal opportunities among the Spaniards. An outstanding task. An important task; but a task that can only be addressed within an economic growth framework, because as long as there is no such economic growth, what are we planning to equalize? Poverty? Is that what we're pretending to equal? It's the opposite. We must awaken this economic growth, the general budgets of the state bring that economic growth and that job creation, and to say these things, Mrs Díez, we must not speak. We must use arguments and do so, let us say, with rigour. To really approach the great arguments that are of interest to the Spaniards. With these budgets, the Government projects a horizon of economic growth for Spain, and it is interesting that this is really the case, that the facts consolidate the hope and illusion that these budgets arouse, and that we can have in a forthcoming legislature a government management, the one that comes out of the ballot box, that it actually makes a budgetary policy to confirm this recovery, and we can say, at the end of the next legislature, that Spain is in practical full employment in the vast majority of its territories. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-25-CD150825.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended. It was nine thirty-five minutes of the night.
