ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u1	The meeting was called to order. Proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an organic reform of the Criminal Code. For the defence of the initiative, Mr Such has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now put forward the proposal for an organic law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to amend the Criminal Code. This proposal aims to address something very necessary that generates social alarm such as corruption in political parties and in public activity. I am convinced that from the People's Group's bench they will say that this issue was addressed in the recent reform of the Criminal Code, but in this regard we must say that this reform clearly lacks the political and real will to address this issue with the necessary strength and consensus required. Ladies and gentlemen, they have adopted a reform of the Criminal Code in which they have deliberately confused social needs. They have increased the penalties of common crimes in a disproportionate way when there is no need or social alarm to justify it, even if there is no relevant report from the prosecution or statistics to justify that need, nor is common crime perceived as one of the pressing problems of our society. On the other hand, however, in the matter in which they should have relied on a radical amendment of the law to combat the crime covered by the political parties, in this matter, ladies and gentlemen, they do not express any interest or will in this matter. That's why we have to ask ourselves why. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is it because there is not enough social alarm to attack political corruption? In my parliamentary group we are convinced that yes, that there is such an alarm, only the daily news that the various media convey to us and above all the frantic judicial activity in the field of political corruption must be seen. Without going any further, we have recently learned of Judge Ruz's decision that a B-box exists for eighteen years in the People's Party, eighteen years of black funding for activities, campaigns, bonuses, works at headquarters, etc. There is no means of communication that does not highlight this news with great relevance and has been covered in all the digital newspapers. El Mundo: Ruz is credited with the existence of box B of the PP and closes the investigation of the papers of Bárcenas. La Vanguardia: Ruz is credited with the existence of a B box in the People's Party. The Newspaper: Judge Ruz believes that the PP had an accounting B. The Country: Ruz closes the cause on the papers of Barcenas and credits the B box of the People's Party. ABC: Ruz closes the investigation of the papers of Barcenas and believes the B box accredited in the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have and what has been echoed by all the media. In addition, we were able to see in the various TV sets a senior leader of the PP and head of the Gürtel plot how he preached to the four winds the payment to the leaders of the PP of envelopes in black, without any reaction on the part of the alleged affected or beneficiaries. Ladies and gentlemen, the papers from Bárcenas have given much of themselves. It has become clear that not everything was a lie, except a few things, but that it was an organized plot and that it did not hang on to the citizens the attempt to make believe that every treasurer of the People's Party had a B box in his house and that it was used in an unselfish and generous way by paying works and bonuses. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must ask ourselves a lot of questions. Political corruption is one of the issues that appears to be of concern to citizens in the repeated CIS surveys. This is the second most worrying element in the latest CIS survey by citizens, behind unemployment. Therefore, why is it that the PP has outstripped this situation by looking elsewhere? You should answer this question and, if you do not answer this question, we can answer it from the Socialist Party. Clearly, the one who organizes the corrupt plot will never fight it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the reform of the Criminal Code to combat corruption and especially the illegal financing of political parties, because, despite its recent adoption, this reform does not give sufficient and complete answers, as we have already made clear in its handling, to the problems arising from the illegal financing of political parties and the serious damage that these conducts entail to the credibility of the system and to the confidence of citizens in it. However, if the reforms fail to respond, there is only one person responsible and that is the majority group in this House, the People's Party, which, with the abuse of its absolute majority, has prevented further reforms, and that is because it does not want or profoundly modify a system that has allowed it to deal with electoral processes with a great advantage, not only illegal but also unfair, over the rest of the parties and does not want to assume any responsibility as a result of the errors and infringements that their actions bring to light. The proposals we have in our bill are as follows. First, the incorporation in the Criminal Code of the offence of illegal financing of political parties, which must be used to punish both the financier and the financier and to ensure the return of amounts unduly received. This aspect has been incorporated into the reform of the People's Party, although with less penalty and not including some conduct that is in the proposal. While it has finally been agreed to sanction some of the conduct relating to the financing of political parties, it is clear that anyone who receives or gives illegal donations to political parties will not be punished by imprisonment, but only by a fine. In order for the illegal donation to be imprisoned, it has to be more than 500,000 euros, or 100,000 euros if the donor is a foreigner. If the list of Barcenas is reviewed, no one has made donations in excess of 500,000 euros. This gives a regrettable message: those who illegally donate more than 50,000 euros - authorized maximums - each donating less than 500,000, even if they are in B, know that they are not at risk of imprisonment if they are discovered. Another important element is that the text adopted to penalize the illegal financing of political parties is that it does not include penalties such as special disqualification for employment or public office, profession or occupation, or even the prohibition of hiring with public administrations, which makes the punishment of donors virtually unreasonable. Therefore, the proposal we are making in this area involves punishing those who make illegal donations of more than 50,000 euros with prison sentences and increasing the maximum penalty to six years, and therefore the limitation period for the offence of illegal financing of political parties from five to ten years. Another aspect that we consider relevant is that of punishing those who intervene later by concealing, altering or disusing the body, the effects or instruments of the crime to prevent its discovery or by helping those responsible to evade the investigation of the authority or its agents, by destroying, for example, hard disks of computers. This type of obstructive action that should be penalized is scandalous. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you have become accustomed to destroying the evidence, to destroying hard drives, but I also have to tell you that recently, just fifteen days ago, we saw in a newspaper of the Valencian Community a conversation recorded by the UDEF to high officials of the People's Party, to a director general talking to his head of the area, and saying things like this: see to leave things clean, as clean as possible. The head of the area was answering: I'm in the office, I'm going to break up, file and take things with me. [[Mr Campos Arteseros: How strong!-Applause]] He also said: the Cies file takes it and you bring it here and the Haiti file too. And this one said: please, that is the last service; close that and get away. These are the clear evidence of what is being done recently in the administration led by the People's Party, and it is the destruction and obstruction so that the crimes can be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, we also propose in this initiative the criminalization of unjust and unlawful enrichment to punish the capital increase that cannot be justified by authorities and public offices during the period of their mandate, I repeat, when the cause of this increase cannot be justified. This aspect has not been incorporated into the reform of the People's Party and we in the Socialist Group believe that the political leaders must be fully transparent, must have glass pockets and must be able to justify the capital increases that may occur during the mandate given by the citizens and, if not, must be punished. Finally, I would like to highlight the reform of the tax crime to put at 50,000 euros - by the way, the PP raised it to 120,000 in 2003 - the threshold of the amount of fraud that constitutes the tax crime. Today we have been able to see the tax offences that can now be attributed to this great Minister of the Economy, Mr Rato, who will have to report to the justice of this kind of proceedings as well. [[Applauds]] We therefore call for the repeal and return to the previous tax reform regime of 2012, which included tax regularization as a negative element of the type rather than, as it had been until then, a simple cause of exemption from liability. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the proposals we put forward in the amendment of the Criminal Code, proposals that abound in achieving a society that rejects and rejects corruption. However, from my group we have little hope - except surprises, which I do not believe - that the People's Party will accept these proposals, and I say this after knowing the 140 leaflets of Judge Ruz's car, in which he establishes proven the existence of an organized plot within the People's Party to defraud all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, how can Mr Rajoy's government demand that citizens pay taxes and contribute to the maintenance of public services if the People's Party itself creates a plot to defraud all Spanish taxes? How can that be? They have even had to pay bail to deal with the responsibility for possible crimes committed. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can state with complete clarity that the People's Party is on bail; on bail. [[Applauds]] I am Valencian and, unfortunately, in my land we live the most intense episodes of corruption in all of Spain. The public arks have been looted during the last twenty years of the People's Party's administration; barely fifteen days ago the Terra Mítica case began to be tried, after more than ten years of instruction; we have the cases Gürtel, Blasco, Noos, Ibex, Brugal, the visit of the pope, Fatur, Emarsa, Fabra, Valmor, Rabasa, Trasgos and a long etc., all of them related to political corruption in my land and with different leaders of the Valencian People's Party, not with anyone, but with the highest leaders, some of them at this time in prison and others who will soon enter. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as you are very likely to respond to your problems of corruption with respect to the others, I have to say with complete certainty that if Judge Alaya's legal and procedural philosophy were to apply in the Valencian Community there would be no member of the Valencian Government in the last twenty years that was not prosecuted, none would remain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, combating political corruption requires an attitude towards it, requires commitment and courage to put an end to this scourge that directly attacks the heart of democracy. You can't end corruption by connivance, looking away and closing your eyes. When you have that attitude of connivance, it is corruption that destroys all of us. Nor can corruption be combated through the forgiveness of sins, as the Minister of Justice predicted last weekend, but with the fight, persecution and punishment of the corrupt. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group calls on the House to support the consideration of this proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, because attacking corruption must be a commitment of all and we must always give ourselves a new opportunity to improve the law, which has certainly been cut short in the fight against the scourge of corruption. Now we have the opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Such. Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the BNG's point of view, the fact that we are currently discussing a proposal for a law by the Socialist Group relating to a number of aspects relating to the corruption of political parties, and in particular to the illegal financing of political parties, means that just eight days ago policies aimed at combating corruption were inadequately closed. I say this because when both the reform of the Penal Code and the other two laws that were finally passed last Thursday were introduced from the Government, it became the great panacea, as the strong and great response of the Government to act against the political corruption that exists in the Spanish State and that is generating so much unrest in the citizenry. We have already said at the time that the laws adopted not only did not serve to respond to that situation, but that to eliminate corruption from politics was necessary more than laws; political behaviour of the parties was necessary. In the specific case of the People's Party - because it is necessary to continue to insist that it is the party that is severely affected by corruption as a result of the various open cases and, fundamentally, those relating to the illegal financing of the party - it would be necessary to respond to the citizen's unrest with a political stance condemning those who are acting corruptly; a response that should, above all, explicitly entail resignations and political resignations of those who are responsible for these attitudes or political actions being carried out. Therefore, with the exception that in our group, the BNG, we understand that not only are legislative amendments necessary to put an end to corruption, and we insist on the need for political parties not to accept corrupt attitudes or corrupt attitudes in their ranks, and although we understand that increasing penalties is not the panacea to reduce or eliminate crimes, we announce our vote in favour of the bill presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We do understand that it is not simply a matter of increasing penalties, but of making a number of considerations that are appropriate from our point of view, given the current situation of corruption. The increase in the time limits for prescribing the infringement, which is now set, seems to us opportune, because we are seeing that many matters and persons responsible for these matters are going away because according to the law the matters are prescribed. We also believe that the new chapter 15 of Title III is appropriate insofar as a number of new considerations are made with regard to the offences of persons who are represented in political parties - not only legal, but also administrative - so that they cannot escape due to the lack of criminal recognition of their responsibilities in situations such as those described here this afternoon. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour. However, after the adoption of the laws I mentioned earlier without the majority group, the People's Parliamentary Group, accepting amendments similar to those envisaged in this bill, we are afraid that the same group will vote negatively on the proposal. Once again the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group in this case, is going to demonstrate its lack of interest in effectively combating corruption and establishing mechanisms for political action and functioning that make it impossible, or at least difficult, all the corruption that is being carried out by undesirable people in the political world. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u6	I'll speak from the seat, Mr. President. Actually this is a small dèjá vu. We have recently been discussing the Criminal Code and, among other things, it was clearly relevant to the subject we are dealing with at the moment; but I cannot deny the right of the proposing group to present this proposal once again and, despite the fact that this issue has been settled by the unilateral majority of the People's Parliamentary Group, today it is again subject to discussion. I have already announced that my parliamentary group will vote in favour of this because, as we have already stated in our amendments, we are not satisfied with the way in which this type of crime has been set out in the Criminal Code. Even so, we have to stick to the wording of this proposal. In any case, I insist, this is a consideration and would therefore be open to amendments if approved. For example, we absolutely agree that the limitation period for such offences should be extended - foreclosure, misappropriation, misappropriation of public funds, as referred to in Article 131 - but we believe that even the elongation proposed by the Socialist Group is insufficient. There have indeed been too many cases in which we have seen that a trial could not be carried out because of a delay, and I think that we should get closer rather than what is proposed; I think that in the statute of limitations of the upper part of the penalty for the offence we should go on long terms, for example by twenty years. I know that they are more appropriate to civil terminology and usucapion in Spanish law, but given the problem of the subject, this is our proposal. The truth is that we do not find a clear definition of the crime or the phenomenon of irregular financing of the parties, because according to the reading of article 304 bis et seq. it seems to be a subspecies; it starts from the fact that there is a falsification of a public document, but we believe that the article should begin with a clearer definition of illegality, of irregularity, of what is the concrete dolo, not just stick to this subspecies. Nor is that definition touched on in article 304 ter, much less, and we believe that responsibility should be extended in the quater, not only to limit it, as the proposal does to legal representatives or managers in fact and party law, but that the subjective responsibility for this crime may also lie with other party or affiliate positions. The proposal that is being made seems rather restrictive and we believe that the number of subjects should be extended or left open. On the other hand, it seems appropriate to us that the proposal is being made - at the same time as we are proposing it in our amendments - to reduce the amount to be considered defrauding the State, foral, autonomous or local public finances by reducing it in this case to 50,000 euros, compared to 120,000 of the ordinary tax offence. In short, we believe that he suffers from a certain lack of definition of what crime is. We believe that some specific regulation should be different, but we would not be opposed to discussing this issue again. It is therefore not our group that is trying to prevent it and will have our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, as the Basque Group spokesman said right now, this is a matter that we have discussed very recently, when we reformed the Criminal Code, but the demonstration that it was not settled is that that Criminal Code deserved the approval of a minimum part of the House - majority in numerical terms, but it had a great consensus against, if I may say so. It was a penal code tailored to the people's group, it did not involve the votes or the support of the rest of the House. In today's area, which has to do with the regeneration of democracy and the fight against corruption, too, it has been reproached by the vast majority of parliamentarians, of course by this parliamentary group. We know that with the reform of the Penal Code in this area, in the partial matter which the Socialist Group is reviewing today with this proposal for a law, progress has been made - we said it in the procedure, we said it in the Commission and we also said it in the plenary - but in our view insufficient progress has been made. That is why, in the opinion of this group, it has the whole logic that the Socialist Group reopens the issue, if I may say so, and insists on the need to review some of the issues that were incompletely resolved in the reform of the Criminal Code. For my group, Union Progreso and Democracy, this is not a debate to raise the issue from the perspective of what Judge Ruz says or from the perspective of what Judge Alaya says. This is not a question of throwing the stuff at our heads, one and the other or the other. This issue is, in the view of the Progressive Union and Democracy, an outstanding subject of democracy. The criminal charge against political parties and political leaders must be reviewed, and it must be reviewed in the Criminal Code. I know that the Criminal Code does not solve everything, that the reform of the Criminal Code does not solve all the problems that have to do with the need to regenerate democracy and the need to have more democratic institutions, more solvent institutions, more at the service of citizens, but there is a criminal complaint that must be incorporated, which has not been incorporated into the last reform and which is only partially incorporated into the reform proposed by the Socialist Group. In this proposal for a law, you make some progress on what has been your modern tradition in this area. In recent debates you have even voted against amendments by our parliamentary group, for example in relation to the criminal responsibility of political parties; you have voted against or abstained from some of the initiatives and reforms that we proposed in the last process and in the last reform, because it seemed to you that it was going too far; even in the proposal that you bring here at this time leave out the criminal responsibility of political parties: you are not criminally responsible. You identify those responsible, the natural persons, but do not hold the legal person responsible, the political parties; you leave them out. I think this is a huge mistake, because if political parties are ultimately not criminally responsible for what their members, leaders and leaders do, natural persons will have very little incentive to introduce some instruments that have to do with regeneration, but which have to do with prevention in particular. Prevention is the basis for correcting and preventing precisely cases of corruption and political corruption. In that sense, in our view, they are too short. This is an issue on which we will insist if this bill is taken into account. I recognize that there is progress on what you have raised in all previous debates, but it is, in the view of our parliamentary group, insufficient progress. In any case, today we are discussing a consideration here. I think it is a good attitude that we are aware that we have left things outside the reform of the Criminal Code, that the level of demand of citizens towards us, the political leaders, and our own towards our own democracy, in the sense of building a democracy of higher quality and institutions of higher quality, is above what each of us has done in the last reform of the Criminal Code or the positions that each of us has had in relation to this matter. It is true, we discussed it nothing ago, was said by the spokesman of the Basque Parliamentary Group, but it is also true that from our point of view we have resolved it in an unsatisfactory way. There is a social demand that we have not resolved, there is a demand for democratic regeneration that we have not resolved, there is a demand for criminal reproach on the part of parties and political leaders that we have not resolved in accordance with the law, and I think it is always a good time to resolve it. There will be those who say that we are doing it or some are doing it right now, who is presenting the parliamentary initiative, because we are at nothing of an election. Listen, if the need is pressing and, in this case, in our opinion it is, welcome be it, even at this time. What is important is what is on the table, and it would be very good if this reform were to be accepted and that with the consideration of this proposal on the table we could improve it among all. This is one of those moments when we should care little about who brings the initiative and yes its substance and the demand for it. I know that there are some people who believe that politics is the art of what is possible, but we, who are less pragmatic and more idealistic, think that politics is to make what is necessary possible, in this case to regenerate democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left has the floor Mr. Llamazares.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it was Machiavelli who said that reform has many enemies. First, the main enemies of reform are those who feel directly affected, but it is also their enemies who feel the uncertainty as to whether the reform will be carried out or not, with which their support normally tends to zero. This, moreover, is a matter - the one that has to do with the fight against corruption - especially delicate for the reforms and, given the tradition of our country, which is not the Puritan tradition, it is more the inquisitorial attitude that is given more frequently to respond to these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be able, on the one hand, to crush what is necessary among political forces, particularly in the face of the political forces that have the most successful cases of corruption, and at the same time to reach agreements on reform or on the reforms necessary to ensure that these cases do not occur again, at least on the basis of the survival instinct of political forces. This is a new stage of collective failure; we have collectively failed in this legislature not because we have launched ourselves invectives with regard to corruption, politically legitimate and reasonable from the responsibilities of cases such as the Gürtel case or the ERE case, but because we have been unable to seek and find common ground to reform what had to be reformed and avoided in the future cases of corruption as serious as those that our country is now experiencing. If we had done so, perhaps we would have gone differently from both the ethical and the democratic point of view. We have not; it is never too late, but I believe that this initiative is a failed new initiative. Because the reform of the Criminal Code was a failure. Look at you guys. When the sensitivity of the citizenry to corruption was greater, the governing group could not think of anything other than a reform of the Criminal Code to the peer-reviewed cry of permanent imprisonment. This is the case with the Criminal Code - the Criminal Code of permanent prison reviewable or punitive populism - when social sensitivity was different. The concern was not insecurity on the streets, it is not true; it was not necessary to launch a crusade through the law gag or through the Penal Code against which it protested; the sensitivity was to the crime of white neck, to corruption and to impunity for corruption. The Government, the party and the parliamentary group that support it did not address this issue clearly in the reform of the Criminal Code. It is true that some things have been done, at the initiative of the parliamentary groups, at the initiative of the Government itself within the Criminal Code, despite the fact that the Criminal Code is not the fundamental place for the fight against corruption, even though that is the last ratio for the fight against the already corrupt. The question is what measures have been taken by the Government to prevent corruption, what measures to limit cases of corruption, what measures to break the unity or collusion between political forces and business interests that are in the background of corruption. Very few, ladies and gentlemen, very few. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached this final stage of the legislature without the political forces and in particular the government - more responsible for scandalous cases of corruption - having assumed no political responsibility - we will continue to face up to the fact that we do not assume political responsibilities before court rulings - but the worst is that we have reached the end of the legislature without taking firm action against corruption. Only ad hoc measures; ad hoc measures in the Penal Code by the People's Parliamentary Group and now proposals for ad hoc measures in the Penal Code by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. If I had to put amendments to them - and I will put them to you because we intend to vote in favour of the consideration - I would ask you why they do not equate the donor and the recipient in the matter of corruption. I don't understand, I don't understand how recipients are solely responsible for corruption and donors, especially repeated donors to receive a fine or what we want to call it, turn out to be neither punished nor less punished than the recipient. Why, for example, is the fact that a political statement on accounts, which is clearly a political statement not in line with the outcome of those accounts, also not recognized as false? Why is lying in the accounts not a falsehood but a number of requirements are needed? Or why is responsibility not also assumed, as has already been said, collective responsibility of the party, subsidiary responsibility and also political responsibility? Why, when there is illegal funding, is the person responsible who went through there, the one most directly involved with the accounts, but it turns out that there is no political responsibility on the part of the secretary of organization, by the main political responsible for the finances and the organization of that political party? Those things could be in the reform of the Criminal Code, we will make them as amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying that the Criminal Code is not the issue. First, from the judicial point of view, the issue is justice and criminal proceedings. Almost nothing has been done, we continue to have a low-level justice and a very long - very long - criminal process, which, above all, allows this laxity to become impunity. For there we could have taken action by the parliamentary groups, the People's Parliamentary Group could have taken action, and it has not. With regard to the relationship between politics and justice, which is also a very important issue, in my opinion we should have addressed the independence of the judiciary and the autonomy, for example, of the prosecution, the UDEF or the Tax Agency, so as not to be ashamed of what is happening in the Noos case, in the Gürtel case or in the ERE case. That would also have been a timely initiative by the parliamentary groups and the Government, as well as by the political forces: to legislate incompatibilities and revolving doors, ladies and gentlemen. If we do not legislate that, we have done nothing because precisely compatibility and revolving door is in the background of much of these mechanisms of illegal financing and others that so much are denounced and why we so much tear our clothes. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, transparency and democratic control would also have to do a great deal. We've stayed at the beginning or halfway and we'll pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, we will pay it and it will be paid more by those who have the most responsibility for reform at the moment. He said that reforms don't please anyone. The vast majority of citizens do not like those who are going to benefit, they are uncertain about the reforms and they do not like those who are going to be directly affected. However, they are essential in this area of corruption. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Reforms would not be enough, nor would the invectives among political groups around our more or less firm position against corruption be enough if there was no humility. Humility is essential, regardless of how corruption has occurred in political forces and social organizations in our country. The humility on the part of the political forces that we are in this House recognizing that corruption is not a customary fact, but it is a fact that can occur. Humility on the part of the media too, aware of that nature of corruption. We believe that humility in this matter would be very important to escape, in the Anglo-Saxon tradition, from the Puritanism that we all know how it ended and in ours of the Inquisitors, who also know how they ended up burning the innocent in public squares. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. Mr Janè has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago these General Courts adopted a very extensive reform of the Criminal Code and today the Socialist Group is presenting a proposal for a law to amend the Criminal Code again. Today's debate alone means that there was no consensus on the approval we had in this House a few weeks ago. There was no consensus and we regret it. We regret the reform of the Criminal Code without what should be a great deal of agreement of the political forces on the major issues that are then translated into rules in the Criminal Code. Unfortunately, this was not the case. We have a penal code with a reviewable permanent prison sentence that neither has consensus nor conforms to what the Constitution provides for when it establishes the principle of social reintegration as a pyramid of our punitive system. This reform of the Criminal Code, which is already in the State Official Gazette and which will enter into force next July, was therefore a missed occasion. We are being partially reformed today. We are going to vote in favour of its adoption because there are aspects which are proposed today to coincide with amendments tabled by Convergence i Unió in the last parliamentary procedure and which did not receive the House's vote in favour. Therefore, logically, and if the procedure were to be reopened by means of a proposal for a law, we would like to take advantage of the opportunity to recover our contributions, some of which were in line with the Socialist Group's proposal today. I just want to remind you of two aspects. One is that we asked to add a new article, 439.bis, concerning the illicit enrichment of public authorities or public officials. If, during the term of office of an authority, of a public official, there is an unjustified wealth enrichment, this must have a criminal consequence. This was an amendment tabled by us which was finally not adopted. The other aspect is that, as Mr. Llamazares said - a diagnosis with which we agree - not everything is criminal law, nor is it all about reforming the Criminal Code. A fundamental aspect is the means of the administration of justice, the means of the judiciary. I would like to recall another amendment which, unfortunately, was not adopted and in which we proposed a new additional provision to increase human resources, the allocation of both the administration of justice and the judiciary itself in those aspects related to the fight against corruption. We understand that there is a positive and necessary need for more means, for instructions to be carried out with all the guarantees but with more time limits for further investigation. Therefore, we repeated that it was a missed occasion. However, we cannot fail to point out that some aspects of the latest reform of the Criminal Code were in the right line; not everything was negative. We would therefore be deceiving citizens as a whole if we now said that we have a Criminal Code that does not respond to issues of concern to citizens. The Socialist Group could not do this here today, which had legislative responsibilities in previous legislatures and which has already regulated certain criminal types that are there and that are being applied. Therefore, let us not give the impression that there is nothing in the Penal Code to combat these crimes against the public administration, against these crimes of political corruption, which already have a regulation in the current Code. With the reform adopted, there are some aspects that have been taken into account, such as the possibility of denial of parole in the event of failure to comply with the obligation to pay; the increase in disqualification for employment or public office; the addition of special disqualification for the exercise of the right of passive suffrage; the extension of limitation periods for certain offences committed by authority or public office; and criminal figures related to the illegal financing of political parties have also been introduced. Therefore, some progress has been made. Enough? No, no, We have been left with the outstanding subject of those types of crimes that we had proposed since Convergence i Unió and which unfortunately were not agreed upon, and above all we have been left with a lack of necessary means to bravely deal with cases of political corruption from the judicial point of view. It must be provided with more means to carry out more time-bound and useful instructions for society as a whole that what it requires are just answers and within the framework of legality. And precisely within the framework of legality to fight against certain cases, to be preventive - as some spokesman told us in his initial intervention - we need laws that strengthen democratic regeneration and transparency. In this regard, the Parliament of Catalonia has recently adopted a model law, Law 19/2014 of 29 December 2014 on transparency, access to public information and good governance. A law that is even more advanced than the one we have adopted in this House on transparency and good governance, which was very short. The law of the Parliament of Catalonia opens up more rights and above all opens up the right of citizens to know the public aspects of the administrations. Without a doubt, more transparency avoids cases of future corruption; it is the preventive line, not everything is solved by a coup d'état of the Criminal Code. And the recently adopted Penal Code, with such penalties so far removed from constitutional principles - such as permanent, reviewable imprisonment - that very punitive Penal Code is not a code comparable to those of the countries in our environment. Not everything is revulsed on the basis of more years of prison sentences, but we must necessarily incorporate preventive measures, democratic regeneration, transparency, and in that line there is also Convergence i Unió. We are voting in favour of this consideration, we would like to see it deepened in these new types of crime, and we believe that this initial diagnosis that could suggest that nothing has been done is not adjusted and would run counter to the trajectory of the group today proposing, which has previously had governmental responsibilities, and above all we believe that it is not adjusted to focus today's debate on a proposal for an organic law to reform the Criminal Code in specific cases that may be very current in the media but which do not necessarily form part of the articles and new offences that are proposed to be regulated by this proposal for a law. Therefore, yes to your consideration; not to your way of using it to talk about certain specific cases that have other channels. Urgent appeals may be raised and not necessarily as proposals for organic law. But, as I say, we are in favour of deepening that necessary fight against corruption and those new types of crime that have become short, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the People's Group, Mr Gómez de la Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Such, the truth is that listening to your speech as spokesman for the Socialist Group, I was led by a tremendous phrase from a French novelist who said: Everyone else is guilty except me. It has good offices that come up here with that mentality when they have ruled this country for twenty-two years without taking a single measure to fight corruption or to democratically regenerate the country. We, over seventy measures in three years; you, zero in twenty-two years of government. He is pleased that he has come to this rostrum with that mentality and speech when he has, as he says, half a Government in prison for corruption. It is fortunate that you have come up here with that speech when you are the only party condemned in a final judgment by the Supreme Court of Spain for illegal financing. [[Applauds]] It has good offices and it is scandalous that you have come to this rostrum with that speech when you have benefited from more than 40 million scandalous debt forgivenesss by the country's major private banks. Moreover, he has been very unlucky in this speech, just today, when a president of his party declared this morning in the Supreme Court as accused in an immense plot of corruption and when two or three days ago another president of his political party, Mr Griñán, declared for the same reason. Therefore, first of all, Mr Such, the rallies must be left for other places, not for this rostrum. Having said that, I would like to make three comments on the proposed organic law before this House. First consideration, it is a clearly out-of-date bill, that is, it is presented on September 10, 2013 and almost two years later, as if nothing had happened here, without varying a single coma, nor an accent, they present the same bill to the House, when since then, more than fifty measures of democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption have been adopted by this House and the Government. Secondly, the proposal does not cease to be a squid of amendments rejected by this House to the Socialist Group; that is, the technique of presenting amendments to various government initiatives, the House rejects them and almost two years later they record that in the form of squid of amendments, giving it the force of law with a regrettable legislative technique. Thirdly, if this is the reform of the Penal Code with which you intend to combat corruption in Spain, let us turn it off and let us go. The fight against corruption requires, ladies and gentlemen, a much more ambitious reform; it requires a comprehensive reform, a multidisciplinary reform, and in this sense I agree with Mr Llamazares: not everything is the Criminal Code, but also. Allow me at least in that sentence to agree with you. Why do I say that? Because the Government of the People's Party and my own parliamentary group have been presenting and approving in this House since 2012, despite their opposition, gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, a battery of reforms for democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption. First major step: Transparency Act. It is a law for the prevention of corruption, and you did not support us. Second measure: Act on the Statute of the High Commissioner. It is a law for the prevention of conflict of interest, for the prevention of incompatibility, for the prevention and detection of unjust enrichment, and you did not support us. Third step: The law on economic and financial control of political parties, with the express prohibition of debt forgiveness, lords of the Socialist Party, and you, of course - it could not be otherwise - did not support us; and the law on the financing of political parties: we have reformed it on various occasions, we have limited the subsidies of political parties by 40%, and you did not support us. We have reinforced the task of the Court of Auditors, they did not support us. We have reduced the electoral expenses of the parties by 20%, they did not support us. We have extended the limitation periods of any sanction for these reasons, they did not support us. We have brought the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act to put an end to the corruption-related macro-processes, setting deadlines for investigation; they did not support us. We have brought an integral reform - not four articles, not a squid; an integral reform - of the Criminal Code with the express definition of illegal financing of political parties, they did not support us; with the express and extensive regulation of the commission, they did not support us; with the regulation of the measures to force the corrupt to return the money, they did not support us; with the increase of penalties and time limits for the prescription of corruption-related offences, they did not support us. So up to seventy measures, three years of work; we have never had them at our side to adequately combat corruption. I now turn to the content of your proposal. What do you propose? Six things basically. First, in the explanatory statement - we are in the summer of 2013 - they propose transparency, but it is four months later that this government approved the first law on transparency of Spanish democracy; at least read your own explanatory statement and adapt it to the times. The second request they make in their bill, the final provision: that the Government undertake a reform of the Criminal Code to increase the penalties for corruption offences. That is exactly what this government has done, that is exactly what this House approved last January, which was later approved by the Senate and is awaiting ratification here. You have not supported the Government's proposal for a general increase in the penalties of special disqualification for offences of prevarication, coed, trafficking in influence, misappropriation, etc. Nor have they supported the additional penalty for the corrupt, not only of disqualification for the exercise of office, but also so that they can never again appear on the electoral lists; they have not supported us to that extent. You are asking for the limitation periods for corruption offences to be increased; read the reform already under way, because we have increased the limitation periods for corruption offences from ten to fifteen years. Finally, you ask - and it is surprising - for the criminalization of the illegal financing of political parties, when it was precisely the People's Parliamentary Group that incorporated this type of crime into the current Criminal Code and you have again rejected it and did not even want to support this measure that you are proposing today. On the other hand, you are asking for the introduction of penalties for legal representatives of political parties and I would like to make some considerations on this. First, where is the principle of guilt, that is, the principle of accountability of the perpetrator? Secondly, you have voted against the criminal responsibility of political parties. Thirdly, answer for yourself: With this amendment, where would Mr Almunia, Mr González, Mr Chaves or Mr Griñán have remained? Answer the question yourself. Your Honor, in your speech, you misrepresented Judge Ruz's car and I want to say a few things to you. First, it is a mere interlocutory judicial act, and if you do not know what this means, the judge himself says: It is an act of continuation, that is, it maintains the imputation of a number of people and disputes and provisionally dismisses others - by the way, among them, the most responsible of the Fr Ángel Acebes People's Party - and, therefore, it is not definitive and is open to appeal. Third, throughout the entire car, the judge uses expressions as an indication of the facts that must be verified or not by evidence. Finally, what Judge Ruz does is to apply article 124 of the Criminal Code, which literally says: Legal persons are also liable for offences or offences committed by their employees. This is exactly what Judge Ruz's ruling does, that is, there is subsidiary liability because there is no criminal liability and there is no civil liability in the first instance. That's exactly what Judge Ruz does, even if you try to fool public opinion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, less preaching and more giving wheat: seventy measures in three years against zero measures in twenty-two years of their governments, in the government of the State, in the governments of autonomous communities and in the governments of the municipalities. I assure you that with the seventy measures that this Government has put in place there will be much less corruption in Spain than there was after you left the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about - I agree with some intervention - one 'and you', it is not about competing and knowing which party has suffered the most damage and suffered the most from corruption-related events, but about who, when it comes to the responsibilities of the government, when it comes to the government of the nation, has done the most to combat it. On this subject, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I say this humbly, you do not even reach the sole of the shoe. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez de la Serna. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, an organization to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacity in the voluntary suspension of the workplace. [[File number 122/000195]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u16	Proposition of the law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, organic to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacity in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. To present the initiative, you have the word Ms Marta González.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for an organic law brought by the People's Parliamentary Group for its consideration today has to do with an extremely controversial issue, which caused great shock in Spanish society in 2010, when the Socialist Government of President Rodríguez Zapatero amended without the necessary consensus the legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy and introduced, through Organic Law 2/2010, the capacity of adolescents aged sixteen and seventeen, therefore, minors, to interrupt their pregnancy without the mandatory consent of their parents or guardians, an indispensable requirement given their status as minors. The will of the former President of the Government and his Minister Bibiana Aido, based on the report of an ad hoc committee of experts, that the children under the age of sixteen and seven could abort without the consent or knowledge of their parents - since this was the first version that entered this House as a draft law - was slightly modified through an amendment of the Basque Group, by highlighting the enormous social concern, very particularly that of the families, in the face of a fact at least unusual: that the adolescents resident in Spain could face a decision of such importance and relevance in their present and future, such as that of carrying out a pregnancy or not, without the advice, support and authorization of their parents, relatives or guardians. For this reason, this amendment was accepted, which introduced in article 13 the obligation that - I quote literally - one of the legal representatives - father, mother, person with parental authority - or guardians of women of those ages - their lordships in which these adolescent women are called - should be informed of the decision of the woman. However, in the initial objective, despite including in the text of the law that very limited participation of the father or mother in the pregnancy and subsequent decision on it of his adolescent daughter, a new condition was added that almost completely invalidated the effect of the previous precept. It was again allowed to dispense with information to parents or guardians when - and again to quote textually - the minor - and here it is minor - it claims that this will cause a serious conflict, manifested in the certain danger of domestic violence, threats, coercion, ill-treatment, or a situation of uprooting - note that in this case it is about minors, something certainly contradictory - and all this in a law that because of its ideological radicality and its content and even - I quote textually again - because of the innovative and imaginative character - in the words of the Fiscal Council - with which it interprets the supposed international obligations that in the field of health Spain, having ratified certain conventions, would have to assume, did not obtain the agreement, for example, of the General Council of the Judiciary, which did not draw up the mandatory report to the preliminary draft law because it was impossible to reach an agreement within it. [[Rumors]] In order to carry out this foolishness, the Socialist Government had to amend Law 41/2002 of 14 November, the basic regulation of patient autonomy and of rights and obligations in the field of clinical information and documentation. This law, proposed in its day by a People's Government and voted in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, laid down in its article 9.4 the conditions under which informed consent should be given, i.e. the need to have the consent of the patient for the performance of an action that affects his or her health. In its first version, it established the legal age for informed consent in sixteen years, but it established a series of exceptions, and I quote again textually: the voluntary termination of pregnancy, the practice of clinical trials and assisted human reproduction techniques. In these cases, the age of majority was required for consent, which was eighteen years. Why were these situations ejected in their day from the general rule of consent at the age of sixteen? Because they obviously require a different and specific ethical treatment, related to the consequences arising from its short- and long-term realization, which prevented them from accepting the general normal of other types of actions related to the health of a patient. An abortion, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be treated in the same way as a surgical operation. For this reason, the whole Spanish citizen considered the decision to allow minors to authorize an abortion without the opinion of their parents or guardians to be foolish. The socialist electorate itself believed that the Government had gone too far. [[Rumors]] Some authorized voices of the ruling party at the time expressed their disagreement with what was expected. It was not any representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, but Mr Alfonso Guerra, who had been Vice-President of the Government and who until very recently was the chairman of the Committee on Budgets of this House, who told the ABC newspaper that - I quote in text - the Praetorian guard of radical feminists who were not very brilliant around President Zapatero had taken him by band and led him to legalize the abortion of minors. He added that he himself had carried out a sort of survey among the members of his group and that there were very few who agreed with this decision. It was not any member of the People's Party, but the former president of the Junta de Extremadura, Juan Carlos Rodríguez Ibarra, who wondered why these minors could not vote and yes, instead, abort without parental consent, formulating the paradox in the following terms: If the adolescents of the electoral district of which the minister was a deputy cannot have legal capacity to decide between the electoral list of the minister and that of her political opponents, how does she explain that those who cannot vote can instead abort? He added - I follow textually - that it does not seem reasonable for the Minister of Equality to seek to eliminate parental responsibility. I don't think any father or mother understands that in this traumatic, painful and irreversible process, her daughter, her 16-year-old daughter, finds herself alone, even if a law protects her. They were not autonomous presidents or popular ministers, but José María Barreda and José Blanco, former president of Castilla-La Mancha and former minister of Fomento respectively, who spoke the clearest and most compelling phrases about the drift of the Government in this matter. I quote the first of those mentioned: I am a father and I do not understand that, if my daughter were in that situation, she would not communicate with her mother and with me. I quote the second mentioned: I would not like my daughter to be in the circumstance of having to interrupt her pregnancy and not consult with me. It was not finally a president of the Congress of the People's Party, but Mr Peces-Barba, socialist president of this same House from 1982 to 1986 and professor of Philosophy of Law, who declared in relation to his own party and to this bill: We are hostages of very radical feminist minority sectors and people on the left of the PSOE. [[Several Members: Hala!-Protests.-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, a 16-year-old girl does not have the maturity or autonomy to take that decision alone. Eye, they are not my words; they were pronounced by José Antonio Pérez Tapias, professor of Philosophy at the University of Granada and socialist deputy in the previous legislature. [[Applauds]] In March 2009, the Junta de Andalucia ruled by decree on aesthetic surgery to put - I quote textually - order and rigour in the increase experienced by these interventions, establishing that minors who wish to undergo an aesthetic surgery operation should undergo a psychological examination - I quote textually again - to assess their level of maturity and rule out disorders that contraindicate the intervention. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] The decree adds that parents should be informed and their views taken into account. The Health Council of the Board of Andalusia in its day justified this decision because any cosmetic surgery carries a serious risk. I think it strikes any comment on the relevance of abortion in relation to any cosmetic surgery operation considered by the Andalusian Board as a serious risk action. In summary, despite the stupor and concern of Spanish society and an important part of the socialist leaders, as we have just seen, Organic Law 2/2010 introduced an article 13.4, which reads: In the case of women aged sixteen and seventeen years - women - consent for the voluntary termination of pregnancy will be exclusively theirs in accordance with the general regime applicable to older women. In other words, it equates them in practice with older women. [[Mrs López i Chamosa: Read the whole article!- Rumors]] It incorporated in the following paragraph the need to inform one of the parents, thanks to the above-mentioned amendment, but exempted that need for information in the immediately subsequent paragraph, effectively invalidating that duty of information to parents or guardians. The second final provision also amended Act No. 41/2002, which regulates the autonomy of the patient, to allow consent for the medical practice of abortion to be carried out by adolescents over sixteen years of age. This, ladies and gentlemen, was approved in this House in a very tight vote: 184 votes from the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Republican Left, the United Left-Initiative for Catalonia Verds, the Galego Nationalist Block and two votes from the Ten of Convergence i Unió. On the contrary, the draft was rejected by the People's Parliamentary Group, seven deputies from Convergence i Unió, Coalition Canaria, Unión del Pueblo Navarro and Unión Progreso y Democracia, with a total of 158 votes. One abstention. That is, twenty-six votes separated one position from the other; twenty-six votes allowed a measure that might have had meaning in extreme and very minority cases - exemption from parental consent, e.g. in the case of violence, uprooting or helplessness in the family - to become the general rule of application to all Spanish minors and their families. The minority, ladies and gentlemen, is the legal representation of a period of life in which intellectual development is not enough and psychological and emotional maturity has not been achieved. That is why there is neither the capacity nor the serenity enough to be able to make certain decisions, such as the one we are dealing with, because of the serious and transcendent nature of the issue. The organic law established a general rule - the absence of parental authorization - starting from fortunately exceptional situations, of uprooting or violence, that is, the general regime attended to the exception and not to all Spanish teenagers, who are fortunately not raped or assaulted by their parents, but who find in their family the support, the advice and the precise affection in those difficult moments of that particularly delicate age in which their personality is being shaped. Similarly, the general regime assumed the exceptional situations of violent or abusive parents as if they were all Spanish parents, formally preventing that great majority of couples from exercising parental authority in one of the most difficult moments in the life of their teenage daughters, avoiding their obligation as parents - established in our Constitution, in its articles 27 and 39.3, and above all in article 154 of the Civil Code - to ensure that their children are not emancipated, to keep them in their company, to feed them, to educate them and to provide them with comprehensive training. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain is carrying out a whole series of major actions in this legislature which constitute a new status for the protection of minors. Draft laws and organic legislation amending the child protection system are currently being processed in this House, with the aim of ensuring the special protection of minors in our country and responding to the needs of the current situation. Among other measures, foster and adoption procedures are expedited, with the aim of ensuring that children in this process spend as little time as possible under the guardianship or custody of the administrations and are part of a family as soon as possible. Children are also recognized as victims of gender-based violence; a right that, as you are well aware, has been a battlehorse of the People's Parliamentary Group since the same time as the adoption of Organic Law 1/2004, of comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence. The Law on the Protection of Large Families is also amended to improve the legal benefits enjoyed by large families at this time. The recently adopted Penal Code has also raised the age of consent of minors to have sex with adults - one of the lowest in Europe, thirteen years - to sixteen years, so that there is no abuse of power by the adult in establishing such a relationship; the minimum age for marriage is also raised. In the same line of protection for minors, adolescent patients may remain in paediatric units up to the age of eighteen, until their majority - before the age of fourteen -, in response to the demand of families of sick children, since adolescents with severe diseases or long periods of hospitalization moved to adult units at an excessively early age, causing psychologically inadequate situations. Older people, the People's Parliamentary Group will present in the next plenary a non-legislative proposal to urge the Government to incorporate for the first time at European level the obligation to make an impact report on children in draft laws and regulations, which is a crucial issue. I'm done. It is logical that we should try to modify what seems to us to be a legal aberration, such as the fact that the Socialist Government has allowed since 2010 Spanish teenagers to face abortion without having obtained the authorization of their parents or legal representatives and, in some cases, without even informing them and without having had their opinion, advice or support, all in order to bring to their maximum expression the ideological defense of abortion as an absolute right of women and even of minors. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an obvious fact that legislation on abortion is not easy. It is a debate in which moral, philosophical, ethical and scientific arguments are mixed with mantras and slogans concerning the body of women, to which the countries of our environment have given very different solutions, many of them unsatisfactory, since, as is usually established a priori, the objective of the legislation is to eliminate as far as possible the use of abortion. The fact that life conceived cannot be interpreted as an extension of the mother's body is evident. If so, there would be no conflict between women's rights, which are not absolute but exist, and the protection of the unborn, a legal asset to be protected and whose protection is precisely the responsibility of the State. In the proposal for an organic law that we present today in this House we are not validating the law in force. We believe that it is for the Constitutional Court to rule on the question of whether the organic law respects...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u18	Mrs. Gonzalez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u19	I'm done. ... in all its principles the constitutional doctrine and that of the same court in relation to the resolution of the conflict between rights: that of the unborn, although constitutionally worthy of protection, and those of women, their life and dignity, also constitutional values. However, we believe that the point concerning minors is of such importance that we do not want to delay its modification any longer. As you are well aware, Mr President, in the previous parliamentary term, a group of Members of the People's Parliamentary Group submitted an appeal of unconstitutionality in relation to several articles of the organic law, including, of course, the one concerning the valid consent of minors, as opposed to the protection of minors, which is one of the guiding principles of our legal system both in the constitutional and international spheres, and the exercise of parental authority. There were also doubts and objections regarding seven other precepts in that appeal. Today, almost five years later, we believe that the Constitutional Court must rule on this appeal, in order to provide clarity and legal certainty, and we present this proposal for an organic law with which we believe we are responsible for the demand of the majority of Spanish mothers and parents in relation to their teenage daughters. They do have the right to know their situation, to support and advise them and the duty to assist them, as set out in article 39 of our Constitution. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u20	Thank you, Mrs. González. The Socialist Group has called for the use of the shift against this consideration. For the defence of it, Mrs Monton has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I think you're wrong about the year; it's 2015. From what you have said, I see you would have liked to be in the 2010 debate, but that was held five years ago and, as you well know, history is no longer going backwards. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all right. In the face of a new election, the People's Party once again uses women as a currency of exchange with the most conservative sectors. The bill they bring to the House today is a barter reform, an electoral reform that only seeks to get a handful of votes, a reform that leaves the most vulnerable women, the youngest women, in defense. Today they come - at least this is what they have recorded - with the claim to repeal Article 13(4) of the law in force. But what do they intend to repeal with this article? The Act currently states that girls aged sixteen and seventeen years may voluntarily terminate their pregnancy without informing their parents when they are in a situation of true danger, domestic violence, threats, coercion, ill-treatment or a situation of uprooting or helplessness. That is what the People's Party wants to repeal today, and they dare to call it nothing more and nothing less than strengthening the protection of minors. For example, to strengthen protection, they require that a young woman ill-treated by her father have to ask permission to interrupt her pregnancy precisely from that ill-treated father. [[Applauds]] No one can escape that the consequence of the reform that the People's Party intends to carry out is to bring young women into clandestine and unsafe abortion. Any young woman, with a mobile phone and Internet connection, easily access non-specific drugs that can cause an abortion. With misoprostol, among others, a woman can cause an abortion; that is, at the cost of endangering her health and life, because it can cause such a strong hemorrhage that requires an emergency medical intervention. You, like me, can perfectly imagine the situation. With this reform, a young woman with an unwanted pregnancy and who is suffering from ill-treatment of her father, mother or both - I remind you that the PP has also abandoned sex education and the ease of access to contraceptive methods -, a young woman, who does not dare or cannot ask permission from her family or much less count her, gets pills on the black market and can bleed alone. [[Rumors]] I'm portraying reality to you. The Socialist Party is not going to shut up or look elsewhere, because this is what the electoral calculations of the People's Party translate into. [[Applauds]] That has been said until boredom by international organizations, the United Nations, the World Health Organization or the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to health. They have all expressed concern about the direct relationship between restrictive laws and clandestine abortion and their risk to women's life, health and well-being. Even more. The current Abortion Act is a good law because it fulfils the objective of reducing the number of unwanted pregnancies. That should be the shared goal. In 2010, legislation was enacted to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and, therefore, to reduce the number of abortions, not to criminalize women and rob them of their right to decide. It's a good law. In 2013, the last year of which we have official figures, the lowest abortion rate in the last seven years has been recorded, especially those of young women, those under the age of 30. In 2014, according to the ACAI study, 0.4% of the total number of women who aborted were young women who were unable to inform their parents for the reasons stated by the law; 0.4% were young women who were under duress, under threats, who suffered domestic violence, ill-treatment, uprooting or helplessness. What do you want? To punish these young people even more? How dare Minister Alonso say that this reform is for young women to be accompanied if we have already seen that they cannot? What is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, is to develop the entire part of the law that concerns sex education and prevention, not punishing and persecuting young women. You have deliberately concealed the first part of the law. The PP only talks about abortion, but the law in force is called the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the Voluntary Termination of Pregnancy Act. Sexual and reproductive health, and it refers to the entire title I of the law. Chapter I, to public policies for sexual and reproductive health. Chapter II, measures in the field of health. Chapter III, measures in the field of education. Chapter IV, to the sexual and reproductive health strategy, which had to be developed in cooperation with the autonomous communities and which places the emphasis, precisely, on young women and adolescents. They're obeying the law. While the laws are in force, the Government has an obligation to comply with them. But even more. Now, in this last pirouette, they speak of consensus, when they actually play to divide, to confront society. The law in force is one of the most dialogic and debated laws of democracy. The work was carried out in 2008, with a first part in the subcommittee, before the start of the parliamentary debate, where it was enriched with amendments from virtually all groups. In parallel, the Government established an expert committee and met, one by one, with all the groups and associations that felt they had something to say about it. He had the support of eight parliamentary political formations, virtually all of them in the House, with the exception of the PP. So much so that, with a government that did not have an absolute majority, the parliamentary process ended in the Senate. Two years of work, listening, dialogue to achieve the political and also social support that in 2010 obtained the law, because, ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society has told it with clarity on repeated occasions and forcefully, with the forcefulness that it told it with the freedom train. The PP wanted to break society, to seek dissent even in the ranks of the Socialist Party, but what has happened to them is that they have broken their own party. Now, when you speak of seeking the greatest possible consensus, you refer to yourselves. His consensus translates into negotiations with the parliamentarians of his own group and with all the religious confessions, according to Minister Catalá. And where are the women? Where? Where are the health experts, scientific societies, youth organizations, social workers? Where are the parliamentary groups? [[Applauds]] They're deciding behind the backs of society. Minister Catalá has also said that they want to return to the consensus of the 1980s. But what consensus are you talking about? If you did not agree with that law, you voted against it and took it to the Constitutional Court, just as you have now. We don't want to go back to the 1980s; we don't want them to put us in the tunnel of time. Spanish women are citizens with rights and we know perfectly well how to make decisions for ourselves. We don't have to ask permission or forgiveness to be mothers or not to form our own family. If we women have no right to decide about our motherhood, as the PP lordships have expressed in the press, then who has it? Who has the right to decide for us? [[A Member: Rouco]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they do not open up false debates. The law in force states, in text, that its purpose is to guarantee fundamental rights in the field of sexual and reproductive health and in article 3 it also recognizes, in text, the right to maternity freely decided. We defended it in 2010 and that is precisely what we are defending now. The PP's is a cowardly reform because it comes through the back door. No minister has wanted to take charge of it, it has had to be the parliamentary group that presents it in order to avoid the mandatory reports, the report of the Council of State and that of the General Council of the Judiciary, because they have recorded a text while launching a debate on other issues, such as those I have just pointed out. As I've already told you, it's a changeover. What is very important for women, even in some situations of life or death, for the PP is a simple electoral calculation. After five years of the adoption of the current law there is no other reason for alarm or retreat than the internal pressure of his own party with the most conservative sectors and parliamentarians who are acting as a genuine ultra lobby; the pressure of the Episcopal Conference, with which, according to his own declarations, they have negotiated the reform and the pressure that matters most to them, that of electoral calculation. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if they were honest, they would have withdrawn the remedy of unconstitutionality and, with an absolute majority like the one they have, they would have raised a new law, their law, theirs, as they have done on many other issues, but they prefer to twist ideas and concepts. Withdraw the remedy and do not force the Constitutional Court to rule on whether or not this Constitution protects the sexual and reproductive rights of women, rights adopted twenty-one years ago at the United Nations International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo. The Socialist Party is going to vote against the reform of the PP and we are going to do everything in our power, as much as possible, to prevent the amendment of the current law. We are not going to support this Government that is acting like a trier with women's rights. We still don't know what glass that ball is in, because the PP moves it every day before the election. They want to take votes from everywhere, from their most conservative wing and from the least reactionary, and for that they have no problem using women's rights as an electoral commodity. And we're going to say no, whenever it takes; we're going to say no, and if they dare to change it, we'll change it as soon as we get to the government. Do not rely on the Socialist Party to use women's rights as an electoral commodity. We tell them, no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Monton. Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u23	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention first of all that the criticisms of the procedure followed by a proposal for an organic law for the presentation of this text that we are discussing today are unfounded, as long as the absence of reports is not real. The precept that is amended was informed in its day in the preliminary draft of the Organic Law 2/2010 by the Fiscal Council, the Attorney General's Office, the Council of State and the Committee of Experts that illuminated the elaboration of this preliminary draft. Therefore, when we propose to this House the deletion of this article, we do so on the basis of those reports which establish this point as the most controversial point in the law. In addition, we also take into account the alarm that created in Spanish society the possibility that adolescents could abort without the consent or knowledge of their parents. There has also been repeated reference to electoral reasons, talk of women and currency, talk of electoral calculations. I think it is well known to you that the People's Party's election programme for the November 2011 general elections explicitly included the repeal of this item on minors. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we understand that the mention of electoral reasons is even appropriate because it is a commitment of our party to its voters. It has also referred to cases of child victims of ill-treatment, abuse and uprooting by their parents who will be forced to have their consent to terminate their pregnancy. I have to reply to this that the Civil Code to which the proposed law makes use already provides solutions to this type of problem and, of course, in such cases minors will not have to have the consent of their parents. In the same way that I have to respond to this cry of media suffocation, which sometimes have little intellectual reflection behind, that women do have the right to decide about their motherhood and in fact they have done so in this country for a long time. The problem, as you know very well even if you do not want to mention it, is that one thing is the right to motherhood and another very different is that supposed absolute right to abortion. Abortion is no longer a method of contraception and I am not telling you now, exactly a week ago the Deputy Secretary General and Executive Director of the Population Fund of the United Nations, Mr. Osotimehin, told you right here at the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Please, Mrs Montón, do not take the power to speak on behalf of the Spanish women, because in this House, Mrs Montón, who is most authorized to speak on behalf of the Spanish women is the People's Parliamentary Group which obtained the absolute majority of votes in this country in 2011. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] That is why our group represents more Spanish women and we therefore have more right, or at least the same right, to speak on your behalf. [[Applauds]] With regard to its last formulation, the withdrawal of the Constitutional Court's appeal, I must say that we do not withdraw it but resort to the Constitutional Court, which is the highest interpreter of fundamental rights, with the aim of having a solid legal basis on which to consider possible future proceedings. We believe that, on such an important subject, greater legal certainty is needed. I would now like to appeal to that will of agreement, here and now in this House, because that will of agreement is manifested here and now. Many of you, many of you were part of this House when the Socialist Government defended your organic bill and a large part of you, themselves and themselves as spokespersons for your respective parliamentary groups, agreed with the People's Parliamentary Group in its rejection of the possibility that minors could abort without the consent or knowledge of their parents or guardians. For example, UPyD said that it found a demagogic and inconsistent exception, that of minors, such as the one intended to establish. Ms Tarruella said that this bill was another step in the degradation of parental authority, that is, in the duty and function of parents to care for their children, to provide for them, to educate them and to provide them with comprehensive training; and that the project aims to reduce to a simple obligation of accommodation, that is, of accommodation and maintenance. Mr Xuclà also tabled an amendment together with Mr Macias, Mr Jané and Mrs Riera, and in his defence he said: We share the rejection of the expectation that minors between the ages of sixteen and eighteen can abort without parental knowledge. Finally, Mr Agirretxea, in addition to saying that his group does not consider abortion to be a right, also referred to this issue that brings us here today, mentioning: We consider that parents or legal guardians of pregnant girls between sixteen and eighteen years of age who decide to interrupt their pregnancy should be notified or notified of such a decision, something that the bill does not provide for. He also added: Homeland authority is something we should not use in our free will. Also, why do the fifteen and not the sixteen? For this reason, Mr de UPyD, Mr de Convergencei Unió, Mr de Vasco, I would like to appeal to your consistency and remind you of your position five years ago on this subject so that now that we have a new opportunity to join the People's Parliamentary Group in changing a situation that, like us, seemed to you in your day - and I understand that it should still seem - dangerous...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u24	Mrs. González, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u25	... crazy and unheard of. Second chances in life are very rare. Let us take advantage of this decision of the People's Parliamentary Group, through this proposal of organic law, to legislate in a more balanced, more sensible way and according to the majority of Spanish and Spanish. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u26	Thank you, Mrs. González. Mrs. Monton.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this right has not yet learned that women are citizens with full rights. The PSOE is in favour of women, of all women: of the youngest, of the most vulnerable, of those who have no resources, of all, and our rights are not rights to take and put, they are not to the burden, Mrs González; our rights are rights of citizenship. The reform that you are defending today before this House runs counter to all the international recommendations and also leads to a very dangerous hidden debate. They have been trading for so long with the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act vote that we don't even know if they're going to amend themselves in the amendment process. [[Rumors]] It is a reform that we are not going to support in any way because it is harmful, because it is born from a false debate, from a false concern and because, I repeat, this Government has behaved like a trier with women's rights. It was the parliamentary group that presented the reform in the House. Preceptive reports are skipped, they speak of consensus, but they refer to negotiations with their own deputies and the Episcopal Conference; they speak of the right to abortion when what is contained in the current law is the sexual and reproductive law endorsed by the United Nations, by the World Health Organization, by the Council of Europe. In case all this fails, you reserve plan B: maintain the unconstitutionality resource. Troopers! Trilers with women's rights. [[Applauds]] Stop scratching a handful of votes at the expense of women's rights. I'll remind you of something important. Before passing the law in 2010, the Government requested the report from the Council of State, which was drafted by Miguel Herrero and Rodríguez de Miñon, one of the parents of the Constitution, nothing suspected of radicality - or yes?, you will explain it to me - and it was approved unanimously. [[Rumors]] That is, unanimously on 17 September 2009, the Council of State endorsed the constitutionality of the current Abortion Act. Leave the law alone, leave women's rights alone, stop playing with the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act because there are many women who are tired and for many women it is an issue that can endanger their health and life, especially for those women who previously portrayed you, those 16- and 17-year-olds who account for 0.4 per cent of abortions in Spain but who are living in the worst situations, in the worst circumstances of threats, coercion and ill-treatment within their own family. You should worry about them and ask why you can't count on your parents instead of chasing them and blaming them. They should also be concerned about prevention. The first part of the law seeks to prevent unwanted pregnancies and thus lower abortion rates. It has already been shown that this law is effective in reducing abortions and unwanted pregnancies. What else has to happen after five years in which there has been no social alarm or abuse or misuse of this law? And I end up saying no again, let them leave it now, let them not touch us with the law, let them no longer trade in women's rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Monton. We are entering a position-setting shift and we start with the Joint Group which will make several interventions, so I ask its spokespersons to stick to the time we have set up. First of all, Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in December last year I asked the president of Spanish Radiotelevision in writing what initiatives had been taken to comply with Article 6 of the current Abortion Act, which mandates the development of information and awareness-raising measures on abortion and the prevention of unwanted pregnancies. Less than a month ago, your president answered me. What have they done? Nothing. That is the question: what we want and what else we can do to cope with the scourge of abortion. Union of the Navarro People opposed the law of the Socialist Party fundamentally because we believed and believe that protecting an absolute right to abort without any limit is incompatible with the "all have the right to life" of article 15 of the Spanish Constitution. By the way, can anyone explain why the Constitutional Court still does not resolve the appeal lodged by the People's Party four years ago? Today we are discussing a proposal for a law that should serve, ladies and gentlemen, to change a certain collective consciousness about the act of abortion, which for some or some represents a great advance in freedom and humanity, when it is not. For the Union of the Navarro People this proposal is more than nothing, but much less than what is required to defend human life and the protection of the most defenceless, although if it has something useful, which has it, it opens up again a debate on life, on its dignity, on the limits of freedom and on the different visions that everyone has on this very sensitive issue. My party and I will vote in favour precisely and only in order to be able to table our own amendments, amendments in order to try to put an end to the articles of the 2010 law which, as the People's Party's appeal very well explains, we believe are unconstitutional, amendments to introduce amendments in the Socialist Party's law that balance the legal assets in conflict, freedom and human lives that are eliminated with each abortion and also to incorporate a new title that includes a comprehensive plan to support motherhood in defense of the unborn and to promote the family. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, as I began, by insisting that in addition to the regulatory changes that we can adopt, much more can be done to help mothers and to recognize the dignity of those who, being like us, equal to us, if they could speak, would ask us to offer them a friendly hand with which to help them take their first steps in the way of life, the same way, I insist, the same as we all who have the fortune to participate in this debate. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we intend to do in the processing of this proposal,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u30	Mr. Savior, you finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u31	...without any kind of complex, by the way.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. The People's Group is presenting to debate in this House an initiative to reform existing legislation on abortion. I have little time but enough time to realize that this retouching, the retouching of Organic Law 2/2010, colloquially known as Aid Law, is mild, punctual and express It is an initiative that has only to do with the coincidence with the electoral period and with the commitments made with the voters. This is one more of the violations by the People's Party in social matters, in matters of principles, in matters of postulates and values which it defends verbally and documentally as a political party. This party, and I am sorry to say this, is the most obvious example of democratic history of what a party mutation means from its dome, which has shifted the party's axis from honor to worship to power. Your position before the Aided Law, despite your appeal to the Constitutional Court, is that of maintaining the existing legal situation, concealing with parliamentary trifles but, above all, you are frightened of the controversy of a social matter that affects nuclearly the concept of the right to life and the right to freedom to decide. The text they propose is of minimal retouching: that for the voluntary termination of pregnancy of underage women it is necessary the voluntariness and the knowledge and consent of their parents is pure consistency with the principle of age majority of the Civil Code and pure consistency with all our educational legislation that forms one of the legs of national, autonomous and even local formation regarding the laws of the centers themselves that hold parents with underage pupils responsible for intervening in all kinds of academic decisions and, to a greater or lesser extent, in those proper to school coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, if you even have to have parental consent to leave school! All this makes me wonder how it is possible to consider positive that the existing legislation on abortion does not require the knowledge and consent of parents at such a moment in the life of adolescents. How one can understand the contradiction that parental authority over underage children, with its requirement of strong responsibility and training and information right towards their children, is laminated in the name of freedom and personal right to decide. Our yes to the consideration of the proposal of law without hesitation because I will say, paraphrasing Martin Luther King: it is not necessary to see the whole staircase, it is enough for me to see the first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's indecent. It is indecent that by a handful of votes they want to usurp the decision, a decision that is not theirs. Of all the decisions, the most likely to affect a woman for life is to be a mother, and to be a mother without wanting to be a mother is not a decision, it is a sentence to a person who is sixteen years old. It is indecent that by a handful of votes they are preventing women from freely deciding their future, because it is their future and not that of their parents that is at stake. You can force them to have a child they didn't want to have, and that doesn't have to go back. Her life will be conditioned forever by a decision others made for her. It is a life-long decision and must be made by the person to whom it affects, no one else. How can a 16-year-old girl be considered mature enough to be a mother and immature enough to decide not to be? Do you know how mature it is to be a father and a mother? Of course they do. But won't it be much higher than it has to be in order not to be? They try to confuse it by believing that under current legislation it is practically illegal or impossible to inform guardians when the truth is that nine out of ten women between the ages of 16 and 17 have the consent of their parents. It is the woman who has to weigh and evaluate whether she prefers to inform and be accompanied or not. It is a reform that does not even dare to regulate its own consequences, because in case of conflict they simply refer to the Civil Code. You legislate against reality, against women, against freedom, against what the United Nations recommends, against what the World Health Organization defends; you legislate against common sense and all for a handful of votes by people who claim to defend life and who return home contented after the "mani" and then disagree with the real problem: 2.5 million children at risk of poverty. That's where they'd have to legislate and not get their hands on the woman's body and freedom for a handful of votes. Simply indecent. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, how unfortunate. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is proposing a law to please a minority of its party and electorate and it does not hurt at all, but absolutely nothing, to legislate against the social majority, which is what it is doing with the proposal it is presenting today. It pains him absolutely nothing to legislate against nature we could say, because there is a proposal that does not respond to any need or demand that can be socially justified, because I say again that it is a minority. Mrs Gonzalez, the social alarm that arises from the fact that a child can abort without the knowledge of her parents is the threat you generate by lying. [[Applauds]] They lie, gentlemen of the People's Group, when they say that the law allows teenagers to abort without the knowledge of their parents. That is a true lie and you yourself, in your speech, had to acknowledge that Article 13(4) reflects the need for such information to parents. Another thing is that at the same time the precise precautions are taken to protect those young people who cannot rely on the support of their parents. The data, Mrs González and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, show this: 90% of the minors who have gone to abortion since the current law is in force have been accompanied by their parents; only 10% or 12% have not done so, but they have duly justified that the lack of accompaniment was motivated by family breakdown, violence, even pregnancy as a result of parental rape. This is the reality of that 10% which did not have parental or maternal support, ladies and gentlemen. You intend with this legislative amendment to condemn this group of people to absolute health insecurity who will have to resort to abortion in the worst possible conditions, which could cost them even their lives. This is not just an injustice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, this is a genuine cruelty that you are doing to a group of young people who have to make a serious decision.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u37	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, do not expect that from the Galego Nationalist Block we can support an injustice and cruelty as great as that which you propose to us today, so we are voting against. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u40	Long live the Catalan Republic! Watch the Spanish Republic! Watch the Iberian nations! Ladies and gentlemen, the future is republican because republic is synonymous with freedom since 1931, when women were granted by the Republic all their guarantees and all their rights to decide freely about their motherhood. And in a perverse way today, precisely today, April 14, is the day chosen by the reactionaries to violate the sexual and reproductive rights of women with an initiative that aims to boost the Law of the year 2010. They do not care about the vast majority of parliamentarians who made it possible, nor do they care about how this law allowed us to pass on the rest of European legislation, as they do not care that its only purpose is to content the most fundamentalist ecclesiastical hierarchy and the far right of your party to face elections that I feel will not be too easy for you. They disregard the recognition of the benefits of this law, which has even brought down the number of abortions among young people, and also cynically ignore the fact that most young women go to clinics accompanied by parents. You ignore it because you prefer to sacrifice the safety of these young women, precisely the most helpless and vulnerable women who are experiencing tougher situations. All this to satisfy his fanaticism and his classism. We already told you in 2010, you will always have London for your wives and daughters. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have this republican pride, because we long for a society in which it is women, only women, who decide on their own body and not men and God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Ma'am, Enbeita.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that today the People's Party wants to get for the good what it couldn't get for the bad. Mr Gallardón had to give up his efforts to reduce the reproductive rights of women to a coup, but it seems that his intention did not go away with him and those muds these dusts. The People's Party now asks us to take into consideration the debate on the legal or moral age to abort or something. This week the minister said that abortion is not a right. You may confuse the right with the right and to more rights than we ask you to impose us more right and, of course, paint us a rather tragic reality. It seems that minors, poor women, are unprotected and radical feminists, very bad, force them to abort and they, without knowing what they are doing, flee from their parents and abort. Ladies and gentlemen, having sex at the age of sixteen is free; getting married at the age of sixteen is legal, and more so, by getting married you can get the legal majority for a lot of things. Being a mother at the age of sixteen is also free and no one's permission is needed to do so, but if instead of deciding to be a mother one decides not to be, everything becomes complicated. Ladies and gentlemen, this has a lot of hypocrisy. Youth need not be protected from dangers and traumas that need not exist. Young women need freedom to decide about themselves, freedom to choose what they want to do with their lives and freedom to be without any gender imposition. Building that freedom requires proper education while you live and not that thing that you have taken out of a tetric film and that you want to impose on us, which is called the Lomce, because, instead of education, what we are offering are false morals. Have you thought, for example, about what can happen when a divorced couple uses their daughter's right to abort to throw away their junk; if you say yes, I say no? What are they gonna do? Will a judge decide? Who's gonna decide? Great protection for young women; in the end, all they want with this law is to send them to London or to clandestine clinics. Moreover, if you thought that parents in general would not oppose the rights of their daughters, you would not force anyone to need permission to exercise their rights. It seems that, between lines, you define as good parents those who force their daughters to be mothers. A day like today in 1931 was proclaimed the Second Republic in the Spanish State and, coming to the case, I would like to bring here a few words from Clara Campoamor. He said: Solve what you want, but facing the responsibility of bringing that half of the human race into politics so that politics is a thing of two, because there is only one thing that makes one sex, light up, the others do it all in common. You cannot come here to legislate, to vote taxes, to dictate duties, to legislate on the human race, on the woman and on the child, isolated and outside of us. For that, ladies and gentlemen, to decide whether to light up or not, when and how, is a decision that belongs to us women. In conclusion, I would like to make a point to the bishops who have asked the honourable Members for conscience and coherence. Don't forget that we're not the ones born from their ribs, they're the ones born from another place that I'm not going to mention today. Don't get so tired of protecting us, to be free we settle down. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Enbeita. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. We are debating today in plenary a proposal for a law of the People's Party which is important to analyse on the basis of a background. We have a law in force that was passed in 2010, the 2/2010, a law that we adopted among various groups resulting from many negotiations and many consensuses, which as has been said here collected and made a qualitative leap in what until then was the legal treatment that abortion had had in the Spanish State. Not only did he decriminalize himself, but he went from being a law of assumptions to a law of deadlines. Subsequently, in an election campaign, the People's Party promised that it would change that law. That was the proposal he made in campaign, which seems to be taken up in the form of Mr Gallardón's preliminary draft law. For there was no law, the law was withdrawn, and until there was no minister, because they withdrew even the minister. But it happened that, automatically, that electoral promise had to be fulfilled. And how have they kept that election promise? By means of a proposal for a law which is not of the Government, but of the People's Party - a legally established practice, but which is not customary - and which has a single change, the issue of age, which is important, but which is not the cornerstone of the law that we have in force. I therefore understand that the People's Party is making a qualitative leap. We shouldn't be talking about abortion today. This is not a debate to talk about what abortion is, what it means, the concepts that are used of life, of nasciturus, all that was discussed at the time. You know why? Because according to this amendment, no group questions whether or not an abortion can take place within a certain time frame, nor do you. It is questioned who can abort, and it is important, but I say again that it is not the cornerstone of the law. I therefore understand that the PP accepts the consensus established four years ago and, as I said, the centre of the current law. Or won't you accept it? Because it was two issues that were discussed: decriminalization - do they agree or not? - and moving from a law of assumptions to a law of deadlines. Therefore, if the amendment you bring to the House today refers only to age, I must understand that with everything else you do not dare, do not want or understand that it is okay. By withdrawing Gallardon's law and not accepting it - not even the minister - and with this change that they put on the table today I must understand that you accept, or if not this is a hypocritical proposal, and it is not an insult. The definition that the Royal Academy of Language gives of hypocrisy is the faking of qualities or feelings contrary to those who truly feel or experience. I believe that you are cheating in your speech, because if you give the valid speech that Sandra Moneo made here four years ago when the law was debated, I must understand that you are cheating in your words or in your deeds. One of two. The proposed amendment you are bringing is of only two articles. Article 13, paragraph 4 of which is deleted. This article states that in the case of 16- and 17-year-old women, consent to voluntary termination of pregnancy is their exclusive responsibility, in accordance with the general regime applicable to older women. At least - that is why they say everything - one of the legal representatives - father or mother, persons with parental authority or guardians of women of those ages - must be informed of the decision of the woman. That's what the law says. He also says that this information will be dispensed with when the minor claims that this is a serious conflict that has been manifested in danger of violence, and so on, that we have all heard so many times today. The law provides that information should be provided, except as may be justified. This is an issue that is already guaranteed by law. The other is Article 9(4) of Law 41/2002 on Patient Autonomy, which states that minors must have the express consent of their legal representatives. They take it out of one law and put it in another. As an amendment, you argue that the Civil Code establishes the obligation of guardians, parents, legal representatives, to care for, accompany, protect, and so on. Obviously, the people we approved by way of amendment this article included in the current law we thought the same thing, and because we thought that parents have that obligation we included it in the cases to which you have turned, precisely because not all families offer what you say, because not all families have that capacity to work properly. You have quoted the Civil Code and said: How will a person who cannot vote be able to...? I can tell you: How can a person who cannot vote get married, for example? Change that legislation as well, but they have not. The problem lies in those young people who feel neither accompanied nor veiled nor protected. That is the misfortune, that the law must guarantee legal certainty to those whose families do not give it to them. We are neither irresponsible nor perverts of minors, as one has said to another, referring to those who accept that amendment. We're not, we could get there! We are very responsible and precisely because we want to protect those people who are unprotected we want the law to protect them. With this amendment we can make the problem that you intend to mitigate worse because it will increase the number of illegal abortions, because children who do not want to report will abort without health or legal security, with a serious risk. Precisely, this safeguard was incorporated into the article, in order to protect these women from helplessness and not those who do not. Mrs Gonzalez, we all want - I am the first, and you know it - that a young woman who needs to have an abortion should be accompanied by her loved ones, protected and cared for. And those who don't have that environment, what should they do? And women who may suffer injury or abuse, including domestic rape, what safeguards do they have? The Civil Code, as you say, a posteriori, when there is no longer a remedy? Is that the solution? You have quoted me, and since you have quoted me, I will answer you. We have the coherence that surely - forgive the expression - you have not had, because you do not dare to say what you think or do not think what you dare to say. We had the same approach from the beginning. We were the ones who introduced the obligation to report and that is where the obligation to report is established by law. For the cases that have taken place and because of negotiations, we believe that there are indeed families at risk and that this should also be included, but it is already covered. Therefore, consistency is the same then and now. I want to say something important, because, after all, all this is reduced to the number of people who have aborted, and it is that with the current law, which is in force, the number of abortions has not increased. Of the 25,000 abortions that we have been credited with, only 113 cases were of minors, and 88% of the minors who aborted were accompanied by their loved ones. 3.60% of abortions were minors and only 0.44% did not report. We are talking about 113 cases of 25,000 voluntary terminations of pregnancy. In conclusion, we believe that the change was not necessary, because it has not affected the percentage. This proposed change does not provide legal or health security; it removes it. It is a face wash and a make-up of the People's Party that does not please your own, because here it is the People's Party that has changed, not the others. It seems to me that it is a cowardly position of the Government, because it has not yet presented its bill; it has decided that it is the People's Parliamentary Group, and that all the precepts of introducing a bill have been dropped. I therefore make it clear that this is a cowardly proposal. The Government has not dared to bring a bill to this House. Our goal has always been and will be to avoid unwanted pregnancies, which is the crux of the matter. Our goal is prevention, because abortion is a consequence of an unwanted pregnancy. Prevention, sex education and an environment that provides all the tools that education gives us to prevent that from happening must be addressed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u45	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u46	I'm done. We are afraid that at the amendment stage you will make another number of amendments that you do not make now. That would be, at least, quite embarrassing and ridiculous. I hope they don't. For all the issues I have mentioned, we are going to vote against this consideration. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The first thing I have to say, Mrs González, is that you made a nice speech. The paradoxical thing is that your speech does not follow the conclusions that are supposed to be in your draft reform of the Abortion Law, but rather the contrary, because you have made a very harsh criticism of the previous Government and the Socialist Party in particular by saying that you presented a party law on a subject that you yourself have defined as very controversial, but you have done exactly the same thing. This is the first thing we have to say. One of the reasons - although there are several - why my group cannot support your proposal is precisely because they are doing exactly the same thing that you have criticized in very harsh and eloquent terms the Socialist Party and the government of Rodriguez Zapatero in the previous legislature. He has also quoted what our Member Rosa Díez said in the previous parliamentary term about our disagreement with the idea that the obligation to inform parents in the event of teenage abortions would disappear, but that is that in the end you have done exactly the same thing again, that is, you do not give any other way other than the suppression of a law. We have said this in previous speeches; we think that there are debates on the Abortion Law or any other such law that have to do with basic issues that, by the way, are very cross-cutting, cannot be party - I will insist on this several times because it is the fundamental idea -; a law on issues such as abortion cannot be democratically made, which is a question of conscience, from the point of view of a particular moral, much less a party moral - this is the main failure - and you again incur this. We have already told you, if there has to be an in-depth debate on the current abortion law it has to be in two ways; first, to improve their legal security, and secondly, to improve women's capacity, freedom of decision within a time-frame that is clear and transparent. We think that the current law is improveable in this sense, but you have not proposed any improvement in the current law; you propose to delete certain articles that have to do with an operation - it is quite obvious - of electoral type. This frankly seems embarrassing to us, because you - some previous speaker has also said - have acted here with a certain parliamentary filibusterism. This micro-reform of the law effectively replaces a reform of the law introduced by the Government, which then withdrew without any explanation, and also with an aggravating factor. In making use of your legislative initiative, this reform proposal does not go beyond the binding reports of the advisory bodies, the mandatory reports, so that we do not know what you think about it by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State and other bodies whose opinion in this case would be extremely relevant. If you once protested and said that this law - the current one, the current one - was made without social consensus, the effort you have now made to broaden that social consensus is minimal, it is minor, and once again this is going to be a law that you will practically pass in solitary, we do not know if with the vote of any other party, but of course with minimal support from this House. That can't be, it's repeating the same mistake one time after another. We cannot turn issues such as abortion into election campaign issues; it cannot become the subject of the pim pam pum between the government party and the main opposition party and vice versa. This way we don't get anywhere. Do not count on our group to support that kind of tactic and that way of focusing on something that, as we say, would have to be the subject of a serious and in-depth debate, based on a clear separation between ethics and politics. They do not confuse both, or much worse, they do not confuse ethics with the parliamentary majority, as if being in a parliamentary minority already cast doubt on someone's ethics when talking about issues such as sexual or reproductive rights, the option of abortion, and others. I repeat, don't count on us. We have told him several times and we have to maintain the same position. We think it's a serious mistake. It seems to us fatal that this kind of manoeuvre will once again be done during the election period to raise issues that have to do with support for your party in what is its social spectrum. We find it fatal for them to reject a debate on the improvement of a law again without telling us what is wrong with the current law so that we can discuss it and see if there is anything we can agree on. They do so backwards; they withdrew it at the time and, as has been said, they also withdrew the minister by way of passage. In my speech on the Socialist Group's proposal to withdraw the Government's abortion law, I made a quote from Kant, which seems to me to be appropriate again. What Kant said as one of his two moral maxims is that we should not use others as means but as ends. Well, look, it's perfectly applicable, let's not use teenage pregnancies as a means for an election campaign. That is indecent, cannot and should not be done, and we are not going to support any kind of proposal that goes in that direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Plural Left expresses its strong opposition to this proposal for an organic law, because it will not only strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy, but also because, in addition to being unnecessary, none of the arguments put forward by the People's Party to carry it out can be based on scientific, health, social arguments or on the protection of women's fundamental rights. One of those arguments that you use in the very explanatory statement of this bill is that 16- and 17-year-olds can abort without the knowledge of their parents. Many times, we have and have heard them say, as today, in a scandalized tone, that young women cannot make a tattoo or an aesthetic operation and can abort, but that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, beyond prejudice, is simply a lie. The reality is that the Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Pregnancy Discontinuation Act does not say that 16- and 17-year-old girls can abort without the knowledge of their parents; on the contrary, it is a requirement to be able to interrupt their pregnancies. Only those who demonstrate serious conflict, such as abuse or sexual abuse, are exempt - and we repeat this because it has already been said here - are exempt. They also propose an amendment to the Patient's Autonomy Act, even though it provides that decisions on operations from the age of sixteen or on children who are emancipated may not give consent by representation, which is to which you refer, although in case of serious risk the parents will be informed and their opinion will be taken into account, thus complying with all guarantees of health and respect for the decisions freely and consciously taken by the young. Another argument that you make, both in public statements and in this proposal, is that abortion is being used irresponsibly by young women, and even as a method of contraception, or, as the spokesman of the People's Group has again repeated here today, that the measure provided for in the current law entails a total disregard for minors and violates the rights and obligations of parents to exercise guardianship over their daughters, both from a legal and social point of view, helping to deteriorate personal relations and mutual trust within the family and disregarding the support that no one better than a father and a mother can give to their daughter in a situation - they say textually - of vital importance and future impact. But all these arguments are not sustained beyond reactionary positions and are unfounded in the reality contrasted on the basis of data and reports that the People's Party hides and refuses to provide intentionally. In practice, it is more than proven that neither young women have taken abortion as a contraceptive method more or more often have gone alone to the licensed clinics, but almost all of them have been accompanied by their two parents or at least one parent. The latest report by ACAI makes it clear that of the total number of abortions performed in 2014, 3.6% were women between the ages of sixteen and seventeen, and 87% of them were informed to legal guardians. Those who failed to do so justified the risk of ill-treatment, were emancipated or had no relationship with their parents because they lived in another country. Now, with this amendment that they propose to us, they attack precisely these young people, who are the ones who need the greatest protection, spreading their ideological, reactionary and retrograde prejudices, violating their rights and abocating them to an illegal and unsafe abortion. But perhaps the argument that they have used most recently to carry out this bill that they present to us today is the lack of consensus on this point, which was manifested at the time of the adoption of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, placing greater emphasis, concern and detail on the existing one within the ranks of the Government that pushed it, that of the Socialist Party, in 2010, and using for this purpose the statements that were then made by one of its political cadres. It is a little shocking, ladies and gentlemen, not to say pathetic, that the People's Party is now concerned about the dissensions in the Socialist Party when in its ranks the internal rejection of the previous proposal presented by Mr Gallardón for a complete repeal of the current law, costing him his post as Minister of Justice, and when they are now presenting this reform together with the letter made public, sent to the President of the Government and signed by twelve of his parliamentarians, in which they are already warning that they will not vote for this change because, if they do, they would be endorsing the existing law. This is what happens to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when the laws that are intended to be imposed for electoral reasons are also predominantly ideological and lack scientific, health and social arguments that support them. In addition to having serious contradictions and non-compliances with multiple laws, treaties and recommendations that oblige us to protect and safeguard the fundamental rights of women to decide on their own body, health and motherhood, they will never content those who, outlining purely religious motives, claim to end the rights that they attend, but never force, women to decide whether or not they want to be mothers and when they want to be mothers. This is how the People's Party uses women's bodies again as a currency of change between religious elements and their most reactionary voters, forgetting women's fundamental rights and endangering the health and lives of the most vulnerable. But, under this premise, as I say, electoralist and reactionary in which the People's Party drowns itself more than anything, everything will be little until the demands of these ultra-conservative sectors are met; demands that are none other than the disappearance of sexual and reproductive health policies and the total prohibition of legal and safe abortion in our country. This bill is only the principle; we know it, said here by the spokesman for the People's Group. You continue with your appeal to the Constitutional Court and are already talking about introducing into the parliamentary process of the law the amendment to article 3, paragraph 2, of the current law that provides for the right to maternity freely decided and for women to make decisions freely affecting their sexual and reproductive life. Faced with this, The Plural Left is not going to admit a step backwards in the existing Sexual and Reproductive Health Act. Because there is no other way to understand this new attack on the freedom and health of women, in this case the most vulnerable, after the failed attempt of the resigned Gallardón to repeal the current law that ended all the sexual and reproductive health policies provided for by the law and, in practice, the possibility of legal and safe abortion in our country. There is no other way to understand this bill which seeks a reform that represents a step backwards in the progress made in sexual and reproductive rights and the right to decide women about their motherhood than under the ultra-conservative and electoral premises that they market - and it has been said here - with women and their fundamental rights in the public squares of the most reactionary religious elements. You are taking women out to the public square for sale of the most reactionary religious elements. And they do so, once again, with the hypocrisy that characterizes them, with dots, avoiding preceptive reports, without taking into account the data and reports of the scientific health community and without listening to opposition groups and women's associations and organizations; dots, in the last leg of the legislature and to any race to pass quickly and with as little noise as possible. And above all, alluding to consensus, as the clearest demonstration of the ease you have for insulting people's intelligence, especially when it is known that you do not even have the necessary support within your ranks to bring here this proposal of organic law that you present to us. It is a reform that will become the norm the abstention now necessarily contemplated in order to protect young women who interrupt their pregnancy in a situation of maximum family and social vulnerability and who will now enter into a framework of unprotectedness with which they will be engaged in an illegal and unsafe abortion, putting their health and life at risk. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will be responsible...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u51	Mrs. De las Heras, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u52	I'm done, President, ... but, as I have said, everything points out that it is not precisely the protection of the health and life of these women that concerns you. It seems that it is of little or no use then to ask them, to demand here today that they withdraw this proposal of law. They can only be democratically cast in the ballot boxes so that they do not use their absolute majority as a pretext and, in any case, wait for the next legislature to put this new abuse of women's rights out of effect. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u53	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Tarruella has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as is customary in our parliamentary group, you know that there is freedom of vote on issues such as this which we are debating today. Therefore, we are going to share our time with the fellow Member of Democratic Convergence, Mrs Ciuro. I am going to speak here on behalf of the six Members of the Democratic Union of Catalonia to fix our position in this consideration of this bill. From the Democratic Union we spoke against the current law because we did not share, among other things, the opening of debates on whether or not to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy - we said - before we promoted genuine policies in favour of families so that women could truly decide. Since the Democratic Union, we believe that we must look even more at information to young people, at prevention, to avoid such unwanted pregnancies, because when these pregnancies occur, at such delicate times, it is when, more than ever, parents or legal guardians must be at the side of these young people to support them and to help them. Mrs Gonzalez referred a while ago to our position in 2010 when we were discussing our current law. I will repeat again - it was not necessary because you said it, but I want to do it because it was my words on behalf of the four comrades then of the Democratic Union - what we were saying, that the absence of parents in relation to minors is for us a contempt for parental authority and its exercise in the case of abortions of young minors. Few decisions, ladies and gentlemen, can be made at these most important ages and few will find in which the help, support and support of parents and the family are needed more. Besides, I was saying something else, Mrs. González. He also said that the family is not just a service delivery unit, it is the basic unit of society, and Governments cannot expropriate this obligation from parents to give it to others, whether it be another adult, a doctor, a social worker or anyone else. These words I would like to remind you of because at that time, while we were addressing the Socialist Party, our speech also continued as follows: Where are - we said - those alternative measures that can be offered to women in the face of an unwanted pregnancy? Where's the help? Do they help the mother so that she can make the free and responsible decision to continue with the pregnancy? Where is the stimulation of that decision? We asked these questions in 2010 and these questions we continue to ask now to those responsible for the government, in this case to the People's Party. Let us focus on this consideration of this proposal for a law on this point, as regards the consent of minors. At that time that was for us - and we have seen it these days when the debate reopened - a very socially answered measure: the concrete aspect of the need for minors to have the consent of their parents. For this reason, in line with our vote at the time, the six members of the Catalonia Democratic Union will support today the consideration of this bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. I rise today to speak on behalf of my party, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. As my colleague from the Catalan Parliamentary Group has said, both parties are free to vote, but also Democratic Convergence within it also has freedom to vote. On this point, I would like to say to Mrs González, with all due respect, that we are the owners and the ladies and gentlemen of the vote of the Members of the Catalonian Democratic Convergence. We do not need anyone to tell us what we have to vote on, let alone the proposer of a proposal which belongs to a group with voting discipline and which has a division in this area. Therefore, and from the love, we will decide what we will vote for. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I would like to say that we are here again, in the Congress of Deputies, talking about an issue as delicate as the issue of abortion and that this is the second time that the People's Party has made a presentation. It seems that this is going to prosper, but we come from a very crude processing of a bill that in its day failed to see the light, which created division not only on the street, but - it is more - in its own parliamentary group. From the youth leaders of his party and government delegates to the insignia of this House showed their total rejection of the bill presented. The People's Party and the Government had no choice but to withdraw it, the minister had to resign as a result of this misconception and today they are trying to bring us again - in fact they bring it to us - a proposal for a law on which, to be sure, Mrs González, we do not know what we admit to the procedure. It's been said before. Do you agree with the 2010 Act and are we simply going to change the aspect of parental authorization or consent to children under the age of sixteen or seventeen? Is the modification going to stay here? Let us doubt it. We really do not know what we are going to deal with, since if this is the amendment they wanted to bring to this House - and as we are accustomed every week to the approval and ratification and approval of real decree-laws - they could make a modification as many as they have made during this legislature in use of their absolute majority. On the other hand, they bring us here today a proposal for a law to be debated. To discuss what, Your Honor? To accept what kind of amendments? In fact, and on the basis of this radical criticism of the way this initiative is presented and the suspicion that we are being given support or not for this proposal, I would like to say that this is the suspicion that, despite being free to vote, none of the Members of the Democratic Convergence Group will vote in favour of this consideration. Therefore, our parliamentary group is going to lead between abstention and no consideration. Moreover, it is not just formal issues, but it is fundamental issues that concern us. Do you know what's going on, ladies and gentlemen? That from Democratic Convergence and from Convergence and Union we believe that radicalisms are not good for dealing with what kind of issues, and in this issue from Convergence we understand that we must combine several elements at stake and that in a mature, serene and prepared debate, like the one we understand we should have had here today, we should talk about the elements at stake that at least occur to us. On the one hand, there is an element, which is the ability to act of the under-sixteen, which they actually have. How are they not going to have it, how can we deny them that ability to act? We do not agree that it should be accompanied or supported by its parents, because there is another very important element to combine, which is the duty to exercise parental authority. We very much agree that parental authority must be exercised, but it is that parental authority, Your Honor, is not just food, room and education; parental authority and its free exercise - and its responsible exercise, rather - is to assist or assist the integral development of minors, is to collaborate in their integral growth, to attend to those physical and psychological needs that may be presented to them. Ladies and gentlemen, a signed consent is not for us a responsible exercise of parental authority. In this matter, we believe that it is necessary, apart from the support of the most loved ones and the support of the most loved ones, that this consent - that of the child - can be given with as much information as possible. And here no one talks about what to do and how to inform the child who is in a situation of an unwanted pregnancy and is also forced to have the consent of the parents who, as elderly, will have the same ability to face such a dramatic situation, with more resources than the minor, of course, but at best with the same information. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to stop talking at this point that in some families even, when there are excessively loud scenes on television or overly efusive emotional displays, parents tend to divert their children's attention to another issue. These families are the ones that you want to know how to react when a minor has an unwanted pregnancy. That is why we believe that, together with this indispensable accompaniment in the exercise of responsible parental authority, there must be information and accompaniment, there must be specific support from specialized professionals who accompany not only the minor, but also the family in that decision-making. And one thing is to accompany and another is to demand the consent of the parents. We do not agree with the way it is proposed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u57	Mrs. Ciuro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u58	I'm running out, Your Honor. In addition, there is one aspect that seems very important to us. Please note that no one in this debate has ever dealt with an issue, and I will raise it. What about 50% of the biological burden of this pregnancy? Someone has ever thought that maybe it's another minor, sometimes known, and that this gunman can shoot as many times as he wants without being aware of what he's doing and without any kind of responsibility demanded by anyone, just charged to the backs of the minors. I think, ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of work to be done. Tell us what they want with this bill, if it's just reforming this and in what terms, because since Convergence i Unified what we're not going to do is to be accomplices to the mess in which the People's Party lives permanently because it doesn't face in a serene way in its ranks what they want and where they want to get with the sexual and reproductive health rights of children under sixteen, of seventeen and women in this state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u60	No law proposed by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, on the financing of the Valencian Community. Mr Baldoví has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I left a picture in my seat. It was a picture of the last four presidents of the Valencian Generalitat, Mr. Zaplana, Mr. Olivas, Mr. Camps and Mr. Fabra. We have had twenty years of uninterrupted governments of the People's Party and in GDP, in gross domestic product, we are 12 points below the Spanish average. 19,400 euros against 22,800 of the Spanish average, more than 3,000 euros below. We have rates above the Spanish average in dependency, in poverty, at risk of social exclusion, and debt has risen from 6.5% on GDP to 37.9%, from 2.750 million to 37.376, fourth quarter of 2014. Every Valencian was due when Mr. Zaplana came to rule 715 euros. Now with Mr Fabra every Valencian owes 6,416 euros. They've multiplied the debt by fourteen. And then Mr. Rajoy talks about amateur politicians. How would you define these politicians who have taken us here? We are the most indebted community with respect to GDP, 38%. And why? For two reasons: apart from its inoperability, its poor government, its per capita funding, which has been 79% of what should have happened to us during the years 2002-2012. Only in those ten years have we been robbed 21 out of every 100 euros. In general budgets we are always below average, also in investment; for example, this year, EUR 86 below average. That is what we can thank the Valencians to twenty years uninterrupted of the governments of the People's Party, but today they have the opportunity to remedy that anomaly, to redeem themselves. This GNP maintains the spirit of the resolution that you adopted, Resolution 324/VIII of 16 October 2013 of the Valencian Courts, adopted unanimously - you also approved it - which endorsed the report of experts hired by the Generalitat and called for a revision of the model to ensure equality in public services and to claim that historic debt of EUR 13.5 billion. Since then what have you done? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. We have tabled this GNP because we are in a very limited situation, in an emergency situation. There is a certain risk of intervention, they have more than 3 billion euros in unpaid drawers, they take more than 82 days to be able to pay suppliers, there are warnings from the Ministry of Finance. With the resources they give us, which they give us, we receive only 85% of our education and our health. The same Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, recognizes our underfunding. Newspaper El País, January 31, 2015: Montoro recognizes the underfunding of the Community, but there is no time to repair it in this legislature. They have had time to make a labor reform, to approve the co-sponsors, to charge themselves with dependence, to rescue the banks, to shield the electric oligopoly; they have had time to process 198 bills and decrees-laws in these three years, as stated by President Rajoy in the debate on the state of the nation, but they have not had time to review the poor financing of the Valencians, as was their obligation, as is the law. What would you call that? Desire? Defach? Because that has consequences. This setback, this inoperation has faces and eyes: fewer teachers and teachers, more children per classroom, eternal barracks, less doctors and health care, collapsed emergencies, endless waiting lists, fewer resources for dependency, co-operatives in occupational centres, drop-outs in dependent centres because they cannot pay for co-operatives and, in addition, fewer resources for employment, housing, infrastructure and economic promotion policies. His inaction causes sacrifices. Every day, every month, every year that happens, with those 13.5 billion, how many barracks we could have removed, how many dependents we could have helped, how many people would have left the waiting lists. There is a book by Vincent Cucarella in which there is a very illustrative graphic. The board is divided into four parts: above are the rich communities and below are the poor communities. The Valencian Community, the Valencià Country, is of course among the poor. On the one hand there are those who receive solidarity and on the other hand there are those who pay. At the bottom left there is only one autonomous community, the Valencian. We are the only ones who are poorer than the average we pay, that is, that we practice solidarity, even with richer autonomous communities; dementia. This is what you allow. These days we have learned of President Rajoy's commitment to the President of Extremadura to pay that historic debt, and we just want that, we just want that debt to be recognized and the issue of financing to be opened once and for all. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen Miriam Blasco, Gerardo Camps, Amparo Ferrando, Mario Flores, José López Garrido, Santiago Martínez, Julia de Micheo, Macarena Montesinos, Andrea Fabra, Ascension Figueres, Manuel Ibáñez, Vicente Ferrer, Teresa García, Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Immaculate Guaita, Belén Hoyo, Belén Juste, María Martín, Juan Vicente Pérez and Marta Torrado, on which side are you on?, are you on the side of the Valencians or are you on the side of your party? You have a chance today. As far as the amendments are concerned, I accept those tabled by the Socialist Group in paragraphs 1 and 2 of my proposal and, of course, I will not accept the UPyD amendment because it would be to distort and consecrate the sacrifice that the Valencians have made for so many years. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the defence of the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Anchuelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Baldoví has not mentioned me by name, but I am quoted, because this matter that brings us from the financing of the Valencian Community is not something that concerns only the Members elected by Valencia, but we are interested in all those who have been elected anywhere in Spain and who are here looking for the general interest. The report of the experts on which this non-law proposal is based and the non-law proposal itself contains some aspects that we share, and I will quote three in particular. Firstly, it is a reality, it is a fact that the Valencian Community has a financing per capita in homogeneous terms which is below the average, in particular at 95 %; first reality and first fact is true: the Valencian Community has funding per capita in homogeneous terms below the average. Secondly, we share, and it is important, the need for urgent reform of autonomous financing. In fact, the legislation provided for reform this year and the Government and the majority group so far have not given any convincing explanation why this should be left for the next legislature, beyond a general idea that it is a mess. Well, that's what governments are for, and more with an absolute majority, to deal with problems, no matter how lame they may be. Thirdly, we share - and that is why we have not amended it - the spirit of paragraph 1 of its non-law proposal, where it speaks of the principle of equality between citizens, the need to have public services of the same quality regardless of the territory, regardless of the autonomous community where they live. We are happy to share this principle with you. There have been interventions in this legislature on your part and on the part of other groups that did not seem to go in this line, but of course this is something that we have consistently defended from the beginning, the principle of equality, citizens must receive services of similar quality regardless of the autonomous community where they live. By the way, from the experts' report comes a conclusion that you have not cited in your non-law proposal and that is that this principle is contradictory with the fact that in some outlying communities there is as much overfinancing as there is, but it is a necessary consequence of that principle of equality that you recognize here. However, by sharing these issues: underfunding in Valencia, the need for urgent system reform, the principle of equality, there are important issues that we do not share and I am sure you will not be surprised. Firstly, although it is not related to the amendments, it is related to its explanatory statement: does it not seem contradictory to you every time that you have come to this House to talk about cases of waste in the Valencian Community, of corruption in the Valencian Community, of both things at once, waste and corruption, and then to attribute all of Valencia's deficit and all of Valencia's debt to under-financing? There will also have to be so many unnecessary projects, so many useless expenses at airports without aircraft, and so many issues as you and other Members have pointed out from this rostrum during the parliamentary term. Other discrepancies have resulted in amendments. We propose to delete points 2 and 3 of its non-law proposal. Point 3 refers to historical debts and is a concept that seems very dangerous to us, because when you start looking for historical debts from a subjective point of view and without knowing where to stop, when do we go back to our historical grievances? Napoleonic times? Philip V? The Cid? Allow me a thought. If there are such historical aggravations and underfunded communities, should the State deal with these so-called historical debts or should they deal with overfunded communities? I am not saying this to you as a proposal, but as a way of seeing the conflict that these kinds of approaches provoke and the difficulty of shared solutions. We do not share this concept of historical debts so fashionable. There is another issue that we do not share. With our other amendment, we intend to delete point 2. You make some substantive claims for 2014 and 2015, but those years are not yet settled. It is therefore impossible to know whether there has been under-financing or its amount. Our amendments are on this line. We share the issues that I have said about your non-law proposal, but not the historical debts or calculations that are impossible to carry out at the present time. I would like to recall the proposals that my group has made in line with equitable funding because, if we look at the citizens and not at the territories, we will find a better solution not only for the Valencia issue, which concerns us as much as the elected Members there, but for all the Spanish communities. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr Campos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u65	Thank you, President. In this Congress of Deputies we have already discussed several times the financing of the Valencian Community, in particular the under-financing suffered by the Valencian Community, and it has been thanks to proposals precisely from the Socialist Party, two non-legislative proposals signed by Ximo Puig, secretary-general of the PSPV-PSOE, two amendments to the General Budgets of the State with the rank of law and which could therefore initiate this change in the under-financing and also recently an amendment to the reform of the Lofca that is being processed in the Congress. Ximo Puig stated in the discussion of these non-law propositions that in the Valencian Community there are two circumstances that make the situation of our community exceptional. Firstly, per capita income, 12.5 points below the average and, secondly, under-financing, which makes every Valencian receive up to 600 euros less than citizens of other autonomous communities. Puig has already denounced that the solution that the People's Party gives is loans and more loans, which it is good that it lends money to the Valencian Community because the Generalitat has made no one want to finance the Government of the Generalitat, but it is not the solution because the Valencian Community does not receive transfers as other communities do and instead receives loans that, by the way, it has to repay. If we make the sum of under-financing, the elimination of indirect financing through agreements carried out by the Government of Spain, the cuts of more than 50% in investments in productive sectors and civil works - we must remember that compared to 2011 there is a reduction of 50% in investment - someone can say that it has been cut throughout Spain, but what the data says is that it has been cut much more in the Valencian Community than in other communities. Not in vain, the average investment per inhabitant compared to the national average of 238 euros in the Valencian Community remains at only 151 euros per inhabitant. We add cuts, we add mismanagement, waste and corruption of twenty years of the People's Party and an economic model based primarily on construction and we can conclude that what has failed is not the model of self-government, as the People's Party claims indirectly not to recognize that they have been, the managers of self-government in the Valencian Generalitat, the culprits of the situation suffered by the Valencian Community, now aggravated by not correcting that system. I want to make three things clear. The first, the Socialist Party shares the view that the Valencian Community is underfunded and that urgent reform is needed. By the way, the Socialist Party, says the same in the Valencian Courts as in the General Courts, the opposite of what the People's Party does, which says and votes one thing in the Valencian Courts and comes to the General Courts and is unable to carry anything forward. It must be said clearly that the fault of underfunding is not the fault of the crisis, it is the fault of the People's Party Government, which makes decisions and delays precisely this improvement in funding. Secondly, the law must be enforced, and the system must therefore be assessed and funding gaps corrected, because equal access to services and rights must be guaranteed to all communities. In fact, the error is part of the 2001 funding model. It is true that a reform is being carried out in 2009 and that it has been insufficient, but we are starting from the one in 2001, and the one in 2009 has been a significant advance in funding. If this is not acknowledged, there is no consistency or rigour. That is true, the 2009 one, although insufficient, also envisaged that it could be reformed and evaluated, which you are not doing. Therefore, correct the financing, initiate already, as the law itself stated in the seventh additional provision and the third transitional provision, and compete for under-financing. Thirdly, it must be made clear that you are making the situation worse with that model of re-concentration of competences and without an alternative model to waste, friendliness and mismanagement. I would like to end by saying that we cannot blame all of underfunding because socialist governments with less funding carried out the universalization of health in the community, public education, made the public universities that exist in the community, made the Impiva, made the wellness network, the industrial fabric and support to the agri-food sectors. Therefore, take note, comply with the law and correct the mistakes that are leading to Valencians being in worse conditions than other citizens and that we cannot serve our basic public services and therefore do not have access to such equality and access to such public services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Campos. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. On a day like today, April 14, I cannot begin my intervention in this rostrum without remembering that today we live the 84th anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Republic, a model day in the history of Spain, in which in peace and tranquillity there was a major change of regime and the arrival of democracy as spring in that year 1931. I have little time to talk about an issue as important as Valencian funding and I would like to start by saying that this is not the first time this issue has come out in this House. My parliamentary group, in the first debate of the so-called state of the nation, the general policy debate, raised a resolution on a matter of concern to any Valencian or Valencian as is the financing of our territory, of the Generalitat, but we often have the feeling that from outside, beyond Contreras, the Valencian territory is seen as the happy Levant, a Levant that does not correspond to reality. The reality is that we are a poorer land than the average of Spain - it has already been said several times by other speakers -, we are 12.3% below the average of Spain and yet we are net contributors. This already marks a situation of difference which, in fact, in the picture marked by Mr Baldoví leaves us isolated in the quadrant, in the poor part, above the pagans, of the taxpayers. When we add to this the Valencian situation, known in the rest of Spain and even internationally, linked to the image of corruption and waste, it is very complicated to explain to the rest of the Spaniards, to the rest of the political forces of this House, that beyond the problems of corruption, beyond that we have a Government of the Generalitat that has wasted the money, beyond that the People's Party has behaved like what it is, like a corrupt party in Valencia, to which the rest of the People's Party deals with the nose covered when it has to be related to it, beyond all that there is a very serious problem of financing in the Valencian country. We are below average per capita expenditure very clearly - other speakers have said - and that has led us to a situation of brutal indebtedness. We are the autonomous community that has a debt far above others regarding our gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to review some figures from the study carried out by the Committee of Experts, which was unanimously adopted in the Valencian Courts and which share all the groups represented in them. This Commission amounts to approximately EUR 14.8 billion of the debt of the Valencian country due to under-financing. Faced with this, the calculation made by the waste pickers, airports without planes, the City of the Arts, the City of Light and the Agora amount to 1,187 million euros, and the debt for the Valencian Radio Television is another 1.2 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, there are barely EUR 2.4 billion in waste, the waste of the People's Party compared to EUR 14.8 billion of the poor financing system of the Valencian Generalitat, which has harmed the Valencian people. In addition, as has already been said in other interventions, the insufficient investment by the State in the general budgets of the State year after year, which in this legislature has worsened, 50% below the average. Faced with all these problems, we endorse the conclusions and the proposal of the Committee of Experts. In the Group of the Plural Left we believe that a comprehensive reform of the financing system is necessary and specifically for the Valencian Community, for the Valencian Country. Equity, solidarity, sufficiency, fiscal responsibility and institutional loyalty must be the basic criteria. The economic sufficiency of the Valencian Generalitat must be guaranteed and it must be a simple system - the one we have is excessively complicated - and transparent - the current one suffers from a lot of opacity - that guarantees the basic services of the citizenry because what we are talking about in the end, ladies and gentlemen, is not money to waste, to build airports or for other issues, but money to pay for the health, education, schools and social services of the Valencian citizenry. That's what we need the money for. We need a new funding system and here we fully support the three-pronged proposal. A first stretch that guarantees with the basic taxes of the State the basic social services of all citizens, regardless of the territory in which they live. A second section that determines the sufficiency of powers of any autonomous community, financed with the rest of the state's taxes and with the taxes assigned to the autonomous communities. And a third section that is based on the normative capacity of each autonomous community to implement its policies. [[The lady]] It is absolutely basic and necessary to generate a much more transparent system than the current one. In this regard, we share a technical general secretariat that avoids what is happening now, that the data are drawn up with great opacity, even for the tax advisors of the autonomous communities, who have to go to the Fiscal Policy Council with insufficient data. And with regard to the accumulated debts, which has also been commented upon, we share and defend that the logical debt that has arisen from the proper functioning of the institutions must be assumed, but the debt due to underfinancing, that EUR 14 billion, must not be assumed in full, but must be contemplated in a process of compensation with the State and in a process of negotiation, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u68	Mr. Sixto, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u69	I'm done. The debt derived from the embezzlement must be blamed, after the judicial proceedings, on the political leaders for having done so, on those responsible for having managed the Valencian Generalitat for the past twenty years; and the debt derived from contracts with so many friendly companies must be blamed on those same companies that pay the hunts to the advisors of the Valencian Generalitat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u70	Mr. Sixto, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u71	Finally, the interests, along the lines already marked by the Government of Spain, must be removed. In short - and I conclude - it is absolutely necessary to reform the system of financing the autonomous communities. It is absolutely necessary to strengthen the financing of the Valencian Generalitat. The Valencians and the Valencians cannot continue with this system. There has to be reform sooner rather than later simply to ensure our health, our education and our basic social services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u72	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Picó. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u73	Thank you, Madam President. The non-legislative proposal brought to us today by Mr Baldoví highlights the need to review the current system of funding for the autonomous communities of the common system. We can only agree with the purpose of this non-legislative proposal. Since last year, the new funding system had to be agreed with the Autonomous Communities, approved by the General Courts and in force. It has not been so - it is clear - and repeatedly in this Chamber Convergence and Union has made it clear. If this is already more than enough reason to denounce the legal breach which the Government is in - and which now seems to want to urgently correct, according to the statements made by Minister Montoro - it seems to us to be no less serious that through other mechanisms the principle of sufficient funding for the autonomous communities is being broken. For example, it is preferable to finance the autonomous communities through extraordinary systems, such as the system of loans through the Autonomous Liquidity Fund - loans that must also be repaid in the future - rather than through the ordinary system of financing with the approval of a new system of financing. Also, for example, advances on account of the financing system do not take into account the increase in revenue provided for in the State General Budgets. I'll give you an example. The resources that the autonomous communities are receiving through advances have no relation to the evolution of the economy. The reality is that this year 2015 advances are lower than they were received in 2013, when the state is currently increasing tax collection. Between 2013 and 2014, revenue has increased by 4.6% and the General State Budgets forecast an additional increase of 5.4% for this year 2015. On the other hand, as I say, the advances fall by 2.5% for this year. Tax revenues are increased and deliveries on account are decreasing. It's not consistent, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, in recent years the reconfiguration of taxes carried out by the People's Party Government with increases in IRPF, VAT and excise duties - among other taxes - has meant an increase in the collection in the period 2012-2014 of more than 30 billion euros. These EUR 30 billion have involved two things for the autonomous communities: first, they have not been able to benefit from the additional resources that these EUR 30 billion have entailed. Why? Because the current financing system provides for the deduction of the increase of these resources from the sufficiency fund, so the autonomous communities - as I say - have not improved their resources and the state has benefited from the total increase, 30 billion euros in these two years. On the other hand, these increases in taxation have meant an increase in the expenditure of the autonomous communities due to the increased fiscal pressure. I'll give you an example. The exchange of the rate applicable to certain goods and services by increasing the general rate of VAT from 18 % to 21 % and the reduced rate from 8 % to 10 % represent an annual increase in the expenditure of the Generalitat de Catalunya of 198 million euros. In addition, we must add to all this that the payment of the 2014 - 2015 Competitiveness Fund is not advanced, when the needs that the autonomous communities must meet in terms of education, social services and health are today and not in two years' time, when it will become effective. Mr Baldoví also referred to this. We are also experiencing a period of severe reduction in the final income of the autonomous communities from the State through transfers. I give examples from the Generalitat de Catalunya: employment and training programmes are EUR 240 million less; and in education and research, EUR 119 million. I would also like to refer to the fact that, in the case of Catalonia, and in accordance with the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, for the financial year 2008, EUR 759 million, recognised by the bilateral commission State-General of Catalonia, are still to be paid to the Generalitat of Catalonia. If we add the years 2009 and 2010, it amounts to more than 1.6 billion euros. All this from the perspective of income, because from the perspective of the consolidation of expenditure the effort that has been demanded of the autonomous communities has been much greater than that made by the General Administration of the State. In short, a system of financing the autonomous communities that is based on a complex and unbalanced model of autonomous income, with a high margin of discretion in the hands of the State and, on the other hand, with part of the autonomous expenditure strongly influenced by the basic legislation of the central Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u74	Mr. Picó, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u75	I'm done, Madam President. Moreover, in the context of a demanding fiscal consolidation. That is what we believe Mr Baldoví wants to highlight with his non-legislative proposal, rather than sharing or not some of the points that are covered by the text or amendment made by the Socialist Group. Although we do not share the specific funding system - it has already been repeatedly made clear - we do share that a new funding system for the autonomous communities should be promoted. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u76	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Camps has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví, I must admit that you have outdone yourself today. If known was already the lack of rigour and consistency in his speeches in this House, today he has beaten all the records. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví brings to this House a proposal which is based - he says - on a resolution adopted unanimously in the Valencian Courts on 16 October 2013. Ignorance and ignorance? I don't think so. It can't be, can it, Mr. Baldoví? I don't know how to define it, ladies and gentlemen; it will cost you to get out of your astonishment. Mr Baldoví presents and defends a GNP in this House which originates in a resolution of the Valencian Courts which his group voted against. In particular, Mr Francesc Xavier Ferri, Mrs Mireia Mollà, Mr Enric Xavier Morera, Mrs Mònica Oltra, Mr Josep Maria Pañella and Mr Juan Ignacio Ponce voted against. [[Applauds]] I believe that the size of the parliamentary transmutation exercise had not been seen so far. Normally the opposition of these General Courts and the Valencian Courts brings cheating proposals trying to say that there is some inconsistency between what is voted there and what is voted here, but it had never been known that one political group defended in one Parliament what it had rejected in another, which is even rarer if we take into account that the resolution of the Valencian Courts to which you refer was only supported by the People's Parliamentary Group. Either your proposals are badly prepared or I don't know who you're trying to fool. If that said would suffice to discredit your proposal, you give us even more arguments to oppose it, because contrary to what you were defending in this House in a debate that you, I and some other Members had in May 2013, you do not present to debate and vote the literal agreement approved in the Valencian Courts, but it varies as you have understood it to be appropriate. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if you had already come out of your initial astonishment, again be perplexed. Mr Baldoví asks us to support a non-legislative proposal that has its support in a resolution of the Valencian Courts that his political group did not support so that we end up voting in favour of a GNP that largely coincides with one that has already presented its political group in the Valencian Courts and which the People's Party rejected. And are we the incoherent because what we voted against yesterday we also voted against today, and you are the adalid of parliamentary rigour because what you rejected yesterday defends it today? In the end, the People's Party will be consistent, as always, and you have resplendented the parliamentary spurt. Yes, Mr. Baldoví, because you curl the curl, and you do it in a trappy way. [[Applauds]] The resolution adopted at the Valencian Courts called on the Council to request the initiation of the process of reviewing the autonomous financing model and to continue to claim the so-called historical debt owed to the Valencian Community. Al Consell, Mr Baldoví, not to the Congress of Deputies, so that, in turn, he would urge the Government of Spain. And to your knowledge and, if you may, your peace of mind, I will tell you that this has been done: not only has the content of this resolution been forwarded to the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, but the Councillor himself has defended it - and I have here all the records in which it is written, and there are many - Fiscal and Financial Policy Council after Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is where these things are discussed and not elsewhere. Mr Baldoví, the resolution adopted by the Valencian Courts, with the only vote in favour of the People's Party, is being implemented, what cannot be fulfilled is what you ask in your GNP, and not because we do not recognize the under-financing of the Valencian Community, since we did so before you and your party; we did so during the eight years of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's socialist governments, where the billions of euros that you now claim and that you never claimed there were generated. [[Applauds]] We did it and the various governments of the People's Party do it, it does it who speaks to it from this rostrum on behalf of the whole People's Parliamentary Group and it is also done by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Mr Montoro, as he has recently expressed in this House and to the Valencian Community itself. And we will not support his non-legislative proposal, not because we do not agree to revise the current model of autonomous financing, which we are, and I refer to the evidence; we already asked this parliamentary group on 28 May 2013 and, in addition, it is also proposed by the whole People's Party in the autonomous framework programme that we approved last weekend, in particular in case you want to look for it, on page 16. Mr Baldoví, what you are asking for cannot be fulfilled because, as the Government has already said on several occasions, the loss of more than 70 billion tax revenues and the proximity of the elections have not been recommended at this time. Moreover, Mr Baldoví, you are asking for something that cannot be fulfilled - you acknowledge it in your own resolution -. It is already asking for money by 2015, because it already assumes that there will be no revision of the autonomous financing model. But if, moreover, you do not agree with what you are asking for. Or is it not true that your political party defends the economic concert for all as a model of autonomous financing? Mr Morera said it in the Valencian Courts; I have it here, but I do not have time to read it by translating it from Catalan, which is as Mr Morera speaks, although he has also said it on countless occasions in press conferences. If it were for you, for the Group of the European People's Party and for you, good-bye to equity, good-bye to equal opportunities between Spaniards, good-bye to territorial cohesion and good-bye to solidarity. We, on the other hand, believe in equality between people and solidarity between territories. That's the difference between you and me. I would like to refer very briefly, Madam President, to what the Socialist Party, too today, in an exhibition that I would call shameful socialism, claims that we consent to what they have never done and, moreover, as the teacher would say, is impossible. You are asking that from today, with the majority of autonomous parliaments dissolved, on 14 June, when parliaments will be constituted, if they are, a new system be discussed in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and that, sixteen days later, the Government approve it, with the majority of the autonomous governments not elected. Socialists, the last model of funding, with you in the government, took five years to review, and today they want the model to be revised in two and a half months with autonomous elections in the middle. [[Applauds]] Socialists and Mr Baldoví, we no longer ask you for consistency, rigour, seriousness, responsibility, only a little common sense, which should also lead you, ladies and gentlemen, to recognize that we are on the right path, that the Spanish economy is growing, that the Valencian economy is also doing so, that we are creating jobs, that in the last month of March there have been 160,000 more members of Social Security, the best month of March in history, and that above all, Mr Baldoví, there is a community that is called the Valencian Community that is leading that growth, where exports grow - last year record - where tourism shows its strength - also record year: 6.2 million tourists - where the creation of companies records the best figures of its last six years, where our industrial production index is growing 3 points above the Spanish average, where foreign investment increases to exceed 800 million euros, as the confidence of consumers increases for the first time over a hundred, and above all where we lead to the reduction of unemployment in all Spain, the Party in the past seven months and the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past, the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past, the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past and the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past and the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past and the past the past the past the past the past, the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the past the Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u78	Thank you, Mr. Camps. Mr Baldoví, for the sole purpose of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled. Do you accept, Mr Baldoví, any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u79	Yes, those of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Liberation of Leopoldo Lopez. [[File number 162/001173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u81	We move on to the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the liberation of Leopoldo López. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo has the floor for her presentation and defence. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA RAMOS: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to call things by their name since reason begins with the truth. Venezuela is today a dictatorship; neither populist democracy nor hybrid democracy nor formal democracy, a dictatorship. A dictatorship that, in the face of the image that relentlessly returns the mirror of reality - misery, violence, institutional collapse - has decided to remove the last mask. If the consequences were not so dramatic, we would have to thank Nicolás Maduro for this exercise of transparency. Almost two months ago, the mayor of Caracas, Antonio Ledezma, was arrested in an impudently arbitrary manner. More than fifty armed agents broke into his official office, took him without a warrant, locked him in a military prison, without guarantees, without independent courts to go to. His calvary is added to that of the hundred leaders, opponents and students imprisoned for exercising the right to political dissent. It is added to Leopoldo López's, a prisoner more than a year ago, deprived of a fair trial, isolated, vexed. It is added to that of María Corina Machado, stripped of her status as a deputy and persecuted under grotesque accusations. It is added to that of Julio Borges, whom they also intend to remove from the National Assembly and prosecute. It is added to the 14-year-old Kluivert Roa, who died of a police shooting in the head during a protest. With his death there are already forty-three victims of repression in Venezuela. Ladies and gentlemen, the Venezuelan drama directly challenges us, puts us all democrats - and especially those of us who are parliamentarians - against our responsibility. A few weeks ago, the European Parliament spoke unequivocally and solemnly about the political situation in Venezuela. The overwhelming majority of Members voted in favour of calling for an end to the repression; some, however, voted against it. There are politicians in Spain who maintain with chavismo a relationship of anti-democratic intimacy, who have been their advisors and beneficiaries and who dare to challenge Spanish democracy but do not want or cannot condemn the Chapist dictatorship. There are also groups, represented in this House, who strive to justify the violence exercised by the Maduro regime and call the opposition leaders coups. Today they had the opportunity to correct themselves and have chosen to increase their discredit with the introduction of an amendment that I must describe as obscene and fallacious. Some, neo-populists and retro-communists, should apologize to the Venezuelans for the ravages caused by fifteen years of chavismo. Ladies and gentlemen, our vote this afternoon will say more about us than a thousand speeches. To vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal tabled by my group, which we are updating today with an amendment agreed with the Socialist Group, is to vote in favour of democracy; to vote against is to vote against democracy, and to abstain is to abstain from democracy. Today is not a good day for the alchemists of equidistance because there is no middle point between democracy and dictatorship, as there is not between freedom and servitude or between the law and the jungle, and because democracy does not admit adversaries, as there is no political prisoners or judges on the part of the gagged or media. Democracy is and must be defended by those who claim to destroy it, there and here. Venezuelans know that well. Democracy is not a natural state or a property conquered forever. No country is safe from an authoritarian regression. Venezuela was a democracy and ceased to be. It became a dictatorship in the face of the indolent gaze of the rest of the world's democracies. Chile was a rule of law, it ceased to be, and had to pay a high price to regain its freedom. Democracy is powerful but fragile and must be cared for and defended - I insist - against those who intend to destroy it. That calls for a firm commitment like the one that is now before us. Ladies and gentlemen, we Spaniards have an obligation to the Venezuelans. That obligation does not derive from our deep historical, cultural or biographical ties, it is a consequence of our belonging to the same moral community. Defending Venezuelan democracy is defending our own democracy. This has been understood by two of our former government presidents, José María Aznar and Felipe González, individually and now also together in the reconstruction of democracy in Venezuela. Thirty years ago at a historic conference in Cartagena de Indias Mario Vargas Llosa formulated a version of the I accused that remains fully valid and that my group today makes its own. There are still in Europe and here in Spain those who accept or even promote for Latin America what they would never tolerate in their own country; or, in reverse, those who believe that what is good and convenient for themselves - a democratic system with separation of strong representative powers and institutions, without censorship or leadership of any kind - is neither good nor convenient for Cubans, Bolivians or Venezuelans. This double standard does not reveal as much a double morality as the absence of morality, specifically reveals what Vargas Llosa identified as visceral racism, a never formulated but profound prejudice about the ability of some Latin American countries to grant themselves a system of rights and freedoms as that enjoyed by Europeans; as if poverty made men unfit for freedom, as if liberal democracy were a privilege, a luxury of developed countries, as if some were condemned to barbarism and others, we, blessed with civilization. This prejudice, this unbearable feeling of superiority is the one that today with the adoption of this non-law proposal we must contribute to the eradication. In the guest gallery we are accompanied by Venezuelan democrats, representatives of different parties and social groups whom I greet with admiration, with respect and with all the solidarity and affection of my group. [[Applauds]] Let us tell them and all Venezuelans that they have exactly the same right and the exact same capacity as us to live in democracy. Let us tell them that we defend for them the same as we demand for us: a limited government, an independent justice, a plural system of parties, free media, an open society. Let us tell them that we are going to set aside complicit condescension, sterile tacticalism and hollow rhetoric; that we know that it is profitable to be decent, that there is no higher national interest than the defence of principles and that both in foreign and domestic politics the moral is the effective. Let us tell them that we condemn the escalation of repression and violence undertaken by Nicolás Maduro and that we demand the release of all Venezuelan political prisoners, the immediate release of Leopoldo López, Antonio Ledezma, Daniel Ceballos and each of the citizens who suffer in prison for legitimately and peacefully claiming their right to live like us. In short, ladies and gentlemen, let us tell them that we are free and democratic and that we also want democracy and freedom for them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Alvarez de Toledo. Various amendments have been tabled to this proposal. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE - let me refer to the joint amendment - let us indeed call them by their name. If their true desire or their main political objective were scrupulous respect for human rights, for peace, for democracy and for the sovereignty of peoples, they would have had the dignity, especially after the Summit of the Americas this weekend, to withdraw this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, chavismo won eighteen of the nineteen electoral consultations - the last in 2013-, which were supervised by international observers, including Spanish observers, who qualified them as copies. Despite this democratic legitimacy, Venezuela continues to endure intolerable attempts at external interference and destabilizing manoeuvres promoted and organized by those who are unable to accept the opinion of the ballot boxes and respect the sovereignty of the country but who however hypocritically claim to defend them. People and organizations of Venezuela's political opposition have been involved in these maneuvers. Leopoldo López, Antonio Ledezma and other opposition leaders made explicit calls to the people to go out on the street to end the democratically elected government of Nicolás Maduro, as well as in the demonstrations and protests that they encouraged for months and cost the lives of more than 40 people and caused about 900 injuries. [[Rumors]] This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and not the one that you argue and that we have seen and heard many times in the media that are close to you and that manipulate reality with the sole objective of making believe that the Venezuelan Government is a dictatorship to be overthrown. [[Rumors]] How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you approve the law of gags, the practice of suppressing universal justice, and that you support a government that refuses to extradite Francoist charges that committed crimes against humanity... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u84	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u85	I'm done, Madam President. How can we be told that human rights are not respected in Venezuela? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u86	Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u87	You, the main defenders of your constitutional order, however, attack the constitutional order of other countries. [[Rumors]] In Unasur, the Summit of the Americas, even President Obama has had to recognize that dialogue is the only possible path.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u88	Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u89	Add to the dialogue and stop political hypocrisy. [[A Member of Parliament: Come!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[Rumors]] Silence, please, even if they don't share it, silence. For the same group, Mr Tardà. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, today a great exercise of hypocrisy is represented by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which have even taken Aznar and Felipe González, the Aznar of the war and Felipe González of the dirty war and the LAG. [[A lady MP: Hala!-Rumors]] Pure hypocrisy. While accusing Catalan society of wanting to subvert the Spanish constitutional order by our will to be free through democratic means, they impudently endorse those who call for violence and provoke deaths who want to subvert the Bolivian constitutional order. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What a shame!]] It is hypocritical to talk about human rights and refuse to receive the Committee of Guarimbas Victims and continuous coup: 43 deaths, 878 injured persons; 6 of them by the police. All victims of violence by civilians instigated by those who did not accept the election result. We therefore condemn those who violate public peace against the majority of citizens. We also condemn you for instrumentalizing human rights. Why don't they keep that concern about China or Saudi Arabia? Catalan Republicans, committed to democracy, say that a legitimate government born in the polls can only be replaced by the will expressed in elections, never by force, and Maduro won the elections, even if it hurts or even fucks them. [[Protests.-A lady deputy: Hala!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u92	Mr. Tardà, just a moment. [[A Member of Parliament: Out!]] Silence! Mr. Tardà, can you use another word? The language is broad.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u93	Yeah, yeah. It even hurts them. So stop giving the irresponsibility of those who do not accept democracy, of those who called for President Maduro to be overthrown on the street and assume the agreements of the Union of South American Nations, helping to resolve conflicts peacefully and on the basis of dialogue. [[Mr. Martín-Toledano Suárez: And freedom]] This is the scenario of democrats: peace and dialogue, not violence. [[Mr. Martín-Toledano Suárez: And freedom]] And of course freedom, which they don't like.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u94	Quiet. Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the same group, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Rumors]] But well, would you like to leave the speakers?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u95	President, ladies and gentlemen, Amaiur strongly rejects the possibility of arresting politicians for their political activity in any state in the world, be it in Turkey, Morocco, Venezuela or Spain. With regard to Venezuela, it is obvious that there are internal and external pressures to attack the legitimate institutions of that State, as happened in 2002 in that coup d'état which the People's Party supported and justified. From Amaiur we support the measures proposed from Unasur for democracy, dialogue, peace and human rights, all human rights. But it is curious that it is you who bring this initiative here, bearing in mind that every time you ask for the release of imprisoned politicians who are in states that are your trading partners in the world, you always oppose it. In addition, during this term, you have arrested many political refugees and opened up processes for them to be expelled to States where their lives are in danger. They have also denied asylum to political activists such as the Saharan Hassan Aalia, who have been sentenced in Morocco to life imprisonment, and that has given you the same. Therefore, do they really want us to believe that they care about politicians imprisoned in the world? There are also many politicians here in this state who, for their mere political activity, are in prison today, and here we have the example of Arnaldo Otegi and his colleagues, who are in prison for mere political activity. [[Rumors]] With the mere trap argument that everything is ETA, that fallacy, you have imprisoned politicians who have only done political activity. That is why, before asking other States to do anything, they must do their duties here and free Mr Otegi. [[Shows a sign that says: Free Otegi them all]] and his companions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u96	Mr. Iñarritu, your time is up, thank you very much. Abandon the rostrum. [[Rumors]] For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u97	To reduce the tension I notice in the environment a little bit, I take the opportunity to congratulate all the Members and all the Members on this wonderful April 14th Republican. [[Applauds]] Eduardo Galeano said that Latin America had its veins open, and it's true. Today perhaps, after decades of Galeano's writing, we find that Latin America no longer has such open veins, even though you believe it does. We still find in Europe - and we have found here that the speech of the spokesman of the People's Party is a good example of this - old looks that have not adapted to the new Latin America. They are still loaded with neo-colonial gaze and a lot of back yard from the United States, but it turns out that today Latin America cannot be taught lessons; on many occasions we should learn a little bit from it. The debate on this non-legislative proposal can be done by you in the Spanish Congress of Deputies, in the European Parliament and perhaps in the United States Congress, but do you know what happens to you? That they cannot do this debate, nor win it, in any Latin American Parliament, in any, because there are minorities; in some countries, total and absolute minorities. Because the continent has changed, yes, and from that submissive Latin America, from that dominated Latin America, we have moved to a continent that has found its present and its future, and some leaderships like Hugo Chávez have helped build this new future. [[Rumors]] Today, the 'European Union' in Latin America should be heard clearly. To you, who sometimes cite some European resolutions, I tell you to listen to what the Organization of American States says or what Unasur says. Or is it not right for them to listen to the main Latin American integration forums? Instead of listening, read. Speaking of Venezuela, the Permanent Council of the Organization of American States said that a commitment must be made to the defence of democratic institutions and the rule of law in accordance with the OAS Charter and international law. But, if we read what Unasur says, we can also see clearly that the threat of interference with sovereignty and the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States is rejected. Are we interested or not interested, I repeat, in what the main Latin American integration forums say? Well, yes, we're interested. Although we can sometimes hear the initiatives of two former presidents of our country, we have to say that these former presidents, who have presented an initiative led by them, accompanied by former loser presidents from most Latin American countries, the only thing they can lead today are the lobbies that run the turbulent businesses of Spanish transnationals in Latin America. [[Applauds]] Here we will find his leadership, his attitude and his opinion regarding Venezuela. If we scratch a little bit, we'll know why they do it, and I can assure you that democracy shines through their absence. Today it is the United States that has to explain with its attitude its position, its harassment campaigns, its orchestrated campaigns against Venezuela's legitimate government, and that is what happened to the American President at the recent Summit of the Americas in Panama. He had to explain to the Latin American community what he was doing about Venezuela. What they have to do, as Evo Morales said very well, is ask for forgiveness. Yes, honourable Member, apologize for the irresponsible and undemocratic harassment of Venezuela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u98	Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u99	Listen to Evo Morales and ask for forgiveness. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u100	Wait a minute. Quiet, please. Mr. Nuet, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u101	I'm done. You can't give lessons. They are the same as in 2002, with the government presided over by José María Aznar, they supported a coup against Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, and now they come to give us explanations of democracy. What's that? Well, that's...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u102	Mr. Nuet, your time is up. Moreover, you cannot accuse any former President of the Government who is not present in this room.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u103	I'm done now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u104	No, no, no. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u105	If you've asked him!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u106	Yes, yes; it is spoken, but in the time it takes. Finish, Mr. Nuet. [[Rumors]] Finish, Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u107	I'm done. As a result of the leadership of the Venezuelan opposition, we have 43 dead and 900 wounded, apart from numerous innumerable material wreckage. This is not opposition, this is street violence. They're asking for a fair trial, but they're not asking for these criminals to be released. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u108	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] For the Socialist Group, Mr González Cabaña has the floor to defend his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the guests who are in the gallery from Venezuela. I would also like to ask Mr Tardà to withdraw his reference to former President Felipe González, because no court ruling has condemned, as far as I know, former President González today for a dirty war. [[Applauds]] I play dirty yours. I play dirty yours, Mr. Tardà. Mrs Pérez, the call for dialogue that we share is not incompatible with the request for freedom of prisoners who have already exceeded the preventive period that could include Venezuelan legislation, at all; at all. [[The Lord]] Mr. Nuet, if Antonio Ledezma, the mayor of Caracas, is a criminal, you, when you were in Venezuela, did not read the election results of the Caracas mayor's election. [[Applauds]] He was democratically elected, he's no criminal. You're no criminal, then you should also withdraw that reference. He is no criminal, was elected and won democratically the elections in Caracas. I am speaking on behalf of my group to establish our position on this non-legislative proposal, a proposal which in its original wording called for the release of Leopoldo López, but which, through an amendment, which is the one we have signed, is updated to accommodate new manifestations of condemnation of the human rights situation in Venezuela, especially those carried out on 12 March by the European Parliament, and other cases, which have also been produced recently, such as the arrest of Antonio Ledezma, Mayor of Caracas. The facts are well known: In February, a year of the arrest of the leader of Voluntad Popular, Leopoldo López, accused of a plan to destabilize the government of Nicolás Maduro was completed. Leopoldo López has been joined by other prominent members of Venezuela's political opposition: María Corina Machado; Julio Borges; Daniel Ceballos, the mayor of San Cristóbal, or Antonio Ledezma, the mayor of Caracas, arrested in February, along with seven military aviation officers, as they were involved in a recent coup attempt against President Maduro. Since the demonstrations in early 2014, more than 1,700 protesters have been awaiting trial, more than 69 remain incarcerated and more than 40 people have been killed. This situation is not typical of a democratic rule of law in which there is recognition of the principle of the separation of powers and fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration, and is contrary to international humanitarian law, as has been repeatedly demonstrated by international bodies: the UN Human Rights Council, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the European Parliament in March, the Organization of American States, Celac itself and non-governmental organizations such as Amnesty International. This is not the first time that we have spoken in this Parliament about the human rights situation in Venezuela and the position of the Socialist Group has always been the same. The PSOE has and has always had a basic line of foreign policy in the defence of democracy, fundamental rights and public freedoms and therefore condemns illegal arrests. We demand respect for fundamental rights and public freedoms and condemn the use of violence by demonstrators, but above all we advocate a negotiated solution between the Government and opposition to a conflict in Venezuela, a solution that today seems far from close. That is where we would focus on analysing the European Parliament's resolution of 12 March, and I quote: Take the opportunity to establish an inclusive political process, based on consensus and shared responsibility, through a genuine national dialogue, with the meaningful participation of all political forces. It is the Organization of American States and Unasur that are primarily responsible for collaborating to this end. That is the objective that we must all pursue and that we must not lose sight of. I am also addressing those who here and outside here have doubts or have expressed their willingness not to join this parliamentary initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, human rights do not allow nuances. Condemning an abuse such as the illegal detention of these Venezuelan citizens should not pose any problem to those who believe in the democratic rule of law, should not give rise to votes against or abstentions or absences from the Chamber in order not to vote. This has been said in the European Parliament by our colleague, Ramón Jáuregui. We do not explain how some representatives who consider themselves left-wing are unable to condemn a clear case of political repression of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u110	Thank you very much, Mr González Cabaña. Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Paco, because in the last speech you have focused a little bit on the subject of the proposal. The spokesman for the People's Group spoke of anything but the content of the motion. The truth is that it has given me the feeling that what some wanted to do here was an ideological bloc debate. At times he reminded me of the times of the steel curtain. It is true that Mrs Álvarez de Toledo has succeeded, well supported, among others, by Mr Nuet, who has these very clear matters. It is a pity that this tone has resounded, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, in relation to the speech of the People's Group in this House, because I would have liked to have heard the roundness of some of your statements in the Committee on Foreign Affairs during this whole parliamentary term. Of course, the Government and its representatives have been very cautious; I do not know whether the proximity of the elections allows for some lightness. He said a phrase that I loved, that I liked it a lot and that I got very inside: The moral is the effective. What a great phrase! Yeah. That is why I hope that your group will condemn the Armenian genocide with equal roundness. They have the opportunity to do so these days, because day 24 will commemorate the hundred years. Also tell your Government when it does not receive Uyghur or Tibetan opponents for fear of the pressure that China can exert; tell it when it is afraid that Minurso will take on the defence of human rights in the Sahara and has many fears and great care in confronting and telling things to the Moroccan Government. It is a very nice phrase that I hope you will comply with and, in addition, in all cases. In order to begin the debate on the content of the non-legislative proposal, I must say that my group does not question the democratic legitimacy of the Venezuelan Government. The Venezuelan Government, after an election, is institutionally in power with all legitimacy. My group would also like to point out very clearly its rejection of any kind of violence, whether from the institutions themselves or from groups opposed to those institutions. It is not the way to solve things in any country, nor in Venezuela. However, what we are talking about here is specific cases, specific arrests, including those of Mr López and Mr Ledezma. Some representative has previously said that these people are under arrest with all legitimacy for wanting to take down the government on the street. If there is no violence and you are called to protest against the government... Let us remember that of surrounding the Congress, because there are some representatives of some political groups who are here today and who have perfectly defended that position. Why can't that happen also on the streets of any other country? Why can't you protest peacefully on the street? The situation, at least on the ground, in which these people find themselves is not something that has now been invented by any political group in this House. There have been resolutions and demonstrations of all kinds and of bodies with such weight, seriousness and march of neutrality as Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch. For example, Amnesty International has made it very clear that dozens of people have been arbitrarily detained in protests between February and July, that they have been denied access to medical assistance or lawyers and that after a year they remain in pre-trial detention, despite the absence of solid evidence supporting the charges against them. Of course, this is contrary to any international legislation, but also to Venezuelan legislation itself. Leopoldo López, the leader of the opposition party Voluntad Popular, remains in prison despite the lack of evidence supporting the accusations against him, accusations that seemed to obey political motives, as he faces charges of fire and damage on a determination basis. Of course, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention stated that his detention had been arbitrary and urged that he be released as well as other prisoners. Human Rights Watch, the European Parliament, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-General of the OAS, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, the United Nations Human Rights Council and the plenary session of the European Parliament, were delivered on 12 March 2015. We cannot think that all these bodies are against the Venezuelan government or an ideological choice, Mr Nuet, it is not serious to think that. This is happening and we must say this, and also out of loyalty to the Venezuelan Government, we must say, from an appeal to non-violence to all parties, that human rights must be respected and that legislation must be complied with. Therefore, although - I insist - the presentation made by Mrs Álvarez de Toledo did not encourage much to go hand in hand, I will vote in favour of the text, because I agree with the resolution we are going to take and to tell the Venezuelan Government what it is going to say. By the way, Mr Nuet, perhaps now that we are talking about dialogue we are starting to fix things, that Obama is no longer so demonic; if even Mr Castro has said that he is an honest person. Things are moving with Cuba and, incidentally, Mr Maduro also says that everything is possible and that dialogue is necessary. Mr Nuet, the steel curtain, the bloc war ended a long time ago and here we have to take the colors out of one another when the line of respect for human rights is crossed. I hope that we will go this way - I have run out of time, Mr President, and I had a lot more to say, but I am finishing - and, on behalf of my group, I am calling for dialogue, non-violence and respect for Venezuelan legislation in the field of human rights, so that it is complied with, first of all - because this must be the case - by the institutions. My group will very much vote for the non-legislative proposal that is being presented today and the request for these people's freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Lozano has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Venezuelan democratic opposition. I am glad that you can accompany us in this debate on the situation in your country and I trust that we can accompany you there in an equally plural and free debate when Venezuela is a democracy worthy of that name. Those of us here are democratically elected political representatives and we should know better than anyone the value of democracy. We know that when the political representatives, the leaders of the opposition, are imprisoned it is democracy that is threatened and our political obligation is to defend them, because they - Leopoldo López, Mr Ceballos, Mr Ledezma and so many others - now embody the democracy threatened in Venezuela. In recent times, violations of human rights and public freedoms, as well as harassment of political opposition in Venezuela, have continued to increase. More than 40 citizens have been killed by government-affiliated gangs and hundreds of students have been injured and arrested following the peaceful protests in February last year. There is censorship in the media and on the Internet, there is harassment of certain newspapers and audiovisual media, and political and judicial persecution of democratic opposition is systematic. The arrest almost two months ago of the mayor of Caracas, Antonio Ledesma, a mayor who was democratically elected in two consecutive elections, is another step in the radicalization of an increasingly unpopular government, which wants, with repression, to wipe out its own political, economic and social failure, because in addition to the persecution of the political opposition Venezuela is today a socially unsustainable country: it has the highest inflation rate in the world, it is the second most violent country in the world and the only country in Latin America whose economy is in recession. The detention, on the other hand, of Leopoldo López, who has been imprisoned for more than a year, was classified by the United Nations as illegal, arbitrary and carried out for political reasons, that is to say, it is unconditionally and unreservedly about a political prisoner and can only be demanded his immediate release. There are some red lines that when they are crossed by any regime should blow up the alarms of democrats and we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that incarceration of dissidents is a red line that no democrat in Europe should let go unnoticed. That in Venezuela there is a systematic violation of human rights not called UPyD or the People's Party, but important human rights NGOs, some of which have already been mentioned by other spokespersons - Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Reporters Without Borders -, organizations that when they denounce this same thing with respect to Morocco or Saudi Arabia are well seen by those who refuse to condemn the Maduro regime in the European Parliament or in this very Congress of Deputies. That is why it is disappointing, ladies and gentlemen, that there are so different degrees of sensitivity to the violation of human rights according to the ideology of those who suffer from such abuses. There are no good or bad dictatorships, there can be no human rights violations that are justifiable depending on the political colour of the Government that commits them. There should never be an excuse not to sympathize with those who suffer from the abuses of a tyrannical government. It is not enough just to condemn these arrests; it is necessary to carry out concrete actions so that the Government of Nicolás Maduro is aware that in Spain and Europe we take democracy seriously, in our country and also in Venezuela. However, we believe that the small sum of this initiative is too generalistic and even lukewarm. We would like the text that is put to the vote today and that will be the one that will finally be left in the "Diary of Sessions" of this House to live up to the high speech that Mrs Alvarez de Toledo has given. After listening to your speech, you know quite frankly the paragraph that is going to be put to the vote. There was already an initiative in this Congress, which brought my group and for which we achieved a fairly broad consensus, which in many respects went further. That is why we want to make it clear in the "Diary of Sessions" that at least this request to the Government to act should contain three basic points: first, that our Government should be the international leader in the awakening of these political prisoners and in the demand for their release, and that it should do so in all the international bodies where we have a presence; secondly, that the Government should be directly interested in the Venezuelan Government for these political prisoners, as well as for the allegations of human rights violations; thirdly, that the Government should consider all the necessary pressure against the Venezuelan Government, which is responsible for violating human rights and persecuting democratic opposition. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that it is the democratic responsibility of our country, and today in particular of this House, to lead that international response. The Venezuelan Government is slipping dangerously towards a tyrannical regime. Our duty is to support the political opposition. It is a democratic and historic obligation that we have with the Venezuelan people. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Picó has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. I gather the witness of the spokesmen who have preceded me, especially of Don Paco González Cabaña and Don Aitor Esteban. It is important that we have a calm, calm and profound debate on an issue that is of particular concern to us all, as we have seen from the heated debate that we are having. Focus on the subject. The non-legislative proposal brought to us by the People's Parliamentary Group, despite the title, calls for the adoption of an active position of the Government to achieve the liberation of Leopoldo López, Antonio Ledezma, Daniel Ceballos and the other opponents, students and demonstrators arbitrarily imprisoned in Venezuela in the context of the protests initiated in 2014. From the background of the initiative, I would like to highlight the large number of statements made by international bodies and human rights bodies concerning the arrests of all these people, but I would especially like to borrow many of the considerations contained in the European Parliament resolution of 12 March on the situation in Venezuela, which my group very much shares. Mr González Cabaña referred to it and I think it is an important resolution. Furthermore, I would like to recall that this resolution originates from the proposals made by the four largest European parliamentary groups - the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, the Group of European Conservatives and Reformists and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe - with the signature, among others, of our Euro MPs, Mr Francesc Gambus and Mr Ramon Tremosa. This same resolution of the European Parliament urged the Member States to make declarations and take measures to show solidarity with the Venezuelan people. I must tell you that from our perspective the wording proposed by the self-amendment agreed with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and formulated by the proposer group is more appropriate to the spirit of the European Parliament's resolution than the text originally presented by the proposer group, but we believe that other considerations also need to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, in March last year we adopted in this House another non-law proposal in which we showed concern about the serious events of February 2014 in Venezuela and urged the parties to the conflict to respect the universal principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. A year later, we can only show once again our deep concern about the worsening situation in Venezuela, the worsening of the political situation but also of the economic and social situation in the country. A few days ago, we received a human rights report from Amnesty International in the last year in Venezuela, with worrying data in terms of institutional and social security. We must therefore insist - as we did a year ago - on urging the Venezuelan authorities and the opposition to establish a process of dialogue based on consensus and shared responsibility, with the participation of all political and democratic forces, within the framework of democracy, the rule of law and full respect for human rights. The precedent of the so-called table of dialogue between the Government and the opposition, which was interrupted without any agreement, as well as any other formula deemed appropriate, must be re-appealed. More than ever, at the threshold of holding parliamentary elections, it is necessary to encourage the Venezuelan political and social system and, in particular, the Venezuelan authorities to maintain a peaceful dialogue with all the elements of Venezuelan society in order to define the points of convergence that exist and must exist and to allow the political partners to discuss the problems facing the country. We could not stop making these observations. Detentions respond to the situation in Venezuela, a situation where respect for the rule of law and joint and shared responsibility can be called for in order to achieve a necessary political and social dialogue in that country. To conclude my speech, allow me to appeal to consensus on an issue that concerns all the parliamentary groups in this House, as has been demonstrated by this heated debate. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. As two amendments have been tabled, I ask Mrs Álvarez de Toledo what her position is on them. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA RAMOS: Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we are not going to accept the amendment tabled by the Plural Left, Amaiur. Furthermore, if I may, I take this opportunity not to ask, but to demand that Mr Nuet withdraw the very serious accusation against the former President of the Spanish Government, Mr José María Aznar, whom he has accused nothing more and nothing less than a coup. I also take this opportunity to ask Squerra Republicana de Catalunya what credit it has in defending a constitutional regime when it is actively engaged in trying to destroy one of them and boast of doing so. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u117	Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, you can ask me to withdraw it - now we will see what Mr Nuet answers - but you cannot reopen the debate. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA RAMOS: I am not reopening it, but there have been a number of allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u118	If you want to ask Mr Tardà something, tell him, but you cannot reopen the debate. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA RAMOS: I do not want to reopen the debate, but I do want to respond to the repeated, systematic and serious references made by some parliamentary groups, including Amaiur, to whose members I want to say that they have in fact never known what a criminal is. [[Rumors]] They put us in front of us who defend the freedom of Venezuelan political prisoners and are unable to condemn here not arrests, but murders. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u119	We're going in order. First of all, I have the floor with the representative of Amaiur.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm talking about allusions. We did not intend to intervene, but in the face of this serious accusation I would like to tell Mrs Álvarez de Toledo that, if it were for human rights and criminals, we could bring allusions here from her group or herself to the Francoist founder of the People's Party, but we have not done so. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u121	Mr. Iñarritu, answer Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u122	I'm responding. We could talk too...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u123	You could talk about many things, but you must answer what Mrs Álvarez de Toledo has said.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u124	Faced with the falsehood of the accusations, today you have the opportunity to condemn the Franco dictatorship, the founder of your party, Fraga, and all the allusions that you have made and the falsehoods that you continually say against our formation, which is... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u125	You no longer have the floor, Mr Iñarritu. Mr. Tardà, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Only to reaffirm myself in all that, to the extent that they were political opinions at parliamentary level. Nothing more. [[Mr Nuet Pujals asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u128	Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, I do not withdraw it because what I have said is historically true. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u129	Sustained the incident, we moved on to motions. As I said at the Spokesman's Meeting - we have been doubting, because the propositions of law and not law have lasted longer than expected -, we will see two motions tonight, so that you will have an idea of what the time is. Firstly, the Plural Left Group's motion on measures to be taken by the Government to eradicate the increase in discrimination against women in Spain is a matter for the first time. For the defence of the motion, Mrs. De las Heras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this motion we intend to make a number of proposals which, without claiming to be the complete solution to the problems caused by the wrong cut-off policies carried out by the People's Party Government, attempt to address the main and most urgent measures... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u131	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. De las Heras. Please be quiet so that you can listen to Mrs. De las Heras. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u132	Thank you very much, President. As I said, we are trying to address the main and most urgent measures that we believe should be taken to combat the increase in discrimination against women that has occurred in recent years and unjustifiably in our country. [[The lady]] In the context of the inquiry into this motion, we have already had the opportunity to provide the data supporting the great increase in this inequality, the situation of vulnerability and the risk of social exclusion that is affecting more women with the cuts imposed by the People's Party, especially in dependence, education or health, and to condemn them to return to their homes to carry out the care tasks that the People's Party disagrees with the Government. Today in Spain there are 8 million poor people, most of whom are women. There are numerous reports from non-governmental organizations that warn of this situation and that the Government ignores in an irresponsible way, as I am now unaware of in my intervention. The most recent has been done by the Red Cross and shows that of the total number of poor served by this organization in 2014, 89.9 per cent were women, 28.9 per cent of these women were in precarious part-time employment, with serious difficulties in reconciliation, while one third were single-parent families and did not have alimony or external family support. Faced with this situation, ladies and gentlemen, La Izquierda Plural considers this situation to be a social emergency and we believe that the Government, together with the autonomous communities and municipalities... [[Rumors]] Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to keep an intervention on this stand when all of you are talking at once; I say this when I am here and when I am in the chair. Maybe one of the problems this country has is that we don't listen. One of the most serious problems is that we do not listen, but the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in particular, have little interest in doing so. As I said, we are faced with an urgent situation and we need a comprehensive plan to combat the feminization of poverty that guarantees income from basic vital services and at the same time gives these women access to the labour market in order to effectively provide them with economic autonomy. Also, recognizing that conciliation and co-responsibility are key factors that enable the stability and quality of women's employment, we demand once again the Government's compliance with Law 9/2009 of 6 October with the extension of the duration of maternity leave in cases of birth, adoption or reception and the development of a study to quantify, in terms of social and economic profitability, the equalization of maternity and paternity leave to sixteen weeks in a personal and non-transferable manner. We all know that at the moment we have to address inequality between men and women as the main, tragic and shameful cause of macho violence. We therefore believe that the Government cannot further delay the assessment of the level of development and compliance with the Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence, which should be carried out in conjunction with the autonomous communities, municipalities, judicial bodies and women's associations. Furthermore, we believe that, at the same time, the Council of Europe Convention, ratified by Spain, on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, better known as the Istanbul Convention, should already be complied with in order to incorporate other types of violence not covered by the current 2004 law, such as economic violence in the family, in the home or between spouses or couples or ex-partners, regardless of whether they share or do not share a home, and including the consideration of violence against women on gender grounds, which is exercised outside the family sphere. In turn, from La Izquierda Plural we believe that it is essential to recover and strengthen all the resources for the care of victims of macho violence, who have been seriously undermined by the budget cuts imposed by the Government in the municipalities and the autonomous communities. If the People's Party Government really wants to show that equality of opportunity between men and women matters to it, which is certainly very, very difficult, it should start by amending the Education Act that it has adopted in solitary, a law that subsidizes schools that segregate by sex and that has eliminated the subject that guaranteed education in values, equality, non-discrimination and co-responsibility between men and women, committing itself to applying this subject at all stages of education, including university. We also request through this motion the amendment of the Law on Rationalization of the Public Sector and other administrative measures that they have used to end the name, nature, legal regime and functions of the Institute for Women with the sole aim of eliminating the gender approach that gives true meaning to this body. And finally, if the People's Party really wants to renew its erratic policy and its harmful consequences for women's social and civil rights and health, it should immediately hear all the arguments against the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u133	Mrs. De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u134	I'm done. ... of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and of the voluntary termination of pregnancy that we have presented here today by most opposition groups and withdraw the proposed law that it has submitted. I conclude by saying that we will not be able to accept the amendment tabled by the People's Party because it completely distorts our motion but we will accept the vote separately, as the spokesmen of the People's Party and of Convergence and Union have asked us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u135	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. There is indeed an amendment by the Group of the European People's Party. For your defense, Mrs. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u136	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by reiterating clearly and forcefully our strongest condemnation of violence against women and any form of discrimination. Starting from this message and already in the debate on the initiative just presented by Mrs De las Heras, where she reflects the main concerns facing the women of our country, from the People's Parliamentary Group and taking a phrase from her, facts are love, we present an amendment which reflects the points of her motion on which we can agree and which I shall then explain to them. In the amendment tabled, we maintain compliance with the commitments made in the Sub-Commission on the study of the rationalization of hours, the reconciliation of personal, family and work life and co-responsibility. From my group we share their objectives and some of them are already reflected in the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities 2014-2016, in the National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents 2013-2016 and in the new Comprehensive Family Support Plan that develops specific actions in this area. Point 2 of the amendment aims to carry out an assessment of the degree of development and compliance with Organic Law 1/2004. At the moment, the Ministry of Equality is preparing a review of what these ten years of implementation have been. The plenary of the State Observatory on Violence against Women agreed to set up a working group to reflect on the law. Reports are also being collected from the various ministries, violence against women units and private entities providing services in this area. The motion also urges the Government to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which entered into force in general and for Spain on 1 August 2014. This denotes the will of the Spanish State to comply with each and every one of the provisions of the said Convention, in line with what you are requesting. In point 4 of our amendment we propose an alternative wording to point 5 of your motion. With him we intend to maintain the spirit of his approach, while at the same time giving concrete expression to some issue. In other words, the Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence states in its article 19.1 that the organization of services to which women victims of gender violence by the autonomous communities and local corporations are entitled will respond to the principles of continuous care, urgent action, and the specialization of services and professional multidisciplinaryness. Therefore, the development and implementation of policies for the protection of women, who are victims of gender-based violence, implies the necessary concertation of actions between the State, the autonomous communities and local entities. Because of your interpretation, Mrs De las Heras, it is necessary to explain once again that the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration has only one purpose: to ensure the provision of public services to citizens, so that they are financially sustainable, avoiding administrative duplications involving mismanagement of public resources. It is clear then that the law does not prohibit the exercise by municipalities of competences in these other material areas not covered by article 25.2, which means that local corporations that have wanted and want to continue to prioritize policies on gender-based violence can continue to do so. I will give you an example of my municipality, Sanxenxo: with less than 20,000 inhabitants, it has five local police officers affiliated to the VioGen System; a Gender Violence Bureau has been set up, in addition to providing victims with services such as legal advice and psychological care, among others. With this example, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight and thank the work done by many municipalities in Spain in this area. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, with regard to the allocation of resources, the Autonomous Communities are responsible for comprehensive social assistance to victims of gender-based violence and their children. They are responsible for providing the media in the various areas of intervention against gender-based violence. The last point in our amendment concerns the education section and we believe that this is not a curriculum action as you say, but rather that education in values of equality, non-discrimination and co-responsibility between men and women should be included in the curriculum at all stages of education. Mrs De las Heras, I should like to conclude by saying that there are points on which we cannot agree with you, such as that of drawing up a comprehensive plan to combat the feminization of poverty, as poverty and social exclusion are sadly affecting women and men alike today. For this reason, the Government adopted in December 2013 the National Action Plan for Social Inclusion 2013-2016, one of the most ambitious of those adopted in Spain. With regard to the delay in the entry into force of Law 9/2009, it is a temporary suspension, as you know, of the extension of the paternity permit because at the present time the economic circumstances in the country do not allow the increase of social protection. With regard to Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary termination of pregnancy, there has already been a specific debate on this issue today, so to avoid repeating myself, I refer to the issues discussed above. [[Rumors]] I'm done. Mrs De las Heras, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that from the Group of the European People's Party we extend our hand to reach agreements, at least on specific points, so that we can see our commitment in the fight for equality between men and women, in the fight against all forms of discrimination and in the fight against gender-based violence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Lago. First of all, the joint parliamentary group, Mrs Fernández, is setting positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already announced our vote in favour of the motion put forward by the Plural Left and defended by Mrs De las Heras on all her points, but we want to make a special mention - still shocked by the brutal aggression suffered by a woman worker at the Povisa hospital in Vigo, my city - of the aspects related to gender-based violence included in points 3, 4 and 5. Ladies and gentlemen, all of them seem very important to us, especially because they affect the need to push measures from all administrations to act against this social scourge, but in particular we also want to mention what is proposed in point 3, from our very important point of view and which consists of nothing more and nothing less than the need to make an assessment of the degree of development and compliance with the Organic Law 1/2004, of comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, because it is necessary to know to what extent our law - which has been shown to be important to combat this scourge - is being developed, is being promoted by the public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important because we must recognise that the first three budgets of this government have been very negative in combating gender-based violence, as they have reduced the government's economic contribution by more than 22%. It is true that the intensity of the debate on this issue in recent months has enabled the Government not only to increase the budgets in this area in a very timid manner in 2015, but also to increase measures related to advertising aspects to combat this scourge. In any case, from our point of view, it is completely insufficient in a matter in which we cannot relax, and it is that we must continually promote the measures envisaged in the law, and even many more, and that education-related measures cannot be ignored, aspects which are reflected in this 1/2004 law and which are fundamental for the future. Today we are not alarmed by facts such as the one I mentioned earlier or by the more than nine women who, victims of gender-based violence, have died killed in this year of 2015, but we are extremely concerned and very concerned about what we see daily in the relations between our young people, between adolescents with extremely Machist attitudes, where gender-based violence manifests itself in many ways. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we share what is proposed in this motion and we also want to mention point 1 of it because it is necessary to combat this feminization of poverty, which is demonstrated in such strong data that 69% of non-contributory pensions are collected by women, but above all this feminization of poverty is also manifested in the tangible and evident fact, even by European authorities, of the impoverishment of minors in the Spanish State. That is why we are happy to take part in the defence of this motion, because we understand that it is important that these measures be taken forward. We regret that they cannot all be adopted, but, while the point vote has been requested, we hope that at least some of them will be adopted. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. For the Basque Group, Mrs Sánchez Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u140	President, ladies and gentlemen, it's more like that. I guess we all share it, don't we? Undoubtedly, equality, in addition to a human right, is a fundamental factor, a vital factor for the human, social and economic development of societies. After listening to Deputy De las Heras and Minister Alonso, I sincerely believe that we share a clear vision of the vulnerability of our rights, of women's rights, and we share the need to exercise constant vigilance so as not to allow the slightest regression in these troubled times. We could recognize - although I acknowledge that with caution - and say that we are starting from a common basic diagnosis, which a priori, and from the disenchanting everyday life of this House, is not a small thing. However, and leaving aside battles of numbers and qualified letters and reports and statistics, too many partisan assessments are observed that are blurring the essentials. And it is easy to see, when we go down to the sand of strategies and projects, when we go to concrete things, to the reality of policies, that distances are increased and increased to make equality a bold tool that takes us away from the original objective, to make everything impossible, that it is not only to preserve the rights that we have taken so many years to achieve but to advance from the conviction towards full equality between men and women. Furthermore, we must not forget that equality is not granted by genetics or nature, equality is achieved by working on a day-to-day basis, developing long-term strategies and lines of action, and equality is achieved above all by changing culture, culture with capitals, the way men and women are viewed in society. I believe - despite what has been said - that it is fair to acknowledge the tone and tone shown by the Minister during the debate on the interpellations and to thank him for calling for consensus and dialogue. The same is true of the statement made by the spokesman for the People's Group in defence of the amendment which he has made to this initiative. The truth is that it has been a microoasis in the desert of incommunicado that is being this legislature. Even not hidden that we could empathize with a part of the bottom of the minister's speech to the Equality Commission to set out the general outlines of his ministry's policy. I also recognize the work of the Equality Secretariat, but it is that equality is much more than that, and that is why we cannot share its assessment, the Minister's assessment, about the involvement of his Government, of Mr Rajoy's Government, in this matter, at least to this day, because, as the Member of the Heres in the debate on the interpellation, facts are loves, to which I would add that the movement is proving to be moving, and walking is moving forward without going backwards. Ladies and gentlemen, to go back, no matter how hard it sounds, is to cut back, as the People's Party Government has done, to break down some of the basic pillars of the rule of law: serious repercussions on education, health and the social protection system, which have further aggravated suffering, and in turn the impact of the economic crisis on the situation of women. To back off is also not to act on such alarming signals as, for example, the reversal of the perception of a good part of the youth regarding the control of the couple or the increasing sexualization of girls and young women in advertising and in the media. To back off is not to counteract the pressure of certain sectors of society in the face of progress in equality. To back off is also to allow in some way the trivialization or minimization of the impact of violence against women. Retroceding is also cutting to the point of turning public budgets to promote equality, despite this slight increase in 2015. Retroceding is also calcining the equality services of the municipalities - I think the Law on Public Administrations is very clear on this issue -. Retroceding is also a failure to provide education in values in the formative cycles, as Mrs De las Heras said, in co-responsibility, affective-sexual education and preventive education of gender-based violence. To go back, ladies and gentlemen, is to meet the anachronistic requirements of the most important sectors of Spanish society. This is a part, probably the negative, of the balance sheet and the consequences of the management of the People's Party. For a sample, it's worth a button. This same afternoon we attended the debate on the consideration of a proposal for a law of the People's Party in this House, which proposes an amendment, in my unwarranted opinion, of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the Interruption of Pregnancy, which violates women, without a technical basis that justifies it, against the social majority, in response to the pressures of certain lobbies that I prefer not to quote and appeal to a misunderstanding right to life. I can't help but tell them that giving life is much more than giving birth or giving birth, as they prefer. A son or daughter is a human project, a life project that requires a very high dedication. I won't spread anymore. In any case, I do want to say that we are going to vote in favour of the initiative put forward by the Plural Left, although it is true that it is too extensive in my opinion and that it does not allow us to influence issues as relevant as gender-based violence, which require differential treatment. In conclusion, we would also like to give a vote of confidence to Minister Alonso and from here show our offer to work together, always from respect for our competences, to the competences of the Basque Autonomous Community. This concludes my intervention. As I was telling you, our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u142	Thank you, President. The truth is that our group agrees with the diagnosis of this initiative presented by Mrs De las Heras on behalf of the Plural Left. We agree - one cannot deny - that there is discrimination that particularly affects women because in Spain there is more and more inequality, and inequality always ends up affecting those who are socially more dependent, more unequal, and that is called discrimination. We therefore agree with the diagnosis, the need for a comprehensive plan to eradicate such discrimination. Naturally, if one starts to enter into each of the proposals, we could - in fact, we are - fully agree on the points raised in most of the points: points 1, 2, 3, 6, 8; therefore, not only on the definition of this need, on reflection and diagnosis, but also on the concrete measures proposed. We have some doubt, probably derived from the wording, as to point 5 and point 7. It seems to me that point 5 has an equivocal wording because the points of municipal assistance, the proximity of the municipalities, the municipalities with regard to women is a value, of course, but it seems to us that we must also give coherence, and autonomy has to act, so that equal treatment is guaranteed to all women, apart from the municipality in which they reside. I very much agree that the municipalities implement the law, that they have the application of competence, but the autonomous community should act to ensure that coherence and equality. That is why I think it is rather a drafting problem and not a substantive one; I think we agree with the idea that is being expressed. The same applies to point 7. It seems to us that it has a somewhat tangled wording which could lead us to the conclusion that it is exclusively a matter of uniting the former Women's Institute with the current Women's and Equality Institute, but I believe that you and I agree that the words that define one institution or the other in this case are the least important, that the search for equality of opportunity does not have to be in any way incompatible with the search for equality and the defence of equality in general, and in particular of women. I therefore understand that these issues, which are, in our view, rather drafting, which we would like to be able to raise in a different way, do not, in the final analysis, distort or dilute the importance of the motion and the approach that you have made, and that is why we will vote affirmatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Convergence and Union group, Mrs Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Speaker of the Plural Left, I should like to begin by saying that we would like to ask you, as some parliamentary group has already done, to vote on points in your motion because there is point 8. As you know, when we discussed the People's Party's proposal for a law, Convergence i Unió in the matter of abortion does not maintain the discipline of voting, everyone maintains their position; therefore we ask for the point vote. I thank him because, through his gesture, he tells me that it will be so. On the part of Convergence and Union we have nothing to object to what this motion raises. We understand that these are reasonable measures, reasonable measures, and we share the direction they pursue, which is the basis of the problem: to eradicate the basic reasons that allow inequalities between men and women to be perpetuated. We find it interesting and also important that a comprehensive plan to combat the feminization of poverty be addressed. The crisis has severely affected the conditions of equality that were already unequal in women, so the development of a comprehensive plan to combat the feminization of poverty would force us to address some of the underlying problems in all this fact that is not structural but that it is a fact that can be changed with political will not to tolerate inequality, so that there is no further imbalance in wages and salaries or that we continue to suffer enormously from the consequences of this crisis as a result of being women. It is a very good idea to maintain the defence of the elaboration of a comprehensive plan to combat feminization, as this would allow us to open the debate. From the point of view of Convergence i Unió we emphasize once again what was one of the reasons for rejection of the Unit Law, a law that was born with the gender impact report with the qualification of very poor because it did not provide resources and kept women as the main caregivers; it did not give priority to the figure that exists in the law of the professional caregiver, to prioritise the care of the professional caregiver, and what was done was simply to remunerate the person who did the main care work, which was the woman, so that he could receive some kind of remuneration, obliging her to remain in the care of the dependents of the family and thus resigning from exercising his profession outside the home in case he had it. We believe that a revision of the Unit Act would allow us to focus on the evils that we carry and that cause this feminization of poverty. Nothing to say to point 2, as we are fervent advocates of law enforcement in the matter of paternity and maternity leave. We have been pending since 2011 that something that the law recognizes comes into force, which is that parents are entitled to four weeks of paternity leave. Why don't we do it? We have already stated in this rostrum as active and passive on the part of our group that they are not economic reasons because the balance allows it, because the Government itself told us that there was enough capital to be able to deal with these two weeks, of what is a political will, to begin to remove these obstacles that the law recognizes are necessary in order to be able to advance co-responsibility, which is also the basis of equality. The conclusions of the subcommission of study of the rationalization of schedules sleep the sleep of the righteous for a lot of months. I believe that out of respect no longer these women parliamentarians, who also contribute to the subcommission, but all the participants who brought us their loyal knowledge and understanding and told us how we should move forward in order to make rationalization, co-responsibility and conciliation a reality, of course, we are going to assume that parliamentary mandate at once. In addition, I recall that this issue remains to be discussed in plenary. We would like this plenary to see this debate so that we can become aware of the importance of eradicating these ancient uses of time that allow us to perpetuate gender roles and stereotypes. I fully agree with the Istanbul Convention. What the hell! This is accompanied by a thorough assessment of the comprehensive law against gender-based violence because the concepts contained in the Istanbul Convention leave, in our view, the comprehensive law against gender-based violence embedded in that violence perpetrated within the couple.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u145	Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u146	We understand that the gender differences that motivate this gender superiority, violence against women, should not only be incardinated, because in fact it does not happen, in those women who have or have had a partner. To conclude, simply tell him that I thank him for the point vote and that the vote by Convergence i Unió will be favourable, respecting the freedom of vote of the last point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Ramírez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, my group basically agrees with the motion put forward by the Plural Left because we share, like other groups and organizations, the view that our country has experienced a serious setback in terms of equality as a result of the policies carried out by the People's Party or, which is the same, that women have not only endured the worst part of the crisis, but are today in a worse position than men in terms of their rights and freedoms than before. That is, not only in absolute terms, but also in relative terms, women and equality have it much worse today. The crisis has been the pretext for re-adjusting at the expense of both a social model, which is now more in tune with the aspirations of the People's Party. You will be congratulated, but most of the women in this country, and those who defend equality, are not. The People's Group and the Government have legislated and ruled against women's rights and freedoms and, therefore, equality as a collective aspiration; this is reflected in a multitude of international bodies in case the reality is not sufficiently eloquent for you. However, I do not know whether it is a product of hypocrisy or some political schizophrenia or certainly of the mere electoral tactics to which we are accustomed, the truth is that you, especially outside the parliamentary or government sphere and therefore in a superficial way, without assuming the effective consequences of any political commitment, sometimes try to pay attention to the discourse of equality in a very curious way. Notice, in this kind of camouflage exercise, it is striking to hear you even boast of the achievements made by our country in the field of equality, which are fundamentally attributable to socialist stages. Presuming, of course, then doing the opposite. They even praise laws that now qualify as strategic, such as the Equality Act, which until recently you yourselves have had in the pinnacle because it was you who brought an appeal before the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what I'm saying is true. Very recent interventions by high officials of the ministry, which I remember closely, could cause a feeling of mirage, phenomenon, on the other hand, as you all know, false. But that layer of egalitarian varnish does not withstand the slightest analysis if we test its policies for contrast. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not work, it does not apply with statements set with common places. You come up here, as the minister did, to proclaim an egalitarian vocation, but it is not enough, it is, look, counterproductive, because it can give the feeling that you are doing everything you can in the matter of equality, but that you are not moving forward, and you are even going backwards, because in reality we are faced with a useless task, with an unattainable objective. It has already been said, inequality is not structural, equality is therefore not an unattainable objective. Of course it is not; it is the inconsistency of their real commitment to equality and the harmfulness of their role as government that causes this regression in the area of equality. It is not that there is a stagnation, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been a genuine explicit and implicit involution as far as equality is concerned in our country. Or do your ladies and gentlemen think that the labour reform they have adopted is gender neutral? You should know that no, of course you know that no, but just in case I'm going to remind you with some data. The current labour regulations are expelling women from the labour market and for the first time in 40 years are decreasing the labour force rate and the female employment rate, not to mention the number of unemployed women, and above all the government officials say that the first axis of their equality policies is employment - less badly - and forget that it is not that employment alone ends, that it does not end, with inequality, but that moreover the working reality of women integrates important elements of discrimination and inequality: greater precariousness for women workers, difficulties of reconciliation, feminized labour poverty - already said here -, wage gap, lower promotion, lower pensions, etc. Moreover, not only in the workplace but in many other areas, the bias of their reforms, their counter-reforms, the burden against equality and against women: educational reform, local reform, the dismantling of social policies, the system of dependency. They didn't know, they didn't think about it, or they just assumed it as a side effect. There are also budget cuts, not only on an equal footing, ladies and gentlemen, but what is more serious, in the fight against gender-based violence or disappearance - yes, the names, of course they matter - of institutional and political resources specific to equality, such as the Women's Institute, which is a symbol and an architect of the progress made in our country. Do you really think you can hold a speech in favor of equality with this service sheet?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u149	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u150	I'm done. In the crusade they have against the right to abortion they have not been able to with the elderly and want to impose their morale, because that is what it is about, the minors, who are granted the right to marry and, then, yes, to be mothers. If they can be, it will be because they can decide it, and if they have the ability to decide that yes, where is the problem to decide that no? It's an ideological issue. All this and much more goes against progress on equality not only legal, but symbolic. By the way, economics is also a bad option, inequality is very unprofitable.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u151	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u152	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, if it were the result of clumsiness and not the intention, we would ask you that since you do not know how to make progress on equality, at least you do not cause more inequality and discrimination, but we are very afraid that even if you devote what remains of the legislature to trying to repair it, you will not return to the exit position. Too bad it's not even a consolation that electoralism is going to postpone some counter-reforms and attacks on women's freedom of rights...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u153	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u154	...like the one that's been discussed here today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mrs De las Heras, I have deduced from your speech that you do not accept the amendment, but yes, the vote on each of the points. Is that right? [[Consent]] That's how it's gonna be done. Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the serious setbacks that are being caused by the rights and freedoms of women and to convert equal opportunities between men and women into their main task. [[File number 173/000201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u156	We turn to the second motion, by the Socialist Group, on the measures the Government intends to take to prevent the serious setbacks that it is causing in the rights and freedoms of women and to make equal opportunities between men and women its main focus. For your presentation and defense, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u157	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of my parliamentary group to defend this motion as a result of the urgent inquiry that took place on 11 March. First of all, today, 14 April, I would like to pay a humble and sincere tribute to the Second Spanish Republic on its 84th anniversary. [[Applauds]] It was precisely in the Second Republic that Spanish women began to obtain the citizenship rights that had been denied to them until then. The serious setback suffered by women's rights and freedoms in these three years of People's Party government - I find it difficult to say - will also make up a small black passage in our history. To talk about equality one must believe it, one must live it, one must exercise it, and from politics one must worry and take care. That is precisely what, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you have not done in these three years. They are doing so now that the elections are approaching and that worries us all, and I think that you, parliamentary women of the People's Party, too, because you are suffering the disaffection of women and you are feeling it. We urge you in this motion - and I am not going to go too far - to implement urgently the Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence. It was the first in our environment, it was innovative, it was important. We have completed ten years of implementation and we find that over the past three years there has been a serious setback due to a lack of resources, a lack of resources and not because you are not concerned because I am sure that you are equally concerned about the whole House. It has retreated for lack of resources and you must have fought with your Government to obtain those resources, which are essential for the fight against gender-based violence. Either they take immediate action, replenishing budgets and providing the necessary means for the implementation of this law, or women will continue to be murdered in the face of a silence that is ultimately complicit, ladies and gentlemen. It is also essential that the Organic Law of 22 March 2007, which guarantees the principle of the balanced presence of women and men in positions of responsibility, both in the public administrations - there is almost equal representation - and in the boards of directors of large public enterprises and those listed in the Stock Exchange, will finally become effective. That does not cost money, ladies and gentlemen; press the Government to enforce that law. We have a serious problem with women's participation in the labour market and we also have a wage gap between men and women, which is not only unfair, but also undermines the most basic principles of equality. It's a 24% gap. It's intolerable. You've said you're going to bring a law. Bring it in soon so it can get started as soon as possible. The invisible work of women in maintaining their homes and children makes women even more invisible. Of course, the care economy, the so-called people's economy, is not accounted for in GDP; it is not accounted for because there is no economic transaction. But could anyone with common sense refute that this invisible work that women do does not contribute to the economy of a country? No one could refute it, no one. We know that the monetary and financial economy has always abandoned women. This is not new, but that in the political discourse there is not even a mention is striking and very significant, especially given that prostitution is counted in GDP. [[Applauds]] Its cuts in dependence, all the destruction of wage labour that has led to these cuts and that condemns thousands of women again to the invisible work that involves being out of the labour market, is the sole responsibility of the cuts in dependence. Press the Government, women parliamentarians of the People's Party; it is essential to do so. I will hardly refer to the proposal for a law that they have brought on the subject of the voluntary termination of the pregnancy of the younger women. It's been discussed. My parliamentary group only asks once again that we should not be women, especially young women - I am not speaking for myself, but for those who follow us, for the young women, for whom they have to take the witness - a commodity for you, an electoral commodity. In conclusion, I would like to make some reflections. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, sometimes I think you have a misconception of the women of our country. It's not worth what I like about the woman, a woman who once said someone from her party. I am sure they cannot share it, as we cannot share it most of the women in this House and the women outside, who are the really important ones. Women are not merchandise, we are not women, we are women; we are simply women. We are a basic pillar of social change and powerful subjects of that change. We are strong, resilient and very fighting. We have fought and suffered a lot to get to talk in this rostrum and we will never leave it without defending what we have fought for so much. For many of us - for you too, why not? - the rostrum of this house means giving voice to the thousands of women who do not have it and we use it for that, ladies and gentlemen, to tell them to work and stop the abortion reform.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u158	Mrs. White, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u159	They convince the Government to stop playing with women's work and not to attack women's rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u160	Mrs. White.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u161	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u162	No, no, It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u163	I'm done. If you don't, we'll have to do others. It'd be good if we started doing it. We are going to vote no to your amendment, and we feel it infinitely, because it does not contribute anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you with the best intention, because we are all women and, in the end, we are fighting for the same...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u164	Mrs. White.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u165	... because it is much more what unites us than what separates us, that they fight for all these reforms to be carried out before the end of the legislature. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. We move on to the amendment put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodriguez Maniega.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Blanco, that's too bad! What a missed opportunity to reach an agreement! Ladies and gentlemen, is Spanish society today more egalitarian than it was three years ago? Rotately, yes. It is more egalitarian and we work to make it even more so in 2016, printing more speed to the changes and consolidating the achievements achieved to date. That is why I ask your ladies and gentlemen to be more rigorous in their judgments of value and that neither sectarianism nor prejudice prevent them from recognizing the measures that have been taken in this legislature in favour of real equality or lead them to deny progress, because not recognizing what is well done deprives them of credibility in criticism. If the crisis is the element that underpins the field of inequality, the best tool we have at our disposal to achieve an equal society is employment. In 2014, the Government launched the National Equal Opportunities Plan 2014-2016, with more than €3,150 million; 7 out of every 10 euros dedicated to the strategic plan go to employment and conciliation, while when you governed 57% of your plans it was dedicated to external action. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 7 out of EUR 10 for, among other things, promoting employment, reducing the so-called unfair wage gap, increasing the presence of women in decision-making positions and allocating efforts and programmes to address women in particular vulnerable situations. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-legislative proposal that you are bringing to the debate is very extensive. They are asking for many things, but many of the measures they are asking for are already under way. They called, for example, for a shock strategy for the effective implementation of Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, but it was obvious that the Government had already adopted the first national strategy for the eradication of violence against women in the summer of 2012. As her own name indicates, she's the first in ten years. Although it was a measure of binding compliance for the governments, you, who ruled before us, never managed to develop it, and it has had to be a People's Party government that sets it up; therefore, lessons from the just. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mrs Blanco, in this matter, as in so many others, you should keep your criticisms in the realm of prudence. In politics it must not be all about looking for a headline, because if that were the main goal we could have easily achieved it this week and in capital letters. You have given us some important reasons for this, but what we are looking for is not confrontation, but union and negotiation, reaching agreements with you and with the rest of the forces of this House, with all the groups that want to join, and sending a clear message to women victims of gender violence, the same message that the President of the Government has expressed with absolute roundness: you are not alone, there is a way out against gender violence. [[Applauds]] The fight against gender-based violence is not a monopoly of you or any political party, it is not a monopoly of one ideology or another, it is the struggle of all, of the whole society united against the abusers and the different forms of violence against women. [[The Lord]] Many of the things you claim, Mrs. Blanco - I insist - are already underway. For example, in the area of education, there is already cross-cutting treatment across the curriculum of values, such as equality, non-discrimination and co-responsibility, and the prevention of gender-based violence has been introduced as a principle of the education system at all stages. They call for greater protection and assistance for children who are victims of gender-based violence, when the relevant amendments have already been made to the draft laws amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. They are calling for a bill on equal pay when they are aware that the Government is already working and finalizing a special plan for equality of women and men in the workplace and against wage discrimination with the aim of increasing women's participation in the labour market and reducing the wage gap. Together with employment and the fight against wage inequalities, the other major area of our Government's work on equality is the reconciliation of personal, work and family life, in which progress is being made with greater flexibility in employment, for example by regulating telework for the first time or by extending the reduction in working hours for parents with children up to twelve years of age. They talk about women living in rural areas and calling for support for them, but we have moved ahead with their requests. Our Government is already developing programmes that, for example, promote entrepreneurship and access to funding lines. They also want to promote the growth of women in governing bodies of rural cooperatives, agricultural organizations, etc.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u168	Mrs. Rodriguez Maniega, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u169	I'm finishing up. For each request I could point out one or more measures that have already been put in place by this Government, but I have only a few minutes left and the President asks me to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement with the facts. Progress has been made and further progress is being made and work is being done to make today's Spanish society more egalitarian. Do not deny the evidence because, as Winston Churchill said, the truth is incontrovertible, ignorance can mock it, malice can distort it, but there it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez Maniega. Position-fixing turn. For the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. That this afternoon we have on the table two motions from two different groups related to the impulse of measures to work in the direction of improving gender equality in our society is not random, but it shows the concern that exists in our society of retrogression, and I say retrogression and not just stagnation,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u172	I'm sorry, Mrs. Fernández. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u173	... on gender equality. When we are talking about gender equality, it is not only because there are still a number of differences, such as those reflected in the wage aspect, where recent studies show that this 22 % difference in wages continues to be maintained, but because, as a result or as a justification in the crisis, we have fallen back in many respects in relation to the participation of women in the world of work, in society in general, and, above all, because we have acted in the direction of relocating women to their main activity, to the intramurals of their homes, to the intramurals of domestic life. Not only are the difficulties in the world of work, they are the great difficulties that we face in today's society in order to be able to care for people with disabilities, children, etc., as a result of policies of cuts in social services, health care, etc. This is forcing women to resume a series of activities that, fortunately, were being faced by the public authorities in different areas. Ladies and gentlemen, if I mentioned earlier that in the first three years of the State's budget, gender-based violence was reduced by 22 %, as far as comprehensive equality policies are concerned, this government has budgetedly reduced the amounts allocated to this issue by more than 50 %. It may seem that money can be left in the fight for equality and that other issues are important, but it is important ideological issues, such as understanding that men and women are equal and, therefore, we must have equal opportunities to access all those issues that develop in life, and it is also important that the public authorities make available the necessary budgets to break these difficulties and achieve these objectives of equality. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if I have previously expressed our support for the motion put forward by the Plural Left, we now have our vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, because the fight for equality cannot allow us to take steps backwards. We know that this struggle has had too many steps back in history and that at this time it is also so. That is why our group supports these initiatives, because we need to be strengthened in the idea of continuing to work towards achieving gender equality in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mrs Sánchez Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u175	Thank you, President. I am speaking briefly, as I believe that the position of the Basque Group in the previous motion has been made clear. I have to admit that, unlike the previous initiative, the debate on the question between Mrs Montón and Mr Alonso gave me a sweet, sour taste. I saw the use of equality in its broadest extent as a partisan and electoral tool. In the end, it was a pimpampum debate in which the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House, on such a transcendental issue, seemed to be invited by stone. And what was my surprise when, when I saw the operative part of the Socialist Group's initiative, I appreciated or had the feeling - and perceptions are not always objective - that it fully reflected the Socialist Party's electoral programme. Even so, and despite that, I have to admit that our position on this initiative was going to be abstention, but Mrs Blanco has convinced me. It seems to me that he has had an adjusted intervention, not so the spokesman of the People's Group - and I very much respect the position he has maintained - who has sang a song to the greatness of popular management, an issue that, as I have already said, we do not share. That is all I had to say to them, so our vote will be in favour of the Socialist initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u177	Thank you, President. Indeed, as my colleague from the Basque Group has said, in the previous debate we have been able to raise our position - I have done so on behalf of my group - on a very similar issue to that brought to us by the Socialist Group. The same is true of me in this motion: it is a diagnosis that my group shares: to eradicate inequality, to work in favour of equality, in this case discrimination against women, is an outstanding subject. It is true that many things have been done, but it is also true that much remains to be done. There are some issues raised in this motion which coincide with what was also raised by the motion of the Plural Left, which has to do with the municipal competence which, as I said to Mrs De las Heras, raises the question - I think it will be a matter of drafting - of whether the Socialist Group does not share with us the need for the municipalities to be able to exercise competence, but there must be a higher body - the autonomous communities - to ensure equal treatment, in this case equal treatment, for all women, which does not depend solely on the situation of each municipality, on the majority of each municipality or on the policies of each municipality, that the rights which are recognised, in any case, are exercised on an equal footing by all women on the margins of which they exercise competence. We have a partial discrepancy in the wording of point 1.g). We would like to see a separate vote, at least on this point. In any case, and if we do not vote separately, our vote will be in favour of the motion; if not, we may have to abstain because the two sides are too explicit. I understand that you want to make it explicit. It has not been so in the wording of the text of the Plural Left and I would like to be able to vote separately. If we do not vote separately, my group will also reserve its vote. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Please, I beg your silence. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for the Plural Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u179	President, I will do so from the seat to express our vote very briefly in favour of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group because, as has become clear, many of the points they propose fully coincide with those we have proposed in the motion discussed earlier by my group. I wanted to emphasize point (e) where it says: measures to give economic status and to account for family and household care tasks within the gross domestic product, and not, as the Government has done, prostitution. Especially this one because we forgot to put it in our group and we assumed it as ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. From my parliamentary group, on this occasion, we are going to abstain from this motion tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We do not see it with the same eyes as the spokesman for the Plural Left because we understand that it does not look like the one his group has put forward, since in the motion for the Plural Left we have seen concrete and objectively feasible measures since they directly affected aseptically, in the sense that they were moving towards equality or proposed issues in which, at the very least, we could intervene in raising any reforms to improve and advance the path of equality. We are not so comfortable with the motion put forward by the Socialist Group. We are in favour of and in a radical way evaluating this comprehensive law against violence against women. We understand that we must open our eyes to what the Istanbul Convention is, something that you openly recognized in your motion to introduce into this assessment of the comprehensive law all those aspects that affect violence against women, just because they are women and not just because they are women with partners or ex-partners. We therefore believe that we need to go a step further in the preparation of the assessment of the comprehensive law. Furthermore, at the request of our group, what we did was to urge the Government, unanimously... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u182	I'm sorry, Mrs. Ciuro. Please, I beg your silence. She's finishing up Mrs. Ciuro, please take care of her.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just finishing up because the hour is rushing. I want to say that from our group in the Commission we call on the Government to evaluate the comprehensive law. We hope that the parliamentary groups will be able to be a party in order to be able to make the assessment of this law, since it has announced the spokesman of the People's Group who was working on it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we should address a reform of this law, an assessment of this law, to see what measures we can take to try to re-educate these abusers, who are, what kind of measures we can take towards these abusers who insist on harming women to the level of violence, so that we can find the way to work on their reintegration, to get rid of these sexist positions and at the end of everything to end the perpetuation of roles and stereotypes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mrs Blanco, although it seems to me that you have already said so, I ask you formally whether you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank all the groups for their interventions, including the spokesman for the People's Group. We have already announced that we do not accept the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party. Furthermore, we want the whole bloc to be voted on, as it is reflected in the motion. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kindness this afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. As you said, this will be done. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u187	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Dona Laia Ortiz Castellví, I ask Don Josep Pérez Moya if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u188	I promise you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u189	Don Josep Pérez Moya has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, last March Don Luis de Torres Gómez, Member of the People's Party, died in this House during four legislatures and Senator in the third. I believe that many of us remember Luis de Torres for his political work, but also for his affable and always conciliatory character. I would therefore like to convey our feeling of grief to their families. Rest in peace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u190	We begin the voting. It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Organic Socialist Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Criminal Code. Two votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 324 plus 2 telematics votes, 326; in favour, 141 plus 1 telematics vote, 142; against, 182 plus 1 telematics vote, 183; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u191	It's not taken into consideration. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, an organization to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacity in the voluntary suspension of the workplace. [[File number 122/000195]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u192	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Organic People's Parliamentary Group to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 2 telematics votes, 324; in favour, 183 plus 1 telematics vote, 184; against, 135 plus 1 telematics vote, 136; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u193	It's taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u194	No legislative proposal by Mr Baldoví, of the Joint Group, on the financing of the Valencian Community. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 136 against, 181 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u195	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Liberation of Leopoldo Lopez. [[File number 162/001173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u196	No bill by the People's Group on the release of Leopoldo López. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the People's Group and the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 306 against, 19 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u197	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u198	Motion by La Izquierda Plural, on measures to be taken by the Government to eradicate the increase in discrimination against women in Spain. That is eight points that we shall vote on separately. Point one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 143 against, 180 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u199	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour 145 against 182.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u200	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes cast; 326 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u201	It was adopted unanimously. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 326 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u202	It was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 147 against, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u203	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour 145 against 182.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u204	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 141 against, 182.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u205	It's rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 132 against, 187 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u206	It's rejected. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the serious setbacks that are being caused by the rights and freedoms of women and to convert equal opportunities between men and women into their main task. [[File number 173/000201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u207	Motion by the Socialist Group on the measures that the Government intends to take to prevent the serious setbacks that are causing women's rights and freedoms and to make equal opportunities for men and women its main focus. It is going to vote exactly on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 126 against, 181 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-14-CD150414.u208	The motion is rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and fifty-five minutes of the night.
