ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u1	The meeting was called to order. It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Group amending the General Tax Law on the advertising of data in extraordinary tax regularization processes. To present the initiative, Mrs Vázquez Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will defend today on behalf of my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a proposal for a law aimed at amending the General Tax Law with the intention that the names of the individuals and personal data of those who receive an extraordinary tax regularization or tax amnesty in this case, approved by the Government through Royal Decree-Law 12/2012, may be known. This is one more initiative than my group has put forward for this purpose, because we believe that it is legally possible to do so. Socially, it is absolutely necessary and it is also a guarantee that no action as unnecessary as shameful will be carried out again, as it has been in the 21st century to bring a law here for criminals and tax evaders to legalize their situation at a balance price. You know that my group has been opposed to this amnesty from the outset, and from the minute we have brought an action for unconstitutionality against the rules adopted by that amnesty; we have also brought an action before the National Court against the ministerial order that developed the procedure of the tax amnesty and we have repeatedly demanded through various initiatives that the data of the more than 30,000 defrauders included in that list be known. In all the initiatives we have discussed in this House, the only vote we have had against has been that of the People's Group. If this is taken into consideration, for which I request the favourable vote of all groups, including the Group of the European People's Party - although I doubt it - that list may be published. Citizens may also know the more than 700 defrauders who are being investigated for signs of having committed money laundering. The Government can now include the amendments in the bill that it has referred to the Chamber of Amendment of the General Tax Act. It is a very opportune time for this amendment to be included there and, if this bill is passed, we will also know that if in the future some Government is tempted to approve such a process, a process of extraordinary fiscal regularization, personal data and the origin of capitals will be published immediately. This is achieved by means of point (l) which we have added to Article 95(1). We believe that in the international context of the fight against fraud in which we are currently moving, of cooperation between countries, with the technical and computer tools with which we have in the twenty-first century and with such an efficient tax agency, it would not have been necessary to approve the amnesty in order to collect in addition what has been collected, with forgiveness, a misery compared to the damage that has been done, almost a gift to the defrauders who legalize their situation while the middle classes were taxed, as they will remember, in 2012. In our view, there would have been better economic and, of course, ethical results of any kind if the resources of the Tax Agency for combating fraud had been increased. The Finance Inspectors are constantly insisting that this measure would be very cost-effective. On the contrary, since the People's Party government arrived, the agency's strength has been reduced by almost 2,000 people, recognized by the director of the Tax Agency recently. Model 720, for example, which requires the declaration of foreign property and rights, could have been approved, although model 720 is not intended to combat fraud. Model 720 is intended to declare goods and rights that may be legalized, that are abroad, but that have paid their taxes. The director of the Tax Agency said that he was also working well in the fight against fraud, so before he had approved a tax amnesty of this size, model 720 could have been approved. The tax amnesty, in addition to being shameful, has been a failure in its collection. It has not raised half of the Government's target. Let's remember. The Government approved this amnesty with the aim of raising 2.5 billion euros out of 25 billion euros. That is to say, the defrauders were going to legalize the situation of capital which, moreover, did not know the origin, because it could legalize cash, for a low price, for 10%. That is, while we pay in one ticket for going to the cinema 21 %, the defrauders pay only 10 %. This seemed a lot to the defrauders. They had to send their lawyers to negotiate with the government, because at first there were no capitals, nothing came because the fraudsters said they wanted to pay even less, and the government gave in and Montoro relegated, in this case retroactively, and to negotiate that they would pay only 3%. They came out more, of course, this was a bargain. Instead of reaching 25 billion, 40,000 came out, but instead of raising 2.5 billion, as the Government had proposed, 1.2 billion euros were not raised. The price was a bargain. I wonder, was the goal really to collect or was it to make it easier for people close to the People's Party to legalize the money that came from where? Was there any previous commitment to make it easier for those people, close to the party, to legalize low-priced defrauded capitals and with commitment as well as to remain silent forever? Was there a commitment to approve the tax amnesty before approving model 720? Because if the only objective was to collect, it could either have supported the Tax Agency, as I said, for example, with more resources, or it could have approved model 720 earlier, but it all pointed out that the Government had irrevocable interests. The citizens felt that the Government was putting its interests and those of its party ahead of those of the citizens, and then names began to come out. Whether interested or not, Mr Bárcenas came out, first denied by Minister Montoro and then affirmed; then López Viejo and Francisco Granados and we became perplexed when we continued with surnames like Pujol, a whole social scandal, also for Minister Montoro, who came immediately to appear in this House. We had not come out of the spotlight when Rodrigo Rato's name came out, nothing more and nothing less than the former economic president and finance minister of a PP government, that is, while he was telling us how important it was to contribute to the welfare of this country, he was taking the money to tax havens. We don't know if there will be any more surprises, because we don't know the list. What has happened in this country is a national shame, so we demand to know not a drip of names that are interestingly filtered; we want to know the whole list, we believe it is possible, that is why we have presented this initiative. It's possible if you want to. We want and that's why I say this list will be known sooner or later. As in this House all groups except the PP are in favour of this, we will just have to wait for the PP roll to disappear, which I hope will not take too long. Why are the Government and the People's Party opposed to taking the necessary steps to publish these names? The Government claims that it is impossible in its publication to rely on the principle of the reservation of data with tax significance referred to in article 95 of the General Tax Act, precisely the article that we propose to vary. We add one more letter to paragraph 1 of that article in order to introduce the exception of persons who accept extraordinary fiscal regularization. Everyone knows, therefore, that if this article is reformed, the names of those who accept the tax amnesty will be made public, if any Government dares to do so. The Government also claims unconstitutionality because of the guarantee of irretroactivity, but - there are lawyers who think otherwise - the Constitution guarantees the irretroactivity of non-favorable sanctioning provisions, but the publication of the list is not in itself a new sanctioning measure or limits fundamental rights. There are jurists who understand that. The publication of the list is not a prohibited non-retroactivity, quite the contrary, it is transparency; however, the People's Group has never thought of entering - as the rest of the groups in this House have done - into the conflict between the right to confidentiality of the defrauders, confessed in addition, and the right of citizens to know what they are going to vote for, for example, in elections. My group last April tabled a motion asking to know the names of that list before the municipal elections, because we citizens have the right to know who we are going to vote for. Only the People's Group voted against the motion. The municipal elections have passed, the government party has received good punishment, in the words of Mr. Rajoy for the corruption of his party and because the media had talked a lot about the corruption of his party. Perhaps, if it had been in his hand to hide it as he is hiding this list, he would have, but fortunately the Government cannot shut up the whole press. Now the general elections are coming and my party wants everything to be known. He is very interested in ensuring that there is absolute transparency and that we have all the information before we vote. If you want to present the generals as a transparent party, you now have the opportunity to vote in favour of this proposal and work quickly to get to know the list before the generals. If that list is not published before the general elections, they will not nullify the suspicion that there are partisan interests that force them to hide names and surnames. I therefore ask you to support this initiative so that we can know before we vote. If you are not going to support her, I would ask you not to leave the hills of Ubeda, because you will surely start talking about things that happened in the last century, when there was not even the Tax Agency, a Tax Agency that is also so effective and efficient, with such magnificent professionals to fight against fraud if you had sufficient resources. You are going to talk here about birds and flowers, about issues that have nothing to do with this proposal. If you're going to vote no, I ask you to explain why you don't want the list to be known. I'll tell them we'll wait for the PP roller to disappear and we'll publish the list then if it's in our hand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. Mr Azpiazu has the floor, first of all, for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, I recognise that this has been your subject, at least for Mr Saura and the Socialist Group, the flag over the last few years since the government approved the tax amnesty. Week after week they have made clear their political position on this, a political position which we share for the most part, as we have stated on more than one occasion, but which we would like to point out and concrete at the moment. As I was telling you, the Basque Group and the Basque Nationalist Party have always been firmly opposed to the tax amnesty, which some still call fiscal regularization. We have done so because we consider, like other groups in this House, that it is inescapable that a large number of fraudsters can regularise their fiscal situation at a minimum cost - as you have pointed out - of 3% on average, in the midst of an economic crisis, when a lot of people are having a hard time, but, despite having a hard time, many of them still face their tax obligations, while those, the fraudsters, do not face their tax responsibilities. It is always an offence for citizens that a few or many do not pay taxes by evading capital or placing them in tax havens. In addition, more than one and more than two of these citizens boast of patriotism while insolently avoiding paying taxes. This is entrepreneurship always and especially, as I pointed out, in times of crisis, since with their defaults they are forcing the sacrifices of the most affected people to be greater than they would be in the event of everyone paying taxes. Faced with this situation, citizens want to know who they are defrauding and how much they are defrauding and it is very logical that this should be the case. Moreover, when through the media we learn that characters such as Rat, Barcens and a long etc. have welcomed amnesty, we get more angry and rebel even more if it fits. Citizens who had to pay tax rates of 50 % or 35 % in companies only paid 3 % and only once. It is a real shame and, as I say, citizens are shocked and logically ask for names and responsibilities. We fully understand this and also understand that it is necessary to fight with all means within our reach for the madness of tax fraud to disappear, amending laws, fighting tax havens, introducing these subjects into the education system, in any way. We believe that this is a key issue that needs to be addressed in order to eradicate it. If you'll excuse me, I have a question that I think is reasonable. It is not very common to apply such measures retroactively. It is difficult legally and politically to defend retroactivity, that is, what you propose in the additional provision. We understand that people are asking for it and we certainly agree that that list is known, but we must recognize that it is not easy to apply retroactivity. In any case, we believe that if we pass a law that effectively empowers retroactivity, it should be supported by a large majority of the House so that it is not understood that this is a personal vendetta against each other. It is only in this context, in that of the will to provoke a debate on this issue, that we will vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration, rather supporting the need for debate on the matter than strictly provided for in the additional provision. What we can fully agree is that the General Tax Act should be amended to ensure that in future amnesty cases, if they occur even if they are undesirable, it is actually known who the amnesty has been and who has been defrauded, but that these issues are known in advance before starting a process of these characteristics. We know that it is difficult to do this with those of 2012, but if there is political will and vast majority, we can try. It is, in any case, an issue of enormous interest to all citizens for what I have commented on. It would be appropriate to discuss it in depth at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, because we are already in what is called boiler time, we are for few initiatives in this House, but we believe that this is an important issue that deserves reflection and that it will certainly deserve it in the next parliamentary term. Moreover, it will probably be in a House with a different composition, with different sensitivities and concerns when this issue arises. Let us therefore move the debate - and this is not an urgent matter at this time - to the next parliamentary term. By the way, I would like to recall something that is obvious, that I always do and that is almost never recognized, and that is that in the Spanish State there are five haciendas, that the State Treasury has made a regularization, a fiscal amnesty - let us call it in both ways so that everyone will be happy - but that the outside haciendas have not made any fiscal amnesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law which is being submitted for consideration deals with an issue which, as we all know, is in the public debate. It was so at the time that such a hidden tax amnesty under the fiscal regularization label was brought about as a public offence, and has been so since cases that have jumped mediaically because they are people charged with possible crimes. Our parliamentary group has always been against tax amnesties or regularizations and we have always argued that what was at stake was not to bring tax fraud out by means of such regularizations, but by providing resources to the Tax Agency so that it could prosecute the fraudsters and bring out precisely the money they were hiding from the tax system, because that is the means used in countries with advanced tax systems. They don't make tax regulations. They provide tax agencies with the resources to be able to act according to their competences: legal resources, human resources, material resources, etc. That is why we have also always defended the need for citizens to know who are the debtors with the Public Finance, whether these debtors of good faith or defrauders, because it is a right of society to know who are in breach of their fiscal obligations, which are those that sustain the satisfaction of the needs of society, in this case of Spanish society. That is why we believe that the issue of publicizing information to society about who are those who have debts to the public finances, and especially those who are defrauding, should be the subject of legalization that addresses exceptional cases and habitual cases. That is why we are submitting two amendments to the amendment to the General Tax Act, which is currently also being tabled in the House: an amendment to Article 95a(2)(a), which has to do with the publication of the list of general debtors, and an amendment to Article 95a(8), which has particular interest in advertising for public offices and even for candidates who are running for general elections, because it is clear that it is in the interest of society to know whether those who can potentially vote meet their tax obligations. Why do we consider it important to standardise this situation legally - and not by means of exceptional laws for exceptional fiscal regularizations -? Why should the advertising of those who are debtors with the Public Treasury be legally normalized? Basically for three reasons. A first reason is obvious: security in economic relations. Just as there are lists of financiers among private economic operators, it is logical that the list of financiers is known with regard to the public finances, with greater reason, to know who we are relating to in economic activity, in the market, between public or private economic operators, who owes and pays and who owes and does not pay, and especially, among the latter, who tries to evade their responsibility. Also for reasons of social sanction for the late and especially when those late may be stripping criminal actions for fraud, because it is about making known to those who act against the collective interests of society, and doing so so so that they have the social sanction of advertising, but also because, to the contrary, that implies recognition, the exemplaryness of those who - who are the vast majority of citizens - do contribute with their fiscal effort to the needs of society and the State. Finally, for a third reason, because of the deterrence of potential defrauders, so that they know that in the future there will be no silence for their anti-social conduct that sometimes breaks down the crime. It is about ensuring economic security in transactions, social sanctions for fraudsters and deterrence for those who are tempted to do so. For all these reasons we are going to vote in favour of what is presented for consideration, but we also think that from the technical and legal point of view its place would not correspond, as it is presented in the proposed law, in an additional paragraph of article 95, because article 95 of the General Tax Law speaks of how to be used for collecting purposes, but avoiding translation to third parties, in this case advertising, and you incorporate it as one more paragraph within that article. The same would be true of article 95 bis, which regulates precisely the listing of the late, whether they are defrauding or not. That is a technical-legal aspect that we will be able to discuss in due course. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Garzón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our group will support this project because it is in the right line. Indeed, there is a legal issue that has been under discussion, perhaps separating the focus from the important because it was not the legal procedure but the content that actually concerns the Spanish and Spanish. Ultimately people demand in the street to know the truth of what has happened in this country in recent decades, to know the truth of all those people, even those companies, who have used the financial and fiscal mechanisms, even in many cases the collaboration of the State itself, to defraud everyone. In short, it has been the responsible ones who have been in the sewers of the economic system that was built on the real estate bubble. That is what happens when we want to know the truth: that we have thousands, millions of citizens, wanting to know who are the ones who have robbed us; who are the ones who have cheated on us; who are the hypocrites who, saying patriots, then had their accounts in tax havens, hiding in this way money that would have been destined for public education, for public health, in short, for public services from which we all benefit - yes - but especially the most disadvantaged classes in our country. That is why we have to denounce again and again this patriotism of a pack, when we find those people who say to themselves patriots but who cause these effects on the social majority. Of course, the State cannot do so much to conceal the truth, because in the end there are citizens who also use computer skills to obtain information, sometimes thanks to hackers, sometimes by other mechanisms, in order to ultimately know a piece of the truth. That is what has happened to us with the Falciani list and with many other lists that are explicitly recognizing that the beneficiaries of having money in tax havens are always the same, a wealthy social minority that has also been enriched in this crisis and that has been largely responsible for the economic and social problems that we are suffering from the social majority. No matter what the State says, no matter what this Government says with regard to legal issues - if retroactive - because what there is is a huge contradiction between what it asks, demands and demands from people and parliamentary groups like ours, The Plural Left, and what the Government does. While people demand to know who stole from us, the Government not only hides it - because it knows, is aware, knows the names and surnames of all those people who have scammed us, more than 700 people alone and exclusively on this list that we are talking about - but also gives them mechanisms to continue hiding their money, their identity and continue scamming by other mechanisms. That was the tax amnesty. Let no one be deceived by technicalism or economicism. Ultimately, it was a great and extraordinary help for criminals; apart from for the most dangerous criminals of all, for those who end up causing a loss in the quality of life of the rest of the population, and also revealing structural corruption in the political system. This structural corruption even reaches the royal house; it is a corruption that has benefited from fiscal amnesty - this is not the first - and from economic policies, from the conformism of the People's Party in this legislature, with that bill or those mechanisms and instruments such as fiscal amnesty. We believe that it is rigorous, necessary, for social justice, but also to build a fairer country, to know who the scammers are. It will be very difficult for this Government of the People's Party to come out and say that it does not want to give the names and surnames of those who have plundered us. It is curious - or not so curious, because we have learned a lot in these years of crisis - that many of these names are linked to the People's Party government - it is the case of Rodrigo Rato - but there are quite a few names that we do not know, that have appeared on other lists and that are linked to the networks of institutional power that have coopted the state in recent decades. That is why we are going to support this project, but not to mention the hypocrisy of the group that proposes it, because the Falciani list came in times of the Socialist Party government. Right now there is an open court case against two financial professionals precisely for the possibility that there would be a preferential treatment for not acting ex officio, but simply for sending a letter to the fraudsters telling them that they had to regularize their situation. No, ladies and gentlemen; if there is a thief you are denounced and the whole state is put against you, you are not offered favors that are not done to those who defraud small amounts. Therefore, welcome be this project without looking at what the group is, because we will support it and want to know the truth. This would generate incentives for a fairer country; incentives that mean that the person who cheats and hides his money in order not to pay for the public health of the poor has to be known by the citizenry, so that at least he cannot go around saying that he is a representative of Spain. He cannot be a representative of Spain or of the general interest who works against him. By the way, the tax amnesty means a clear contradiction in our 1978 Constitution and in the article that defends that the tax system - and the tax amnesty - must be progressive, which means that those who have the most have to pay and those who have the least have the least have to pay. Black holes like those that the People's Party itself is creating and consenting to thanks to tax havens destroy the political foundations of a political community that wants to be built in a just way. Therefore, fiscal reform and amnesty undermine the Constitution itself, after which the People's Party often paralyzes so that everything remains as it has been. Everything will remain as it has been until now if we continue to allow the looters to go out of their way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr Picó has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. We must recognise the Socialist Group - allow me, Mrs Vázquez - and Mr Saura the ability to be insistent on matters which are very legitimately of concern to him. There is no doubt that the process of extraordinary regularization, the so-called fiscal amnesty, has been a recurring issue in this legislature, for its purpose and for the consequences associated with it. The Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió said this a long time ago: The development of the norm and the various and escalated subsequent interpretations, as well as the correlative reactions of the Government to the events that were developing over time, have caused serious and profound legal uncertainty. We have repeated this: it is not a question of covering anything, it is not a question of saving anyone, even less if they are involved in criminal proceedings, but it is also not a question of causing serious legal uncertainty. A long time ago my group expressed that in this tax regulation there was clear-cut, which was not a good example; legal uncertainty is never good. We believe that the proposal for a law presented to us by the Socialist Group seeks - Mrs Vázquez has said so - to include an additional provision with an amendment of the General Tax Law and not with an amendment of the General Tax Law with an additional provision. The aim of the initiative is the additional provision, not the amendment of the General Tax Law: to make known the names of those who benefit from the past tax amnesty. I think so, Mrs. Vazquez. As I was telling you, the Parliamentary Convergence and Union Group is not going to enter the game of legal uncertainty. How else can we contemplate the measure proposed to us, which has retroactive effects in addition - as Mr Azpiazu said - but also from the perspective of legal certainty? Tell me, Mrs Vázquez, if it could not be derived from this proposal for a law, which provides for the assumption of identification of subjects who take up extraordinary procedures of regularization, an authorization, an invitation for future governments to approve new fiscal amnesty. Of course, I do not think that this is your objective, Mrs Vázquez; I do not think that you intend to give rise to future tax amnesties. In an attempt to publish the list of subjects who have been admitted to the past tax amnesty, the additional provision needs a general assumption in the article of the General Tax Act, the amendment of article 95, for it to operate in the past, and unwittingly many might believe that it opens the door to more tax amnesty in the future. I know it's not, I repeat, but the form of your initiative can give rise to that interpretation. Therefore, beware, beware that the weapons are carried by the devil. Continuing with the form, the proposal for a law presented to us today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group seeks to add a new assumption - as I said - to article 95 of the General Tax Act. It is necessary to establish the content of that article. It is none other than the principle of data retention, considering that the data, reports or background obtained by tax administrations are confidential and can only be used to fulfil the functions that are specific to tax administrations, i.e. the effective application of taxes or resources and the imposition of appropriate sanctions. This is the main object of article 95 of the General Tax Act. Subsidiarily - continues article 95 and as also provided for in the statement of reasons for its proposal of law - regulates the situations in which the data, reports or background obtained by the Tax Administration can be transferred or communicated to third parties. Indeed, the general rule is the reservation of data and exceptions to this general rule are envisaged. Mrs Vázquez, the assumptions currently provided for by section 95 of the General Tax Act, being exceptions to the data reservation rule, must answer two questions: first, to whom and, second, to what. Breaking the reservation rule requires justified and intended reasons for this data and reports. For example, paragraph (a) refers to the transfer of data. Who? The courts and the prosecutor's office. For what? For the investigation or prosecution of crimes. Article 95 (b) indicates who. Other tax administrations. For what? For the fulfilment of tax obligations in the field of their competences. Letter (c) points to the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and managing bodies and common social security services. For what? To combat fraud in the assessment and collection of social security contributions and fraud in obtaining and enjoying benefits under the scheme. Thus, correlatively, there are up to twelve assumptions that break the general rule, and they all respond to a specific object and a particular subject. The new assumption they propose to us with their initiative is to include the identification of individuals, companies and other entities with legal personality that are accommodated in extraordinary tax regularization procedures. Applying the principle of coherence, the new assumption they intend to include - as an exception, I repeat, to the principle of data retention - should also answer these two questions, an object and a data recipient. What he has proposed to us does not respond to either one or the other. What is the recipient of the information? Unknown. What is the reason for the exception to the principle of data reservation? Unknown. The wording of the precept does not tell us. There is little consistency with the content of the precept that is intended to be included in this new case, from my point of view. If we look at the drafting of the initiative my group could and can share that we create a new advertising assumption for future occasions. We do not believe it to be negative, I say this to you clearly, Mrs Vázquez; moreover, the principle of legal certainty to which I have referred and which Mr Azpiazu has also commented would be complied with. We do not believe that applying retroactivity is positive and should be in line with the wording of the precept of article 95, justifying, as I said, the reason and purpose for the necessary exclusion of the principle of data retention, as well as the recipient of the information. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group on Convergence i Unió hopes to have the opportunity to discuss on behalf of our parliamentary groups this issue more closely and in depth in the processing of the draft law amending the General Tax Law, which we will deal with in the Finance Commission to which you and I belong. Furthermore, I am convinced that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will formulate this matter by amending the text of the above-mentioned bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mrs Madrazo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Socialists, you are presenting us with an initiative in which you ask to publish the data of those who have received extraordinary regularisation. We have discussed this issue countless times in this House, but you know that this initiative lacks the minimum legal rigour. Once again they come to this House to sell us their book; a science fiction book full of demagogy and populism. That's what I have to tell you. Demagogy consists in manipulating people's feelings with unfounded promises that cannot be fulfilled, and that is what we are used to seeing and the quintessence of Pedro Sánchez's present socialism. This weekend he promised moderation, while handing over the institutions to the radicals; he also promised patriotism, while handing over municipalities to independence groups; and he promised to defend the flag of Spain, when handing over the municipalities to those political groups that hide it. Therefore, pure and harsh demagogy. As I say, that is the quintessence of Pedro Sánchez's present socialism: to promise one thing and then to do the opposite. That has also been their tactic throughout the entire fiscal legislature, particularly in this matter of extraordinary fiscal regularization. They have tried to soil the good name of the Government and the Minister of Finance himself with lies, falsehoods and demagoguery. The Socialist Group has turned the fight against tax fraud - I remind you that it is a task for all of us here, for society as a whole and for all governments - into a bold weapon against the government and they have not even hesitated to discredit the good name that the Tax Agency itself has worked out throughout its history. That has been the only strategy of the PSOE; its contribution to measures to combat tax fraud is absolutely nothing, both in the Government and in the opposition. His accusations have become evident over and over again, because this Government speaks with data and results and not with value judgments or speeches that lack content. The reality is that this Government will go into history as the most reformist and innovative in preventing and combating tax fraud. The reality is that the set of policy measures that this Government has adopted has been a veritable revulsion to pursue fraud and entrap fraudsters. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that tax fraud has not been invented by the People's Party, but existed before this government arrived; there was even a lot of tax fraud with the socialist government, and fortunes were widely used for tax havens. Now with this government, they are pursued with more means, more legal tools and more forcefulness. As the Director said at his appearance, with the measures approved by the Government, the Tax Agency knows about assets and securities deposited in tax havens - Switzerland, Andorra, Gibraltar - that it previously did not know. He also knows who his holders are, now registered with the Tax Agency. Goods and securities and their holders with names and surnames on public finance computers are controlled. That is what the measures adopted by this Government have achieved. Now the Tax Agency has information - which its director described as overflowing - to fight, control and investigate these goods and values and to be able to carry out their work. Ladies and gentlemen, data and results, that is what this Government is offering, because the new obligation to report accounts and securities abroad has succeeded in bringing forward goods and securities worth more than EUR 124,000 million, which - I say again - are controlled and recorded by the Treasury, controlled and registered by its holders; it is a powerful control tool. Historical results have been achieved in the fight against fraud - you know - more than EUR 37,674 million, which is not nonsense, because it is, for example, EUR 37,674 million that serve to pay unemployment benefits for a year and a half; see if these results are important in the fight against fraud. Instead of going up here again and again to wear down the government, they should go up here to congratulate the Tax Agency, its employees, those great professionals who work with absolute independence and professionalism. Only insults have been heard throughout this parliamentary term by the Socialist Group, insinuations of the lack of independence of the Tax Agency, as well as of the lack of independence of its professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire opposition has tried to demonise an extraordinary fiscal regularization that was made at the beginning of the legislature, but with complete transparency and complete legality. This regularisation has been made at an exceptional time - as I say at the beginning of the parliamentary term - at a very difficult time, when the fall of the collection with the socialist government was almost 70 billion euros. We had millions of unpaid bills and free-fall collection; above all, we had Spain on the verge of bankruptcy. Brave, determined steps had to be taken to seek revenue from the Public Treasury to sustain our welfare state. It is therefore a very far-fetched attitude to tear your clothes now before an exceptional measure to procure these public revenues. Moreover, you know perfectly well that all the countries in our environment, all - I will quote some: Germany, France, the United Kingdom - have approved extraordinary processes of fiscal regularization; even some very applauded governments by certain groups represented in this Parliament in countries such as Greece are considering some such measures. This regularization has been done with absolute transparency, with light and stenographers, and has been published in the Official State Gazette. The declarants of this special tax declaration are registered with the Tax Agency; while the socialist governments did not one but three fiscal amnesties, absolutely opaque and also anonymous, since we did not know who the people who had come up with these hidden goods were. I am not going to talk about the covert amnesties they made, and not in the last century, Mrs Vázquez, in 2010, with the Falciani list; they know perfectly well that those who were in it finally left rositas. Therefore, do not give us moral choices, because of course the Socialist Party is the least suitable to do so. With this fiscal regularization more than 40 billion euros have come out in Spain that, thanks to you and the socialist governments, you would remain hidden - because you do not think it was necessary to do so -; you would remain hidden in Switzerland, Andorra, in tax havens and would probably even have prescribed those tax debts, because you wanted to do the ostrich policy, look elsewhere and continue as we were, with the fortunes camping wide for tax havens. With this fiscal regularization - of which you have said barbarities - there are 715 people who are being investigated, because the Tax Agency has found in these declarants - who have been portrayed with names and surnames - signs of money laundering. That is why, thanks to this extraordinary regularization, there are more than 715 taxpayers who have accepted this regularization and are being investigated for possible signs of money laundering. Besides, there are more than 7,000 taxpayers who are being investigated by the Tax Agency thanks to the data they have provided through these declarations. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party wants to continue to move towards greater transparency and will continue to work towards a fairer and more equitable tax system, in which we all pay and so we can all pay less taxes; that is our goal. It is true that the General Tax Law provides for the reserved nature of the data obtained by the Tax Administration, but we want to make progress in transparency. That is why two bills are already in the process, as you know, in that direction: one amending the General Tax Act and the other regulating the publication of final convictions for tax fraud. Its objectives are very clear, that the most relevant non-compliances can be published in order to strengthen the legal-tributory awareness and to encourage the effective income of debts with Finance. To this end, the lists of taxpayers with debts and penalties that exceed a certain amount will be published and, as I say to you, the final sentences for tax offences will be made public. These changes are balanced, respectful of our legal system and seek to advance the fight against fraud, but preserving - other speakers have also expressed here - legal certainty, which is fundamental in a rule of law. Socialist gentlemen, you are once again late. That is why we are voting against an initiative that lacks minimum legal rigour and would blow up our basic principles of law. We invite you and all the groups represented in this House to improve these two bills with the contributions you make in the form of amendments in your handling. Nor do we believe the good intentions of the Socialist Party or its leader Pedro Sánchez, after the pacts we have seen, with astonishment, in these last days.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u13	Mrs. Madrazo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u14	It's over, Mr. President. You lack the credibility necessary to defend the general interests of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, OF ENERGY SELF-CONSUMPTION. [[File number 122/00152]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u16	Proposition of the Law of the Group of the Plural Left of self-consumption of energy. For your defence, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the forefront of the Paris Climate Change Summit in the face of the important challenge of achieving a global agreement on CO2 emissions. Spain is one of the countries that will not be able to meet its emission reduction commitment by 2020. In fact, the European Environment Agency believes that we are not even on our way to this. [[The lady]] The high external energy dependence of our country, of 73% compared to 53% of the European Union, together with the high energy intensity, of 87% compared to 69% of the European Union, shows us an extremely inefficient energy model that requires radical change. Energy dependence on the outside not only makes us geostrategically vulnerable, but also implies a serious economic failure for our trade balance. Expenditure on oil and gas imports in 2014 amounted to 38,071 million euros. There is an important risk to our economy arising from the evolution of the price of these fuels within the framework of peak oil. In 2004, the Brent barrel was around $30, and today it is $63.5 per barrel. Over this time there have been oscillations that have reached up to $140 per barrel. Analysts predict that in ten years' time there will be fluctuations that can reach $200 a barrel. Thus, with the data on the table, it seems essential and urgent to initiate an energy model change based on savings, efficiency, renewable energy and a more democratic electricity management system. We do not say that, the global scientific community is strong about this need, and international agencies have also made it clear. Last week the International Energy Agency warned of the need to make a greater effort to reduce CO2 emissions, eliminating fossil fuel subsidies and increasing investment in renewables. Even the Pope said it in his Laudato. It blames politicians and entrepreneurs for reacting slowly to the challenge of renewable energies. And in this context we find a government that ignores the evidence, the international organizations and even the one that should be one of their spiritual references: the pope, of course. Its electricity reform has penalized clean energy and energy saving. In just five years Spain has moved from being at the head of Europe in the development of photovoltaic installations to being in line. In 2014 22 megawatts were installed while in the United Kingdom 2,402, in Germany 1,898 and in France 927, all of them countries with much less solar radiation than ours. The European Commission has warned Spain that it will not meet the renewable targets on many occasions. In 2012, it stated that the suspension of aid to renewables discouraged investment in the sector and made it difficult for Spain to achieve its energy and climate objectives within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy. In April 2013, the European Commission stated that Spain would achieve only 12.6% to 17.1% of renewable energy, also in 2020. Such data would constitute a clear breach not only of the minimum target of 20 % set in the Renewable Energy Directive, but also of the initial target of 22,7 % in the Renewable Energy Action Plan and 20,8 % set by the Spanish Government in its own Renewable Energy Plan for the period 2011-2020. And just a week ago, the European Commission again warned Spain that we are having a difficult time achieving the renewable target, and it has recommended that this government assess whether its policies are sufficient and effective in meeting the renewable targets. The European Environment Agency, in December 2014, also warned of this problem, highlighting the inconsistency between renewables targets and the elimination of premiums for renewables. A week ago, the National Commission on Markets and Competition warned them of the need for self-generation of energy to meet the targets of renewables. They call for legislation to set the conditions under which small installations can sell unspent energy to the system. The Ombudsman and the National Energy Commission have also warned the Government of the need to enable energy self-production without imposing any sun toll. Common sense, national and international institutions go in one direction, and what do you do? Just the opposite: they draw up a draft royal decree with the intention of burying the self-production of energy. What they are doing is unheard of; we are the laughing stock of energy in the European Union. They draw up a real decree to - I quote textually - advance towards a system of distributed generation through mechanisms of sale of surplus, instant self-consumption to enhance the individual production of energy in small power installations for consumption at the same location in those cases that are efficient for the whole electrical system. Efficient for the whole electrical system? Have you done any cost-benefit studies? Have they taken into account the benefits of self-generation with renewable energy? Well, no, because they don't care, just. They have dedicated themselves to putting a series of obstacles in place so that no one can be aware of the self-generation of energy. They continue to impose a toll on the sun, although it is no longer the back-up to the previous draft of the Decree of July 2013; it remains an economic barrier that makes self-consumption impossible and has also increased it in the case of domestic workers by 13% and in the services and SMEs sector by a hundred percent. It discriminates against other consumers, as well as against other energy saving and efficiency measures, such as cogeneration or the use of efficient appliances. As the National Energy Commission had already said, the establishment of a toll to support consumers only in the form of self-consumption constitutes discriminatory treatment with the rest of consumers. A domestic consumer who consumes electricity from the network pays today 44 euros megawatt/hour of tolls plus his contribution through the fixed part of the receipt. If he did so with his own photovoltaic panel, the Government intends to charge him 49 euros megawatt/hour of charges, in addition to, of course, keeping the fixed part unchanged. The difference is to be explained by the so-called system adjustment services, which are only different payment methods to conventional generation plants. It is retroactive; the facilities already regularized by the Autonomous Communities would enter into illegality if they are not adapted, and re-emphasize the discretion and lack of legal certainty of the energy reform and the usual disregard of the People's Party for the normative capacity recognized in the constitution of the Autonomous Communities. They maintain fines of up to 60 million for installations which are not regulated by the new regulations, which are twice as high as those for nuclear escapes and up to 260 times as high as those for negligence resulting in an air accident. Not only does it not allow the net balance, the excess energy is given to the company, but it also makes the installations with accumulators and batteries viable. The vast majority of countries with self-consumption regulations introduce the concept of net balance for efficient use of the electricity grid. The United States, Canada, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Switzerland, the Netherlands or Great Britain already have systems in this regard. In addition, it burdens families suffering from energy poverty, because installing equipment for self-protection expels them from benefiting from the social bonus or the voluntary price to the small consumer, apart from fierce administrative and economically disincentives. The fact is that for the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, extra-penisular territories, the cost of electricity supply is particularly high: 148 megavaries/hours in the Canary Islands, 139 in the Balearic Islands, which means an increase in the electricity bill of the country's total consumers of about 1.8 billion euros. The text itself recognises the suitability of self-consumption facilities, as self-generation is considerably cheaper than energy transport from the peninsula. However, without any reasoning or logic, it only exempts the self-consumers of those territories from paying the sun tax until 2020, a period insufficient to amortize the installation of a high-consumption photovoltaic system. The proposed draft Royal Decree of the Government runs counter to European directives, both the Renewables Directive in Articles 13 and 16, and the Energy Efficiency Directive in Articles 15, 18 and 19. Why does Portugal, for example, which shares our electrical system, regulate in a favourable way the self-consumption without tolls or impediments for the storage of energy with the real objective of encouraging it and, instead, Spain is inventing all the possible obstacles to prevent it? Why are they so opposed to self-consumption and renewables? It is that the energy record of this government has no waste. They already opposed the European Energy Efficiency Directive in 2012; in 2013 they renounced to maintain their position among the twenty-one countries of the Council that manages the International Renewable Agency. The reports commissioned from Boston Consulting and Roland Berger to assess the costs of renewables are scandalous. We now know why they refused to provide these reports. It turns out that they approved cuts of $3 billion to the renewables sector without the mandatory reports on which they were supposed to be based and that they told us that they were on which they were based. It is a deception of the ministry, a powerless attitude that lines in the prevarication. In this regard, we note that there is no Spanish energy model and a clear submission by Minister Soria and his department to the interests of electric oligopoly. Apart from the legal uncertainty that has generated its electricity reform and has led to innumerable demands in international bodies, we have the most expensive price of electricity before taxes from the European Union; after taxes, the fourth. In 2014 it rose by 4.1%, compared to 2.9 % in the European Union; in less than a year they have almost doubled the fixed term of the household consumer's light bill. What do we propose? We propose a law that regulates the self-production of energy to make it viable, because we believe in it as a fundamental measure to move towards the energy model we need. The proposal allows the net balance, understood as the system of compensation of energy balances in an instant or deferred way that allows consumers to produce individual energy for their own consumption, thus making their production curve compatible with their demand curve. The consumer will be able to transfer the energy surplus to the electricity grid, which will generate deferred consumption rights for 12 months from the date of generation of the right. The electricity company shall deduct from the consumption of the network of the invoice the excesses paid to it, and the rate that the consumer will pay for the energy that he needs outside the deferred consumption rights will be the same as if he did not have the energy self-consumption in net balance. Consumers may be collected with different installed powers, from domestic to public centres or small enterprises, without installed or contracted power limits, except in the case of several consumers who jointly belong to the generation facility, which is also permitted, where the maximum installed and contracted power cannot exceed 10 megawatts. As regards the costs, charges and services of the system in the instant energy consumption, no toll or economic regime associated with the coverage of costs, charges and services of the system for the instant self-consumption energy shall be calculated. I'm finishing up. Where energy consumption is deferred, tolls, charges and reduced costs shall be established taking into account the positive contributions of self-generation. These tolls, charges and costs associated with the exchanged energy may in no case be greater than those applied in similar terms to other consumer subjects. The offences that were foreseen as very serious become serious and the serious ones become mild, because at the moment they are absolutely disproportionate. I ask you to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration so that we can open a debate on the regulation of energy self-generation. More than 9,000 people have subscribed to the allegations made by numerous organizations, such as the platform for a new energy model, to their draft royal decree of self-consumption, and more than 114,500 have publicly requested the withdrawal of the decree and the measures that add new charges to self-consumption. In the sun country, show that they are on the side of citizens by promoting energy production centrally, sustainably and cheaply, and allow for a clear, open, transparent and democratic debate in Congress on self-consumption. This is the proposal put to them by the Plural Left Group. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u18	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. Joint Group, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u19	Thank you, Madam President. The Canarian nationalists announce unrestricted support for the bill defended today by the spokesman for La Izquierda Plural. This is to focus on a chapter more of the long march during this legislature in the sense of ending up producing a genuine energy counter-reform in the Spanish State, which has been guided by the important regulatory profusion that has developed over the past four years with our opposition, which I believe has been strong and argued. We believe that this is a clear example of the fact that what drives the sense of this normative profusion that the Spanish Government has been developing in this field is more ideological than of another kind, because we have not managed to find a single element that sustains this set of decisions or the why of this kind of aggressiveness with some clear elements that involve democratizing energy production in the Spanish State, increasing generation through clean energies, reducing the emission of greenhouse gases, stimulating an intense productive sector in knowledge, such as that related to clean energies, etc. It is a true mania, a real offensive against an element such as self-consumption with a net balance, which seems to us from every point of view difficult to explain, if not wrongly thinking, the truth. This was also an opportunity to democratise a sector that is opaque by its very nature. Understanding the Spanish energy sector is one of the most difficult tasks one can currently apply to, and understanding the electric bill, I don't even tell them. Far from moving forward in the sense of logic, which imposes the many reports, far from the European Union's clear statement in its Agenda 2020, and so on, what has been done is to work in the opposite direction. The term back-up toll for the whole energy supposedly produced by the self-consumption procedure really is a term that I cannot help but say that, rather than confusing, it is sarcastic. Look at me calling back to this! We will absolutely support this proposal for a law. The Canary Islands, moreover, have a special interest in making it perfectly clear that our bill would be much cheaper if we made use of clean energies, rather than spending what we are spending using just those that do not interest us. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u20	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, even the People's Party knows - even if it does not recognise it - that the most expensive bill in Europe does not pay the price of energy but the unbridled interests of energy oligopoly and legislation does not defend citizens and the environment, but rather the polluting and even mafia interests of large companies, which have not only generated a debt of 30 billion but have also accumulated profits over and above this figure. And this government not only does not back down its lobbyist and irrational legislation, in setting an absurd sun tax, but by means of this royal decree on self-consumption it further penalizes its development. This royal decree establishes taxes, charges to self-consumption, and, on the other hand, does not affect or intend to affect large companies that produce fossil energy. The Government seeks to punish renewables and the population by increasing bills and preventing the citizens from producing energy in the immediate future and in a cost-effective manner. So much so that the People's Party punishes with double the fine those who try to avoid the sun's tax on those who carry out or could carry out a nuclear spill. In addition, the Electric Sector Act itself legalizes kicking at the door so that inspectors can access the house without a court order, obviating the autonomous communities that could promote self-consumption in their demarcations. On the other hand, self-consumption would allow, first of all, to combat energy poverty, which already affects 7 million people throughout the Spanish state, which is why we should bet, as they do in California, on the model that drives and subsidizes self-consumption, which collects resources from polluting companies to subsidize or install panels free of charge in the homes of those people who do not have sufficient resources to install them. Renewables, ladies and gentlemen, are blatantly profitable; that is so, as long as they act with neutrality and ensuring that the same conditions as citizens are those reserved for large companies and oligopolies, which is why we are going to vote in favour of this proposal by La Izquierda Plural to the extent that we agree in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u23	From Amaiur we placed this proposal of law just opposite, as it could not otherwise be, of the draft royal decree on the self-consumption of electricity. Law 24/2013, of the Electrical Sector, and successive drafts and drafts of the Royal Decree on self-consumption are nothing but an impulse of harassment and destruction precisely of these alternatives of self-generation of energy as is self-consumption of electricity. They are the greatest example of the unlimited greed of a minister such as that of Industry and Energy, but what is worse is the greatest example of the cruel injustice that, without any remorse, is capable of applying the People's Party Government to the tens of thousands of families that have invested in renewables, because it understands that they stand in the way of the wretched task of serving large electricity companies. That is why it is more necessary than ever to expose the government and its minister, and to expose them as they are: arrogant and unscrupulous, because the European directives say so. They say this clearly and define three principles: firstly, the express recognition that renewables generate benefits that contribute to the energy system and that these benefits must be taken into account when setting tariffs and rates, and that they must also be applied in a proportionate and non-discriminatory manner; secondly, they defend the priority of energy efficiency in building and transport for its drag-on effect in achieving renewable targets and reducing carbon; and thirdly, they also defend the active role of consumers as the centre of the system, both generating and managing their demand through self-consumption and access to the meter. Despite the European Union's strongness and sharpness, this People's Party government jumps to the brink of European directives, but not precisely to protect consumer rights, but to protect its friends, the oligopoly of energy, call it Iberdrola, Endesa, Natural Gas or those who now seem to be encouraged to invest in fracking. But since Euskal Herria, too, they have been told repeatedly by the institutions that represent us, by the Parliament of Vitoria or by the Parliament of Navarre. A year and a half ago, a compromise amendment to a non-legislative proposal adopted by EH Bildu, the PNV and the Socialist Party urged this Government to reverse that draft of the Royal Decree of Self-Consumption and to push for a new Royal Decree that took into account the assessments of the National Energy Commission and the National Competition Commission, which denounced the toll of support and called for the collection of the net balance and the instantaneous balances between production and consumption. The Parliament of Navarre also spoke in this regard and unanimously, through the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, urging the State Government to make other policies with the energy of self-consumption and noting positively that self-consumption is to promote the freedom of citizens and businesses; or, for example, that it is the engine of employment growth, of skilled and stable employment distributed throughout the territory of Navarre; or, for example, that self-consumption improves energy independence and fights against such dependence on fossil fuels; or that self-consumption is a vector of energy efficiency because it promotes the efficient use of resources; or that it contributes to the fight against global warming. However, they also denounced that the then draft of the royal decree does what it does is to prevent freedom...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u24	Mr Errekondo...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u25	...of citizenship. Or for example...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u26	Mr Errekondo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u27	I'm just finishing up. It also took steps to prevent the use of storage batteries. From Amaiur we are clear that, in line with the Parliament of Vitoria and the Parliament of Navarre, we also have to denounce the policies that this Government has implemented with regard to energy policies and in particular with this draft royal decree of self-consumption. We will therefore support this proposal for a law submitted by the Group of the Plural Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u28	Thank you, Mr Errekondo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I speak from the seat and briefly to determine the position of our group with regard to this proposal for a law. The Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left brings to the debate the consideration of a proposal for a law, dated more than a year ago, in order to encourage and support - we understand - energy self-consumption. Promoting energy self-consumption is, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, successful and desirable. Economic efficiency, emission reduction, reduction of energy dependence, cost reduction, etc. are direct and desirable consequences of the implementation and implementation and development of self-consumption. I have more than one doubt, however, when it arises that those who practice self-consumption and the net balance are not covered by the toll by the use of the network, the famous distribution tolls. I'll understand if I'm explained, but I have to admit, I don't quite understand. What seems obvious is that those who practice self-consumption with a net balance, that is, by turning the excess energy generated into the net and pulling from the net when they require an energy that they do not generate or cannot generate, use this net and also in the double sense. Therefore, we believe that that must be paid for. Otherwise, consumers who don't generate or don't generate energy and that we just pull from the network would have to pay more using the network in one direction. And that a priori doesn't seem fair to me, it doesn't seem reasonable to me. Another thing is that, in order to promote self-consumption, they are encouraged fiscally or otherwise, through subsidies, renewable electricity generation and self-consumption. This is a proper way, to do it with light and tachographs, never better said the expression. We believe it is an important debate, we believe it is a necessary debate. Therefore, being in line with the fundamentals and with what is the promotion of energy self-consumption, our group is not going to oppose the processing of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u30	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Our group is also going to support the consideration of this proposal for a law because we believe that around self-consumption, which is a technique of energy production based mainly on renewables, there is a debate that is very interesting about the fundamental problems of Spanish energy policy, which are perhaps the lack of a policy and the type of diversions and rare things that are done, such as, for example, that rate that is intended to be passed via royal decree-law so that those people who have in their home or in their company or wherever, public entities or any type of consumer, a system of self-consumption, even if they do not use the electricity network, do have to pay a fee, which is something very difficult to sustain from a liberal perspective, because it would be to pay for something that one has not used or requested, or actually needs. I'll get into this right away. Before I say that we believe - and we have explained it during this parliamentary term and I will continue to explain it in what remains of it - that the energy system is something complex, that it has no panacea, that, as thermodynamics says, energy is neither created nor destroyed, but producing and consuming it always has effects and creates transformations and that, therefore, energy options all have costs. What is at stake is to make a policy as balanced as possible, in which environmental and economic costs are the lowest possible. The self-consumption, within that marimagnum that is the world of energy production, we think it has a place and that is why we are going to support and vote this consideration, because what does not get into our heads and we do not understand is what is behind this kind of constant squabble, from that permanent refusal to regulate properly something that is already regulated in many places in the world, in addition to the developed world where there are also large electricity companies, where there are also nuclear power plants, where there are also other sources, whether coal or other thermal power plants. It's not just understood. Nor is the explanation alone, that there is also a part of this, that of defending certain companies. This debate has emerged on other occasions when we are talking about energy issues. What is fundamental, and this is really bad, is an inflexible defense of an energy model that has demonstrated its failure where it is important to see success or failure, which is in the constant and permanent increase in consumer prices, not only to the small consumer who is already paying one of the most expensive electricity bills in Europe when Spain has overcapacity for electricity production, but also to the large consumer with devastating effects on industry, as everyone knows, causing relocations of companies or at least justifying them, and other similar phenomena. That is to say, Spain has a serious economic problem, I have also said this many other times, with the bad energy policy of the current government, which is, by the way, the heir of the previous government. There is also a great continuity in this. Besides, there's a mentality problem. This of paying for something that you don't want or don't need, that would be this universal rate to anyone who has a self-consumption facility and use it, should actually qualify as energy feudalism. It is something pre-liberal, it is something prior to the modern economy, to capitalism, to everything we know today as an exchange of goods. It is actually a tax similar to that of the Middle Ages, while feudalism lasted, which lasted a long time and still remains remain in some places of the world, which forced people to pay the local lord a fee because the local lord had a mill. You didn't have to pay for using the mill, but because the gentleman had a mill and, if you didn't, it was your problem. This is the same. They force you to pay a fee because there is an electrical distribution network, even if you don't use it at that time, within a certain measurable period of time. We are faced with a feudal mentality. I mean, this is a serious business, here are companies that have hereditary rights, here are who is and who is not, and you're not going to be a competitor for the energy production business. We have also been through all this in other debates such as the one on cogeneration and the rates that have been put to it, which is largely a source of energy production linked to heavy industry and which is also one of the most efficient and interesting. It was at the time one of the most punished with exceptions and legislative caps and all kinds of changes and replacements that have been made. The result of all these changes is that Spain continues to have a disastrous energy policy and that all that is to propose innovation, competition and competitiveness is always faced with that closed defense of a business model that from the point of view of consumers, which we are all, is a failure because it has no pass to accept that certain interests or certain business model, in which what really matters is that it is the government that negotiates with large companies the price of energy consumption - and it is a completely out of place at these heights of the century -, is the axis of energy policy. Moreover, it has also been said here, and of course it is a reflection that must be supported, that the self-consumption - I have already said - without being the panacea - we do not think that the universal extension of self-consumption will give rise to an energy democracy, this seems to us things out of place and somewhat magical thinking - we do believe that it is a technique to develop and employ because Spain is also a country very suitable for its degree of economic, technological development, for its climate, for the demographic and population structure of its territory. For example, self-consumption in its different forms is very interesting and very important to fix population in the rural environment, which suffers an accelerated process of depopulation. It has a lot to do with the development of concepts that in other countries, nothing suspicious like Britain, carry a great development: the concept of green economy that, despite that so attractive name, so marquetin, is nothing of the other world. It is about unifying advances in technology, computer science, urban renewal and new models of cities to produce what also here other important social actors such as the Renewables Foundation and others have proposed - and I think it is a good idea - that is to turn cities and urban areas not only into energy consumers, but also into producers, where self-consumption plays a great role. We have its constant and permanent refusal to open this type of regulation - because what we propose is regulation - so that within this energy mix the self-consumption has the maximum role that it can play in economic terms of profitability and efficiency. The higher it is, the better, because that will create in Spain something that we need like rain in the Sahara; we need R+D+i; we need quality employment; we need innovative companies; we need technological developments. All this can come from the hand of this idea of using self-consumption for a change in the economic, urban and energy model. I don't say to create paradise on earth here - I don't believe in it -; I'm talking to make reasonable use of those possibilities that we can reasonably use. What is not reasonable, what is irrational is to refuse, always prevent through this feudal, medieval, pre-liberal - you who speak so much of being liberal - from putting constant barriers of access, dissuasive rates, abusive penalties and things so we have been suffering the whole legislature. In the end, what this is about is an obsolete, interventionist model that in a colloquial way we have framed in this concept of the capitalism of friends, where there are privileged relations with companies for which it is much more comfortable to have good relations with political power than to strive to compete and innovate. In the end, who pays, who's the pagan? The consumer who is constantly being charged an inflated bill with more fees, more tolls, more depreciations and more things from a huge darkness despite its use being put into what is popularly known as the bill of light. A young friend of mine, who has a small technology star-up that also faces a lot of problems in order to be able to work because of the legal uncertainty and regulatory disaster in the field of telecommunications and the digital economy, explained it to me very well the other day. He said: If I am forced to pay a toll for using the power grid when I don't use it, it is as if I plant a tomato in my house and I am forced to pay a toll because there is a shopkeeper who sells tomatoes and although I don't buy them I have to pay because he sells them. Indeed, this is the question, is to live as always in the inopia of development and the advance of the economy and, in fact, instead of getting on that train to pull out of the productive economy and to have a decent economy based on innovation, on quality employment, on R & D, etc., we strive to remain a country that has the concept that here it competes on the basis of precarious employment, low wages and, yes, charging a lot of taxes to the whole world. It is clear that the disruption of energy policy leads you not only to stick to self-consumption, but to things so truly picturesque and striking - not to say scandalous - that recently the People's Party voted with Bildu in the Basque Parliament to ban fracking in the Basque Country. A really interesting thing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u32	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mrs Riera has the floor for the Convergence and Union Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this proposal for a law tabled by the Plural Left on self-consumption. A brief review of this government's energy regulation shows that the People's Party Executive is not about stimulating energy self-consumption. First of all, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a more general point. Already in Law 24/2013, of 26 December, of the Electrical Sector, it was clear that the regulator limited to the maximum the options of development of the self-consumption of electric energy, based on a vision to our negative and, at the same time, interventionist understanding. This view restricts the possibilities for significant development of the electrical self-consumption sector, as seen in the recent draft of the Royal Decree for the Development of Self-Consumption presented by the Government at the beginning of June. Ladies and gentlemen, this regulation of self-consumption impedes their progress and contradicts our approach in tune with Europe, which is to bet on a greater contribution of renewable energies to the system without entailing a regulated economic cost. It is hardly questionable that the electricity reform, far from encouraging self-consumption of electricity, has penalized it harshly, weighing it with a back-up toll; a toll, in our view, which is excessive, is of dubious regulatory validity and prevents the development of an emerging sector that constitutes a great business opportunity for the renewable energy sector. These energies, let us not forget, are punished by the moratorium on the implementation of new power generation facilities set out in Royal Decree-Law 1/2012 and confirmed sine die in the peninsular system by the electricity reform itself. The Government has neither in the electricity reform nor subsequently taken the opportunity to regulate the mode of self-consumption with a net balance over the annual period. It has not regulated it even though it is the case of countries in our environment as important as Holland or Germany and it has not regulated it even though it would be desirable if we wanted to develop a genuine policy based on the prices of unprimarily network parity and with investments made by final customers and with prospects for the future of decreasing investment costs associated with the learning curves of the main technologies of electricity generation with renewable energies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, when one takes stock of the regulation that this government has promoted in the field of energy, one realizes that, rather than promoting self-consumption, the Executive has preferred to turn its back on it and impose enormous technical and economic restrictions that prevent self-consumption from being a reality today. This has been done at the expense of the large number of positive contributions that self-consumption can make to the electrical system such as the contribution to demand management, the flattening of the load curve, the reduction of transport and distribution losses, the reduction of saturations in distribution networks, the contribution of solar photovoltaic energy to the coverage of the peak demand in summer or the reduction of investments in the distribution network, among others. This, in our opinion, is a misconception. Ladies and gentlemen, my second consideration focuses on the European framework and, in this regard, isolating self-consumption, the Government is moving away from Europe and from the warnings also of the National Securities Market Commission. In fact, it is not only a disappointment in our view, but the government has to assume that by putting obvious obstacles to the development of self-consumption, as it has done, it is challenging the fulfilment of the European renewables targets, which set a 20% share of the total energy consumption. In this sense, the CNMV itself stated a few days ago in its report on the proposal for the planning of the electricity transmission network 2015-2020 that in order to achieve the objectives of electricity generation with renewable sources it is essential to have self-consumption. The third issue I want to share is that we believe that we need to take this bill into consideration and we will vote on it, but without marginalizing cogeneration. I stress this aspect which is crucial to us because we have always defended the role of cogeneration in the service of industrial competitiveness and especially SMEs. In the context of my third argument and for everything I have put forward, I repeat that we are in favour of stimulating and promoting self-consumption and we welcome the consideration of this bill because it addresses this issue from the root, that is, by proposing an amendment to the articles of the Electricity Act which refer to the bases of self-consumption of electrical energy. We believe that it is also a timely proposal because of the recent presentation of the second draft of a real self-consumption development decree which, rather than favouring it, limits it. In addition, we believe that this proposal for a law is positive and appropriate to the extent that it involves regulation of the future in line with European dictates. That is why we believe that it should be taken into consideration and debated. In conclusion, however, I would also like to point out that, if this proposal is accepted, we would consider it appropriate to identify certain issues that arise, among which it would be of utmost importance to avoid leaving out the cogeneration of the regime applicable to self-consumption of electrical energy, as I said earlier. I repeat that this is a technology of high energy efficiency generation and with a significant impact on industry, as I mentioned earlier. In any case, despite the fact that we consider it essential to highlight cogeneration as always defended from our ranks, we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration because we essentially share the content of it and, above all, because we believe that the bet on self-consumption is today an irreparable and irrevocable necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u35	Thank you, Madam President. That Spanish consumers generate and consume their own energy has become an unattainable utopia and a totally unworkable option in our country. The European Council of 22 May 2013 urged European consumers to claim their ability to increase their rights to self-production and self-consumption, but in Spain deaf ears have been heard. Ladies and gentlemen, self-consumption is much more than a form of energy production. It has countless positive externalities that I will put in value to show our position in favor of the processing as a bill of this proposal that it presents today in the Chamber The Plural Left. I am going to turn to some of these positive effects that we cannot give up on economic, social or environmental issues. Although all the arguments are interrelated, I will start with economic reasons and the consequences that an adequate development of self-consumption can have on the competitiveness of our economy. Firstly, I would say that it can make a significant contribution to reducing energy costs for industry and the services sector, firstly because it can be cheaper to produce and, also, because it can lead to lower prices in the marginal energy market. On the other hand, it introduces competition in a sector characterised by the concentration of business in a very small number of operators, that competition which has often been claimed by the regulatory and competition bodies. Self-consumption can also improve the trade balance, because it reduces the energy dependence of the outside world and, lastly - but not least - it contributes to the advancement of an industrial sector with much added value, with many possibilities to continue to grow and with a great capacity to generate employment, not only in the industrial sector, but also in the auxiliary services sector, such as the whole development of energy service companies, smart grids, and the development of smart cities, etc. Apart from these economic reasons, there are also major social reasons which are of great importance to the Socialist Group. Self-consumption can be a key tool in the fight against energy poverty. Moreover, as I said before, the development of this sector can generate thousands of jobs and thus fix population in rural territories. This means social and territorial cohesion, one of our basic principles. But there is a central issue for Social Democrats, a central issue for our group, and it is that self-consumption has the capacity to empower citizens and expand their portfolio of civil rights with a new right, the right to generate and consume your own energy. In addition to economic and social reasons, there are also environmental reasons. We have just learned, as the proposing group has explained, that Spain will not meet the targets for the deployment of renewable energy by 2020. We have seen an unacceptable halt to the development of renewable energies, being particularly serious for a country that was among the world's leading powers in this sector. Self-consumption can contribute definitively to energy efficiency, not only on consumption, but also because it avoids losses in transport networks. It can also contribute to reducing pollutant emissions to the atmosphere, and with the new battery storage technology an exponential development of electrified transport can be made. Finally, I could continue to talk about these positive externalities, but given the obvious competitive advantage that a fair and balanced implementation of self-consumption would entail, rather than encouraging it, as the countries of our environment are doing - as the United States or Japan are doing - the People's Party government in Spain has taken the opposite path, and is doing everything possible to make self-consumption in Spain impossible. Once again, the Government has deafened these messages from Europe and only listens and obeys the messages that go against the well-being of citizens. The Government legislates against citizenship, against the competitiveness of companies, against the renewable sector, and even wants to go against technological development. As much as they want to stop it, the development of self-consumption is unstoppable; it is unstoppable because it is good and because technology exists. Wanting to stop self-consumption is as much as wanting to stop social media or wanting to stop the development of the Internet. We cannot do this, because it is not reasonable, because it is not fair, and that desire is demonstrating that the Government is once again defending the interests of a few against the interests of the majority. By the way, this Government, when it was in opposition, criticized legal insecurity and defended the opportunity of renewables, but it has been arriving at the Government and undergoing a complete metamorphosis. They have wanted to put a patch back on the electrical system, but they are not aware that it is very difficult to fix this tantrum. It is impossible to plan the electrical system on the basis of small retouchings; although this bill by La Izquierda Plural does not allow the complete disguise to be fixed, it is possible to improve the situation of self-consumption in this country, a situation to which we must respond, because it is paralysed by the legal uncertainty we are talking about and because these two drafts that the Government has drawn up have made it impossible to invest, because it is not known how many years the investment will be able to amortize. What they have done has been dissuasive propaganda, as with this new draft they are setting a repayment period that doubles that of existing legislation. Moreover, the government's obligation to self-consumption facilities to contribute to the costs and services of the system in the same amount as the rest of consumers, by paying tolls or charges, as they now call it in this new draft, is simply intolerable, a grab on the consumer's pocket. The National Energy Commission and the National Competition Commission at the time qualified this toll as novel, unjustified and discriminatory, which prevents effective competition in the sector and the incorporation of new operators into the electricity system, and call for a non-discriminatory, unnecessary or restrictive regime for self-consumption. It is true that the CNMC has not yet pronounced itself, but we assume that the report will not be very different, bearing in mind that the decree has not changed in its essence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is in favour of a net self-consumption regulation. My colleague José Segura, spokesman for the Committee on Energy, defended a GNP as early as 2013 and drafted an amendment to Article 9 of Law 24/2013 on the electricity sector, in which he clearly established the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this matter. Our proposal as a Socialist Group is that prosumers, as they are now called in the European jargon, should be governed by the net balance-sheet system, which consists of deducting, in annual calculation, the economic value of surplus energy poured into the network by the installation of the prosumer of the amount of access to networks and charges associated with the costs of the system to be paid each year. That is, whoever has a self-consumption installation uses the energy you need and the rest deposits it on the network, but when you need energy because your installation is not enough to take over the system. The prosumer, of course, takes charge of the fixed term, for the costs associated with the operation of the system. This is the system we consider fair and equitable. This, which seems so simple, does not want to be accepted by the Government, and the most curious thing is the argument they use: they want to label those consumers who choose to generate their own energy, even though they pay what they have to pay for a fixed term of power; that is, despite contributing to the maintenance of the networks. The Socialist Group understands that the real insolidity is that of a government that allows energy poverty to occur, that of a government that obviouss that the electricity system is key to the fight against climate change, that of a government, therefore, that forgets the intergenerational solidarity to defend the indefensible, to defend those who do not need politics or the governments to move forward. In short, we generally agree with what the Plural Left Group proposes and will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Lucio. For the People's Group, Mrs Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and I announce to you our vote against this proposal for a law on energy self-consumption by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. It is a proposition of electoral law and involves some perversion because it alters the natural order of things. I say this without offense - do not misunderstand me - and with all due respect. The normal order would have been for the Government to present the royal decree to the House for debate and voting, but you have chosen to amend a royal decree that has not yet seen the light, which has not yet been approved by the Government. To this day there is a draft royal decree establishing the regulation of the administrative, technical and economic conditions of the modes of supply of electrical energy with self-consumption and production with self-consumption, a project that is currently in public information period, until tomorrow, 24 June. It is normal that when the final text is adopted by the Government, it will be brought to this House. I am convinced that it will be a good complement to that political work that the Government has done in the field of energy, this government whose energy policy is based on three basic pillars: it has achieved the financial sustainability of the Spanish electricity system, environmental sustainability and the guarantee of supply that allows our country's competitiveness. We have to remember, ladies and gentlemen - we say this constantly, but we must continue to remember this - that this government has encountered a cost of EUR 26 billion of tariff deficit that came from past legislatures, a deficit that has been forced to reduce and eliminate in order to prevent the collapse of the electricity system. It is the first government to return 400 million euros in the electricity bill of all consumers in Spain and it did so in the first quarter of 2014; a government that has reduced the electricity bill - between 2008 and 2011 the bill is increased by 67% while in 2013 it is reduced by 3% and in 2014 by 4%, and this is what the National Institute of Statistics says; a government that has imposed taxes on the generation of those energy industries with the greatest environmental impact, that has been done by this government; a government that favours liberalisation in the hydrocarbon distribution sector, and - take note because this is important - a government that has made it a priority for the Council of Europe to promote interconnections between the Iberian peninsula and the rest of Europe, interconnections that are fundamental to the development of renewable energies. With this background, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the proposal for a royal decree adopted by the Government will allow for self-consumption of energy and will establish a regulatory framework to regulate self-consumption while ensuring the sustainability of the system. I have listened carefully to the speeches of your ladies and gentlemen, and both Mr Gorriaran, who is not present right now, and Mrs Lucio referred to that legal certainty; legal certainty is what this sector needs and what this Government is giving, and he will certainly do so with the actual decree that is being presented and adopted at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to another important point: the particular interest that self-consumption is going to have - they will agree with me - in the Canary Islands, in the Balearic Islands, in Ceuta and Melilla. It will reduce the costs of the electricity system as a whole, but we have to analyse what any consumer who connects to the network pays. Pays for three concepts. First of all, for the energy it consumes. Secondly, there are the back-up costs offered by the system and the use of the networks, as we all know that renewable energies must be equipped with a backup or backup technology that allows the system to continue to be supplied if the system fails - if there is no wind or if there is no sun. And thirdly, there are taxes. Therefore, it seems logical to think that the self-consumer who will make use of the networks will contribute to their maintenance, otherwise it would be the most vulnerable consumers would bear the fixed costs of the system, which the self-consumers would not pay. Self-consumption cannot be developed, as this bill proposes, at the cost of a transfer of income from the most vulnerable consumers to those with the greatest purchasing power who will be able to invest in a self-consumption facility. We all think about housing, cottages to which the most vulnerable consumers will hardly have access. I'm gonna wrap this up. Self-consumption, yes; and that all consumers are on an equal footing and there are no subsidies between them. See if we believe in self-consumption that is going to be regulated so that there is - as I said earlier - legal certainty and avoid the uncertainty of regulatory risk. But, I insist, we will wait to hear the final text of the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u39	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, that of the People's Parliamentary Group on Spanish participation in the United Nations Security Council during the period 2015-2016. For your presentation, you have the floor, Mr. Beneyto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations remains the most important body of global legitimacy, key to international peace and security, the promotion and protection of human rights and sustainable development. The United Nations system mobilizes about $40 billion a year and has about 80,000 people working at its service. The United Nations contributes to peacekeeping with nearly one hundred thousand blue helmets deployed on seventeen operations on four continents; provides food to 90 million people; assists 36 million refugees; actively fights poverty, and over the past thirty years has helped 370 million people below the poverty line to live a better life. Our presence in the Security Council is a consequence of our country's clear commitment to multilateralism and the principles and purposes of the United Nations. It was a great success that more than two thirds of the members of the United Nations voted for our candidacy, which improves Spain's international position and reputation and undoubtedly makes it a collective enterprise that needs everyone's effort to achieve a successful outcome: Government, Parliament, the media and civil society. The People's Parliamentary Group presents this non-legislative proposal, by which it congratulates the Government on its efforts and the work carried out to date in the Security Council, and also urges it to keep pace with the efforts made in a number of objectives that we would like to highlight. First, the revision of the working methods of the Security Council to make it more transparent, representative, effective and accountable to all Member States. This means, for example, encouraging regional agencies and affected countries to contribute to solutions or calling for more effective evaluation meetings followed by briefings, wrap-up sessions, informal briefings, briefings on prospects for the future, etc. In short, greater transparency, monitoring and evaluation of the Council's work. Nor should the Government obviate the thorny problem of Security Council reform and try, with all difficulties, to be ambitious there. As a country, we are in the United proposal for consensus. We must make progress on the four points that this group promotes: the extension of the duration of non-permanent mandates, not to increase the membership of the Security Council, the limits to the veto and the change in relations between the Security Council and the General Assembly. The second point we point out in our non-legislative proposal is to continue the promotion and defence of human rights in a preferential way on the agenda of Spain in the present mandate of the United Nations Security Council. Spain has a special responsibility in colliding the humanitarian record of Syria, a particularly delicate and complex situation. The human rights component must be taken into account in all consultations and declarations with different countries, including in coordination with the European Union and the Council of Europe, which carries out an essential regional task in the protection and defence of human rights. We welcome the Foreign Minister's gesture to cancel the parliamentary trip to Indonesia for the death sentences that have been handed down in that country. The third point that we would like to emphasize and urge the Government to continue to promote a new resolution on women, peace and security that replaces 1325 and promotes the active participation of women in peacebuilding processes and the fight against impunity in the face of crimes of sexual violence in conflict. In particular, we are referring to conflicts in which there is an OMP deployed. This means strengthening the mandates of peacekeeping operations and requiring prior training, including many initiatives, for military peacekeepers. It will be particularly important for Resolution 1325 to be revised in October, under the Spanish Presidency, and we urge the Government to carry out the necessary work. The fourth point is to promote the fight against terrorism in all its forms and to listen to the victims. A briefing on foreign terrorist fighters took place on 29 May in the Security Council, and here we want to support the Government in a number of initiatives, in particular the establishment of the new Counter-Terrorism and Organized Crime Intelligence Centre and the adoption of the National Strategic Plan to Combat Violent Radicalization. The meeting on this subject in Madrid at the end of July is also particularly important. The fifth point we want to emphasize is to maintain a prominent role in the field of mediation and conflict prevention. The Government should continue its efforts in the Mediterranean mediation initiative, together with Morocco, at King Abdullah International Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue in Vienna, in the Alliance of Civilizations, in participation in mediation processes, for example, dialogue between democratic and opposition forces in Syria, and ultimately offering good offices to United Nations special envoys, as was the case in Syria under the experience of the Cordoba Group. The sixth point we would like to highlight is to urge the Government to promote the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, with particular reference to non-State groups, within the framework of Resolution 1540. It is particularly important that the 1540 Committee on the Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, plus the chairmanship of two other committees, on sanctions against North Korea and Iran, have been attributed to our country within the Security Council. We must contribute to reducing the number of countries that have not yet reported on the implementation of Resolution 1540, monitor the monitoring of sanctions against North Korea in a very sensitive context and promote the Review Conference on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and monitoring the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Treaty in Syria. The seventh point is to defend in the Security Council the establishment of participatory frameworks to take into account new threats, such as climate change or cybersecurity. I would like to stress that for the first time the Ebola epidemic has led to the creation of the Unmeer, the first mission created by the Security Council in response to a model crisis. The Government should also continue to contribute to the success of the December Paris Summit on Climate Change. Finally, on the eighth point, we would like to highlight the efforts made by the Government and at the same time, from the parliamentary sphere, to contribute to support for the governmental tasks and to consolidate the communication policy being carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the activities of meetings and negotiations within the Security Council. In this regard, with regard to the implementation of the programme of Spain's presence on the United Nations Security Council, with the ten points that were pointed out at the time, we would like to emphasize the importance of carrying out the strict implementation of this programme - as is being done - with regard also to the revision of the MPOs that are currently deployed throughout the world. In short, I would like to congratulate the Government on the effort and work being done, for this great opportunity for our country to be a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council at a time when crises and geopolitical conflicts are intensifying. There are many voices alerting us to the situation we are in and the work being done should be supported, as it is at all times, through the appearances of the Minister, the secretaries of State in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the presence of the spokespersons of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Security Council; in short, it should count on the support of parliamentary diplomacy in all the tasks that the Government is carrying out in the Security Council. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u41	Thank you, Mr. Beneyto. In the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban, first of all, to fix positions. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u42	I'll speak from the seat because it won't take me long, Madam Vice President. In fact, as usual on Tuesday's third point, this is another initiative for the government, and the truth is that it doesn't have much pussy either. On 11 February we had a meeting in the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the various parliamentary groups, at the request of the Foreign Minister. At that meeting, he explained to us what the Government's action plan - it is true that it is for him - was in the Security Council. And not only that but he also gave us a nice copy, edited very correctly, in full color, that we have parliamentary spokespersons. There the minister was told that this was very good but we wanted to create a method so that there would be regular appearances and we could go and discuss what is being done, but we have not heard anything from the method again. We have met with this initiative that all it does is reproduce what the Government had already proposed in the beautiful publication. Therefore, in order to tell the Government how well the Commission has already done so, do not count on our votes because we are not going to participate in this vote. However, as urged by the Government, considering that Spain had a special interest in taking over the humanitarian file in Syria - in fact, it has taken over this - we still do not know what is happening with the promise of 2012 to host 260 Syrian refugees. What we do know is that with the increased crisis of refugees - not only Syrians but mostly Syrians - coming from Libya to the European Union, the Spanish Government states that it does not agree with the quota of the European Union. That is, we take the portfolio, we take the dossier, we commit ourselves to human rights, but we are still one of the countries that is not reaching an agreement on these quotas. On the other hand, recently, on 17 June - nothing so far, last week - there was a meeting on peacekeeping operations and the representative of Spain spoke. Again and again, representatives of the political groups of Congress and the Senate are telling him that peacekeeping missions, and especially in the case of Western Sahara, should be concerned with the maintenance and protection of human rights, both on one side and on the other side of the line, but there was absolutely nothing in the intervention of the representative of Spain. He spoke about the process of reviewing the MPOs, the need to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of mandates, to provide contingents with adequate training, new technologies, but nothing about what had been requested of them, and it would certainly have been good if that topic had been discussed in the United Nations Security Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u43	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when you ask who decides on behalf of the international community, of its almost two hundred countries - one hundred and ninety-five - the answer to the United Nations Charter is very clear: in all matters of peace and security it is, in the first place, the Security Council and, failing that, the General Assembly. It is therefore clear that supporting Spain's presence, as our group does, in the Security Council because it is a matter of State is something that coincides with our trajectory. But it is true that our presence as an elected member of the Security Council is somewhat paradoxical because, on the one hand, one is surprised that with the insufficiency and under-staffing of human resources, material financial resources, etc., of the foreign administration of the State - and I do not say so myself, but rather that we have been said by the Foreign Ministers of the People's Party and the Socialist Party - we have obtained sufficient support to be an elected member, but it is even more surprising that, in the face of this under-staffing of resources that place us, roughly, at the level of a country like Holland, we find that there is a permanent expansion and redundancy of resources destined for external action by the autonomous communities. It is a good thing that during this parliamentary term a law on external action has finally been drawn up which seeks not to stop this irrefutable expansion of the autonomous administrations, but at least to impose coordination directed by the Central Administration of the State in foreign matters because it is the latter - exclusive competence, according to the Constitution - who is responsible for it. Of course, we support the guidelines that have been indicated, but we should also point out some shortcomings or omissions that appear in that non-law proposal. First of all, they continue at this point in time to lose sight of the Alliance of Civilizations when, given the failure it has assumed at the international level since all countries, the great powers, have formally supported the Alliance of Civilizations but the only countries that have put resources on the table for this project have been Spain, Turkey, Iran, etc., the truth is that it should already be past water. On the other hand, we are surprised that Spain's guidelines for action as a member of the Security Council have not included the growing security problem linked to the issue of refugees and displaced persons, a problem that strikes, as we are seeing every day in the media, the security of the borders of the countries of the European Union, and not just of them, but that obviously directly hits our own security. The same could be said with regard to the security commitment of certain regions or countries which, in some cases clearly failed States, are ultimately affecting the security even of Spain. We will start in the Mediterranean on the case of Libya, because the case of Syria has been discussed, but the case of Libya has been omitted, not to mention, as far as the Middle East and the Middle East are concerned, the expansion of the Islamic State and how that is altering the balance not of security but of insecurity that we have been engaged in for decades in the Security Council. And what about the Sahel and the growing insecurity that is occurring in countries such as Mali, Niger and Boko Haram in Nigeria, and of course never forgetting that in the heart of Europe itself, in Eastern Europe, there is a civil war in Ukraine and there is a potential risk that this will move to other areas, such as Moldova. Finally, we need to make reference to something because we are looking to the past. The fight against terrorism today at the international level is no longer the fight against terrorist organizations, it is the fight against networks that have been articulated between terrorist organizations and international criminal organizations. Such coexistence, collaboration and sometimes integration is the new horizon of threats for which, by the way, the structures and bodies of the Security Council created for the fight against terrorism have already become obsolete. It would be good for Spain to introduce an initiative to update the international fight against organized terrorism-crime. I believe that these are all lines that Spain should incorporate into the Security Council, although obviously, as I have pointed out, we will be in favour of this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u45	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u46	Thank you, President. I will try with my intervention to dismantle two fallacies in which the non-legislative proposal presented today by the People's Party is based. The first is that the programme that the People's Party Government taught and told the Foreign Committee is Spain's State policy in the Security Council. No, no, It's a state policy, it's your state policy. The People's Parliamentary Group shared it, told us, but pushed forward with its original proposal. The second fallacy is to think that they are doing well and that Spain is leading the key issues being discussed in the Security Council. Negative. It's not like that. That must be said still low, because it would be cruel to judge the whole biannual period by the experience so far accumulated, but it does not point well. They have time to rectify, and I hope that this debate will help them to take note and we can have a dialogue. When the House dealt with the Foreign Action Act, our parliamentary group tabled an amendment to the whole with alternative text and also partial amendments. Part of these amendments was the will to collectively develop foreign policy and the role of parliamentary chambers, Congress and the Senate. The People's Party dropped all those amendments. Therefore, these chambers today, by political decision of the People's Party, do not have a greater political role in defining Spain's foreign policy strategies. You say in your preamble: maintain the degree of consensus. But I ask: how is consensus built, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? The consensus is built with three elements. Firstly, the information. I will not repeat the intervention of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party. The information can be improved. Let's leave it there. Secondly, the debate within the parliamentary framework. For the time being, amendments calling for a greater role for the parliamentary framework have been tabled. And thirdly, the synthesis, but the synthesis always takes place on the basis of the expression of political plurality and you in foreign politics have applied the roller of the absolute majority of the People's Party. It will therefore be their synthesis, the internal synthesis of the People's Party, but not the one that recognizes the plurality of the political positions of this House and of Spanish society. The Government has informed the Foreign Affairs Committee of its programme of action, so we are talking about the fact that - you know very well the debate that took place on 11 February - not all parliamentary groups agree with the programme. I would say that the People's Party and some other group are represented on this programme, the rest of the House, no. Many of us were critics with important parts of the Spanish performance, and now we are already judging facts, and that's what I'm going to do. For example, we are talking about the ideological prejudices that accumulate the program presented by the People's Party. - I'm not stretching out. We are talking about asking for concrete leadership on issues that are core, for example, the refugee issue where Spain with the right hand speaks of leadership in the United Nations, and with the left hand in the refugee issue has an unsensical attitude that is retracted in the European debate on refugee quotas. Therefore, we cannot lead, we do not set an example, but within the framework of the European Union we are in the queue to deal with this gigantic problem that we have at the moment. We are talking about leadership in the Sahara conflict, but the French Republic has leadership.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u47	Mr. Nuet, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u48	I'm finishing up. He said that the French Republic has leadership, although Spain is historically responsible in the case of Western Sahara, but we in the United Nations with regard to Sahara have taken note of the French and American attitude. We haven't led. When the Mediterranean role in the mediation of Morocco is mentioned as an objective, tell Morocco to start with Western Sahara, playing the leading role, because it is difficult to attribute it in the Mediterranean framework if it does not apply to the occupied territories of Western Sahara. Thirdly, we are talking about not making NATO membership of our country incompatible with some strategic decisions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u49	Mr. Nuet, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u50	I'm done. And I ask: within the framework of the United Nations, do we agree with the 250 American tanks that have moved to the borders of the Russian Federation? What are we playing at? War?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u51	Mr. Nuet, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot make us properly lead sensitive issues within the framework of the Security Council. Therefore, some of your sentences are correct, others are not meeting them de facto and, overall, we cannot vote in favour because your proposal is not credible.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u54	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, another spokesman, Mr Esteban, has said this before: we are in what I call a proposal not of botafumeiro law. The support group comes to the government and starts throwing incense when it says: We're doing very well and we're going to continue doing very well! Well, okay. In their motion they speak of dialogue, solidarity and commitment. - I'll repeat myself with some spokesman. Solidarity and commitment. I will tell you with a metaphor: there are two types of solidarity and commitment. When preparing a dish of eggs with bacon, there is solidarity and commitment on the part of the pig and the chicken. But you will understand that the commitment made by the pig is far superior to that of the chicken in the eggs with bacon. You understand, don't you? Exactly what kind of compromise are you going to make or are you taking on the United Nations Security Council? An example like that of Italy, with Operation Mare Nostrum, coming out of its jurisdictional waters, rescuing refugees, hosting them in your country? Or that of the sad experience of the absolutely limited Frontex case, which allows people to drown at the gates of Europe? It should be a commitment to the Italian, the willow style, to understand me, and not the chicken style. In the case we are dealing with, in the case of refugees, you simply refuse to speak. In the case of the Syrian refugees, we are talking about refugees who no longer run away from poverty; we are talking about people who run away, but behind them is not that there is poverty, but that there is rape or a machete. And you say you don't want to talk about it. This is no longer a chicken commitment, it's a blind chicken commitment, if I may, which is even worse. Let's also talk about geostrategy. In recent years, the international situation has not improved. If we took Western Europe and made a great C backwards, from the Maghreb, the Gulf of Guinea, the Sahel, continuing through the Middle East, Iran and then the Russian-Ukrainian zone, we would define a great C reversed where there is absolute insecurity involving Western Europe. A strong commitment to the Baltic tension is also needed. The only safe border that would find an aircraft that would fly over Europe at this time so as not to cross dangerous territory would be if it were to go to the Arctic or if it was to cross the Atlantic. Any other border in the other direction has an element of danger. In this geostrategic situation is the world. Are we going to make a commitment to the boar or are we going to make a commitment to the hen? The United Nations authorized an intervention in Afghanistan because there was a danger of camps training terrorists in Afghanistan. For this very danger of camps is not now in Afghanistan, it is two hours by plane from the Spanish State; or not two hours, because perhaps it is two minutes from the computer of a gentleman who is next door connected to the Internet. In this kind of thing, is our commitment going to be a boar or a hen? You also speak of solidarity. That also means loyalty to the allies and let us hope that it is also there. Can we be helping formally democratic regimes, but invading their neighbours? We understand that no, and we all know who we're talking about. Can we help countries - using an expression from Mr Olabarria - not failed but that have many failures, giving them training and armament? It can be very delicate; these weapons, this training can then be left in the hands of Islamist guerrillas. Leaving them in pairs is just as delicate because then they will become failed States.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u55	Mr. Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u56	I'm done in ten seconds, President; thank you for your tolerance. Therefore, these people need security, but not only military security, but also legal security, courts, schools and above all future; future, Minister, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. Hinduism says that the only sin that is not forgiven is to extinguish hope in the hearts of men. I suppose the greatest of virtues must be to kindle hope in the hearts of men and nations. That's the script they should push. This is the last sentence, President. Let us hope that either your Government or a good Government of the Spanish State will not have a chicken commitment in the future in the Security Council, but that it will have a firm commitment from a solid guinea pig not to use the other expression.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u57	Thank you, Mr. Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Party is bringing us a non-legislative proposal to promote and support the work of Spain within the United Nations Security Council. As you know, the Socialist Group has been supporting from the very beginning both our country's own candidacy for that post and the efforts being made within it. As it could not be otherwise, we will vote in favour of this initiative, although I must point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we would have liked something more concrete in it and also something more ambitious in the approach to its objectives. As the non-legislative proposal that we are debating today - the minister has already appeared last February to present to the Foreign Affairs Committee of this House the priorities for action as a member of the Security Council - very briefly focuses on two points: in the organic field in dealing with the reforms and the pending working methods and participation frameworks, as well as other issues relating to improved communication and greater transparency of the work of the Security Council. And in the field of policies, human rights, mediation in conflict resolution, the fight against terrorism and gender issues are highlighted. This, in a nutshell, is what the Minister has told us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We generally agree with the approach taken, but there are some observations that need to be made, as we have had occasion to put forward in the Commission, but we think it is appropriate to recall them. Firstly, on forms and procedures of work. It is well known that a process of reform of the composition, structure and functioning of the Security Council has been under way for decades, but that reform process is now being blocked. Although some restraint had been observed since the end of the cold war in the use of the veto power by the permanent members who had attributed it, various conflicts were currently threatening that situation. We have therefore not only failed to reform the voting procedure and the composition of the Security Council, but also those five countries are making use or abuse of that blockade through the veto. This forces us to maintain continuous contacts and productive dialogue with our natural partners. The Minister has already explained this on other occasions, the United Kingdom, France and Lithuania during 2015, as members of the European Union, and with the United States but also with other non-permanent members such as Chile and New Zealand. My question is, Minister: Are we taking advantage of the opportunity it represents, vis-à-vis the five major veto powers, to maintain their own diplomatic positions and initiatives? It is true that we have only been at the head of this relevant post for six months, but since it is here today, because it has had the kindness and deference to come to this debate of this non-legislative proposal, I would like you to explain to us how progress has been made in this direction. A non-permanent member is expected to have a special role and sensitivity in issues such as the defence of human rights and international humanitarian law, the protection of women and children in war conflicts, and the peaceful settlement of international disputes. - That's what non-permanent members are asking for. This reflection is linked to the priorities that have been set out in terms of concrete policies that today focus the attention of the international community and, in particular, of the Spanish Government, as the Minister has explained to us. My question again is, how have we made progress in these areas, such as the situation in Syria and the tragedy it has caused with millions of refugees and displaced persons, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the rise of radical jihadism or the situation in Libya? Do we honestly believe that Spain has proposed initiatives to tackle these very serious problems? I'm not saying it's easy, Minister. I too have been a minister and I know how complex it is to deal with not every single conflict that occurs, but with the steps that must be taken in it, but I would have liked a more proactive position when discussed within the European Union, for example, what to do in the Mediterranean and how to respond to the enormous migratory pressure from the Libyan coasts with thousands of people fleeing from war and hunger. I would have liked to see greater determination and commitment to human beings who suffer from racial or religious intolerance before the insolidary debate that we Spanish and European citizens have seen - a very short-term debate - on the so-called quotas to accommodate those who have nothing, who have lost everything and who need a little more solidarity. On the other hand, the deadline for the conclusion of the agreement between Iran and the 5+1 Group is also approaching now in July and, bearing in mind that Spain is the chair of the non-proliferation committee for that country, we would also like to know what Spain's role has been and what dialogue it has had with the great powers and with Iran. In addition, I would like to highlight some issues which we consider to be fundamental and which we do not see adequately reflected in this non-legislative proposal. Firstly, development cooperation. The Spanish chair on the UN Security Council should serve, as the Minister stated in his objectives, to boost and increase humanitarian aid. Let me be a bit critical here, too. It is difficult for a Government that has cut development aid - I know because of the economic crisis - to cut back international action on this point until its practice has disappeared. According to its own data, Spain will allocate some 17 million euros in 2015 to disasters and humanitarian emergencies. That's an insufficient figure. We've already told him, but we've repeated it. According to non-governmental organizations, this figure should be around 125 million in line with Spain's weight and importance on the international scene. A report by Intermón Oxfam, which I am sure you know, recommends that Spain should lead the Security Council by increasing the funds that each country devotes to humanitarian action. More than 51 million people in the world are displaced or refugees, 51 million people, and we argue for a few thousand in the quota.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u59	Mrs. Jiménez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u60	Yes, Madam President, I'm finished. The United Nations has called for the largest figure in history, $6.4 billion, to be raised in 2015 to meet this need. Have we made progress on this initiative, which is a United Nations initiative? Secondly, I would also like to ask about Spain's role in mediation, both in preventing and resolving conflicts, as this is another objective. I think of some conflicts such as that in Colombia, but also the persistent conflict between Russia and Ukraine and other more complex - I know that - such as that in Russia and the current situation in Libya. Finally, Minister, I would like to welcome the revision of Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. We hope to see progress and progress in an area that we consider essential for the development of international society as a whole, and in which Spain has on numerous occasions demonstrated its leadership and courage in the field of gender. At this point, we reiterate the cooperation of this parliamentary group while calling for the necessary space for the articulation of the necessary consensus for a modern country and a society that is increasingly participatory and in a profound process of change. Minister, I thank you for being here, because I am sure that all these rhetorical questions that I have had the opportunity to ask, on behalf of the Socialist Group, will be answered on time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez. Does the Minister intend to intervene? [[Consent]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u62	Thank you very much for all the speeches and thank you very much to the People's Group for having taken the initiative to present a non-legislative proposal - a ball proposal, according to some of the speakers in this House - which deals with an issue as uninteresting as what the Security Council is doing in a world as conflictive as this. I want to make a few notes and I will try to answer all the questions that have been put to me, although it is a difficult task because there has been talk here of discussions taking place in the European Union on asylum and immigration; there has been talk of internal policy, of bilateral foreign policy, of many things, and some speakers have been kind enough to refer to the policy that Spain is doing in the Security Council, which is the subject of the non-law proposal and is going to be at the heart of my intervention. As your ladies and gentlemen know, Spain joined the United Nations system seventy years ago. We have been present on four occasions in the Security Council; the last election was held on 16 October, after a ten-year campaign involving two Governments, the Socialist Party Government and the People's Party Government. Spain had 132 supporters, and since the representative of Convergence i Unió has referred to the financial means, I will explain them: Turkey had 250 million for the campaign and Spain had one million - that is called efficiency and expenditure control. If I mean that this is not a success - I have always said it and I repeat it now - of a party or a government; it is a success of the Spanish nation as a whole - one and diverse - and of the whole of Spanish society. The representative of the Basque Group has referred to transparency, and I will make some reference to this issue. I showed up the same day that I was leaving the printing press of the program, which is well done, it's beautiful, it's concrete, it's exhaustive, and the only thing I've earned is some derogatory comment that I can't share. In April, the Secretary of State for External Action appeared to make a first assessment of Spain's performance in the Security Council before any other member of the Security Council appeared before its respective Parliament. The Bureau of Diplomatic Information has hung eighteen interventions on the website, another thing is that it does not read them, but be, are. There have been two parliamentary trips, one from Congress and one from the Senate, but I am not going to mention it, and we want you to know firsthand what we are doing there, because we are actually doing very well. I would also like to refer to the resolution that was tabled in the State of the Nation jointly with the Ministry of Defence and which you know. What are we doing - and I'm going to some specific questions -? We are paying particular attention to the issue of terrorism, we are enhancing the preventive role of the Security Council. We will have a committee on terrorism in Madrid that will be attended by the victims of terrorism, whose voice we care about and must be heard; and there will be another meeting on terrorism coinciding with our presidency in October at the United Nations with a photo exhibition so that the public will know what terrorism has been, with the protagonist - I insist - of the victims of terrorism. We are chairing three committees. The former Minister of Foreign Affairs knows that these committees do not have one in the Tomb or are given them; they are three important committees: the 1540, on weapons of mass destruction, the 1718 on Korea, and the 1737 on Iran, a very fashionable issue, as your ladies and gentlemen can know. We have participated in the review of peacekeeping operations - sixteen -; we have participated in all the high-level debates - no other member of the Security Council can stand up in Parliament and say the same -; we have had an enormous participation in the review of legal challenges, especially climate change, which we will see in Paris. With regard to mediation, she knew that it had been a joint initiative of Spain and Morocco; many meetings had been held and, in New York, another would be held. We have renewed two missions, that of Afghanistan and that of Minurso. By the way, Minurso's being the US pen holder - the one who has a role, has a role - and that has been unanimously renewed, that is to say, I do not point out so much but I do not accept any demerits either. We are proposing a resolution on Nepal at a record time, and what matters to you from now on is what we are going to do. Today there is a meeting in Madrid, sponsored by Chile and Spain, on the responsibility to protect with the participation of the highest authorities of the United Nations. The Counter-Terrorism Committee is to be held in Madrid - I have announced it earlier, but I have not said it - on 28 and 29 July. There will be a broad meeting, with the participation of members who do not belong strictly to the Climate Change Council. We are going to ask, as you said, Minister, for an in-depth review, and possibly the drafting of a new Resolution 1325, on the role of women in conflict resolution. In the matters to which you refer, and which this House has adopted, we have followed with consensus. The Socialist Group presented a resolution on Palestine that supported all parliamentary groups, of course the group that supports the Government, the majority group, and so we are acting, as we are acting equally with regard to Syria and in all the missions we are discussing. Are we doing much or little on the Security Council? This is about the full bottle or the empty bottle. We participate in a group called the United for Consensus, which advocates a reform of the Security Council in one direction, which does not coincide with others. I come from Brazil right now to discuss with a country that leads an opposition that is not ours. If there's a blockade, we'll all have the blame, but we won't have it unilaterally. In this matter Spain will maintain its positions. There was a general who said that peace is always possible, just surrender. Be assured that this Government will not give up on this. We have had constant contact with the permanent representations of all the other countries, especially the other three Europeans, with the others of the Council and with all the countries that voted for us. It was a commitment that we had made in the programme with which we went to the selection of candidates, and we are doing so. The Sahel has been an important issue here for one of the interveners. Spain is today the most effective country in Mali, as it has 122. Spain participates today in the Central African Republic. Spain continues to participate in Afghanistan. Spain participates in Somalia in no less than three operations. And Spain is part of the mission that is going to Libya. I have not understood him very well if what he proposes is that we do not form the troops in Iraq or that we do form them. This willow and chicken thing and being and not being has led me to some confusion. The government believes that we have to support the troops of Iraq, who have to solve one of the greatest threats the world has, a threat that is called Daesh and that, as you know, is two hours off our coasts, in some cities of Libya. This Government never fails to fulfil its commitments, is loyal to its commitments, is loyal to its allies and assumes all the consequences of its actions. Madam President, I do not wish to fail to make any reference to an issue which has absolutely nothing to do with this debate, which is taking place in the European Union on asylum and immigration. They're different things. Asylum is designed for those who suffer persecution on political, ethnic or religious grounds - Geneva - and the legal basis is different. Another thing is emigration, which is an economic emigration. What the Government has said and continues to say is that the criteria proposed by the Commission to implement article 78 of the treaty did not convince us. The Commission says that there are four criteria: population, gross domestic product, unemployment or unemployment and effort made, and it weighs the population and gross domestic product, in absolute terms rather than in relative terms, at 40% each; and unemployment at 10% and the effort at 10%. Spain says that unemployment has to weigh more, for a very simple reason. A decent government, and this is it, wants to integrate into society, in our case Spanish society, to those who come, and the first thing to do is to provide them with a job, to give them education, health, social insurance, which is what requires their dignity. And you will understand that a country with an unemployment level of 23% does not have the same opportunities as another country with an unemployment level of 5%. That's why we say that's the weighting. But if this comes and we have to divide it into autonomous communities, we would apply those criteria. Secondly, we are saying that account should be taken of the effort being made not to create a problem for European partners. The data say that, in 2014 compared to 2013, the increase in illegal immigration in the Western Mediterranean - ours, which has a border with Morocco, Mauritania, Senegal, and which suffered waves of illegal immigration with previous governments - has increased by only 15% and in the Canary Islands has declined almost entirely. In the Central Mediterranean there has been an increase of 277 % in that period and someone will have to bear in mind - the Minister knows - that controlling immigration is not free, requires methods of surveillance, requires efforts of diplomatic cooperation and economic cooperation with the countries of origin and transit, and all we are saying is that account is taken of the effort we are making to avoid a problem for the other 27 members of the Union. Therefore, do not mix you chickens with raisins, bacon with eggs or grills with merinas. What we are discussing in the European Union, which has nothing to do with the Security Council, is the criteria. Indeed, since it is not an initiative, I will say that the first one that proposed it was Spain and that it has been followed by many of the countries, which have said that the Commission's proposal needs to be reconsidered. We are on the Security Council, I have not answered any other questions, I am sure I will be able to attend. You know that my availability is absolute within the time I am in Spain, but I want to tell you that you have at your disposal a page from the Diplomatic Information Office - I am a Taliban of transparency - where you will find everything that is being done, all the debates in which we participate, all the positions that we accept and believe me that others are more grateful to what we are doing in the Security Council than many of your ladies and gentlemen in these critical trials. Otherwise, to the People's Group, if it were to do the ball, you have done it divinely. Thank you very much. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u63	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr Nuet Pujals asks for the floor]] Mr. Nuet. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Esteban, if you want to ask for the floor, ask her.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u64	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u65	Well, then, please, if you don't mind, keep quiet. Thank you. Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u66	Madam President, for allusions to the Minister's intervention...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u67	You have two minutes, Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u68	Thank you, very kind. Minister, we have discussed this on many occasions. I am touched by their scruples at the wave of immigration that is trying to cross Europe's borders. You have been very scrupulous - you have said - in the will to integrate and therefore in creating filters to be able to integrate. So scrupulous they should have been and thought of before, before intervening in Libya or before supporting certain opposition in Syria, Minister, because that is the important cause on our borders of the wave of immigrants, who come from North-South conflicts and poverty-richness, but also from conflicts and military interventions where Spain has not been an angel of charity, but has participated. Be scrupulous in everything, but above all do not cause conflicts because then we will not have to cry their solutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u69	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Any other interventions? [[Pause]] Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u70	Mr Nuet, I was not in the government when it was decided to intervene in Libya. My group supported the intervention in Libya and my group believes that it is likely that we will have to intervene again in Libya as soon as we have a Council resolution at the request of the legitimate authorities, because letting Daesh's terrorism grow in Libya can destabilise the whole of North Africa and can put Spain's own security at risk. Therefore, I insist, I take my share of responsibility, but I am not responsible for the intervention that was made in Libya, my group supported it and I think the previous government did it well, but believe me that I am not to blame, as I am not to blame for Viriato's death. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON MEASURES TO PROMOTE A GREAT AGREEMENT ON THE EUROPEAN PUBLIC DUTY. [[File number 162/001163]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u71	We move on to the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left on measures to promote an agreement on the European public debt. Mr Garzón, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our group believes that what is happening in the Greek brother people is also happening to a certain extent and to a different extent to the Spanish people and the rest of the peoples of Europe. It is therefore important to bear in mind the debates that have been opened in recent months and those that have been opened with regard to the role of public debt. That is why we bring here this non-legislative proposal, which we believe sufficiently argued and justified for its discussion and approval in this Congress. In January this year, some representatives of this Parliament were witnessing the elections in Greece. More than six years had passed since the Troika had explicitly and implicitly intervened in Greece's economy by implementing austerity policies that condemned the population to cuts in health, education, social services, wage cuts and labour reforms that truly led to the emergence of semi-slavery in the labour market in Greece. We believe that that image should be continually in our routines. What we saw in Greece was a people who were revealing themselves against six years of cuts, revealing themselves against six years of neoliberal treatment of the crisis and revealing themselves against the misery, poverty and hunger that lived in the streets, of people lying in the middle of the street suffering the consequences of policies applied by a handful of bureaucrats in the European Union. That also highlighted the victory of a party that had not ruled until then, Syriza, which also brought the debate on public debt back up, a public debt that stood in 2007 at 103 % of Greece's gross domestic product and that after many years of application of cuts expanded to 182 % of the gross domestic product, which therefore grew spectacularly. [[The Lord]] This also reminds us of the Spanish situation, a situation in which at the beginning of the crisis, before we started, we had a public debt of 35% and that in 2014 it reached almost one hundred percent as a result of having implemented policies that were theoretically aimed at austerity, but that in the end what they were doing was to increase the debt, in addition to the social cost that we are explaining and that, in the case of Greece, it was even clearer. Consequently, the problem of the economy has never been public debt, either in Greece or Spain. As much as it could be in the Greek case at important levels, it was not the main problem, much less in Spain where the problem was private debt, a private debt that was transferred to public debt through financial bailouts, but also by a very particular means that we have seen in recent years. False rescues to the Greek economy have allowed the international financial system to transfer risks from private creditors to different States. This has been allowed and even promoted by the European Central Bank. Faced with what should be an education for all the parliaments of Europe, which is simply that after so many years applying the same recipe of cuts and cuts in public spending, cuts in pensions, rise in indirect taxes and rise in direct taxes, what we have on the table is a failure, a failure of society, a neoliberal society, and a failure of economy, because it turns out that public debt has been triggered, that gross domestic product does not rise and that neoliberal policies are therefore counterproductive in order to be able to pay the debt. We understand that it is necessary to pay a large part of the debt, but that only through a restructuring process will it be possible to even try to pay it, because only with policies totally different from those being implemented will it be possible to have the financial capacity to repay that debt. That's what the Greek people are demanding on the streets. That is what is happening in the streets of Greece, but also in our streets, because this debt cannot be paid under the current conditions, because it is impossible that that can be paid, and it also has a huge cost that we are already living on the streets not only of Greece but also of the rest of European peoples, especially of the south. We believe that it is important to reach an international and European agreement on debt that starts from an audit of public debt and begins to restructure with a view to maintaining a social state, which is being crushed by the excuse of debt payment. It is not possible that this European Union can continue to exist as such. It's impossible. The most profound contradictions of the economy lie within it, because it is leading the social majority to truly regrettable situations of hardship, and if the leaders of the European Union are not able to see it, it is simply that they do not deserve to be leaders of the respective peoples. We believe it is essential to have a high-level view to understand the gravity of the problem, to understand that what is at stake is a social order; a high-level view to understand that it is not crazy people who have arrived at the Government, that it is not they who have brought chaos, that chaos was already on the streets of Athens, on the streets of the rest of the Greek cities when Syriza arrived at the Government. This chaos generated in the streets, generated in the fields of labor, generated in the political communities, was brought by the governments that had implemented the neoliberal policies over and over again, which now come by the hand of a handful of bureaucrats again and an international financial mafia, more attentive to collecting the interests of public debt than to allowing a political community to develop its life with dignity. That is what is leading to an absolutely unsustainable situation and that is our reflection, the reflection of another brother people, the reflection of a social order that is changing. We understand that this European Union is not our European Union. We believe in a European Union that is the romantic union of the peoples of Europe, we do not believe in a European Union run by bureaucrats at the service of large financial companies, and that is unfortunately what we see on the streets. We understand that an absolute turn must be taken, an issue that appears in our non-legislative proposal. Let us bear in mind that what is happening in Greece is exactly what is happening in Spain. They are the same circumstances, different in quantitative degrees, but it is the same problem. Greece cannot pay, not on moral grounds but on technical grounds, its debt. Either it is restructured or it will continue to walk towards the social abyss, to a social abyss that has already opened the door to the far right in the Greek Parliament and that unfortunately this handful of bureaucrats is pushing with their absolute lack of vision towards European society, which I wish was the society of the romantic union of the peoples of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. An amendment to this non-legislative proposal has been tabled by the Socialist Group. Mr López Garrido has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was to be hoped that this debate would be overshadowed by the situation in Greece. Dramatic and tense negotiations are currently under way. Dramatic because the euro project, the economic and monetary union project is basically irreversible and the hypothetical departure of a country from the eurozone would be a very serious event, would mean the violation of two fundamental principles of the European project, such as solidarity and compliance with European law. It is true that austerity policies have been bad policies applied to drywood to combat the crisis. It is true that these policies have manifested themselves to the extent that they have increased the debt of the countries - of some more than others - and therefore there is no doubt that there is a part of the explanation of the difficulty of exiting the crisis, slow, laborious and with multiple wounds in the welfare state, but the proposal contained in the initiative of the Group of the Plural Left would in no way solve this issue, with going to a sovereign default or a systematic forgiveness of all the debts of the European Union, because it does not distinguish by practically equalising the situation of Greece with that of other European countries which have nothing to do with it. In fact, in many European countries, debt is not a problem when it is at interest levels almost equal to zero, the lowest interests in history. Then, in the non-legislative proposal, long-term solutions are proposed with the repeal or abolition of the treaties that since the beginning of the crisis have been in the direction of achieving greater economic governance in Europe, starting with the Stability and Growth Pact that is in the Treaty on European Union, that is, it is a virtually total repeal of European economic legislation. In short, if the approach of this non-legislative proposal were to be put into effect, the financing of the countries of Europe would immediately be suspended, it would automatically be a non-financing situation, there would be no access to markets with this type of proposal that appears in this initiative. We believe that the best way to digest a debt problem - which exists, of course - is through growth. That is the way to digest the debt problem, with growth, especially in Europe's peripheral economies. This requires productive investment and financing of productive investment, whether private or public, and, of course, from a public point of view, better financing through direct taxes than through constant indebtedness, which has undoubtedly been the great mistake of the last years of the twentieth century in the Western world, choosing debt rather than choosing progressive taxes. That's the formula. That is why we have tabled an amendment to replace the non-legislative proposal of the Plural Left Group to promote a European productive investment plan that expands the way open to the Juncker Plan - which is in the right direction, but which is clearly insufficient - in order to achieve sustainable growth, competitiveness, convergence and quality employment. We also propose that the Stability and Growth Pact be made more flexible, that the Commission, although not to say in the European Union, is already making it more flexible, but that it affects us all, and that this flexibility, consisting essentially in the fact that productive investments do not compute for deficit purposes, also applies to countries such as Spain, not only to virtuous countries which currently meet the deficit targets set out in the Treaty. We also propose that there should be an evolution in the mandate of the European Central Bank so that it is concerned not only with inflation - which, of course, is not very concerned either, because it is far from 2% - but also with growth and job creation, as the United States Federal Reserve is mandated to do. We have completed all this, Mr President, with a deepening of the governance of economic and monetary union, which is quite fashionable these days, as yesterday we met an interesting and ambitious document, the so-called five presidents' document for governance, for the achievement of economic and monetary union and which is a document on which we need to reflect. From this governance we highlight some issues that we have raised in recent times, such as the institutional strengthening of the Eurogroup - the eurozone will undoubtedly be the cornerstone of the future of the evolution of European integration - the creation of a European treasure that can issue European public debt, the mutualisation of the public debt of the States, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, the creation, at once, of the financial transaction tax to bring revenue to the European treasure, the harmonisation of tax bases on corporate taxes, which the Commission seems to be timidly facing, and the adoption of debt sustainability plans. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that productive investment is indeed needed to get out of this crisis at once, a crisis whose exit has become very difficult and that it leaves us with a legacy of unemployment and underemployment, a legacy of poverty and inequality, but of course we are only going to get out definitively of the crisis with more European integration, with more solidarity and with more confidence in the project of Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. For the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are speaking to position the Galego Nationalist Block in favour of this initiative of the Plural Left and we are going to do so because, while it is true that we have talked about these issues on different occasions and our group has also put forward similar initiatives, the non-legislative proposal that is being debated today seems to us opportune for two reasons which converge over time, on the one hand, the debate in the European Union on the Greek Government's approaches to the need to restructure the debt and, therefore, to modify the criteria that are currently laid down. Clearly, and according to the information emanating even from the meeting of European Presidents yesterday, the debate on debt restructuring is no longer so strange and there are even positions that we need to talk about the issue. Without ventured, of course, to say that the Greek Government's efforts on these issues will have the result that our group would like, we find very positive the fact that the Greek Government has raised this issue, in addition to many others, to improve the lives of the citizens of Greece. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, because, in view of the fact that once again - it cannot be otherwise - the Spanish State is going to fail to meet the deficit ceilings required by the European Union, we are already listening to voices calling for more reforms from the government, which is the same as saying more cuts. We as the Galego Nationalist Block ask ourselves the following question. If the two major groups, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, when they agreed in 2009 to amend article 135 of the Constitution to give priority to debt payment, had raised the need for debt payment in a different way from what was established, would we be in this situation of so much social impoverishment? As Mr Garzón said, what the Government has done with the policies emanating from Brussels, following the guidelines of that famous troika, is to impoverish citizens. It is true that the number of rich has increased, but it has been 40,000 compared to the millions of Spanish citizens who are in poverty and at this time in the most precarious job.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u77	Mrs. Fernández, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u78	I'm done, Mr. President. The Government and Funcas venture that there will be an increase in the CPI, but leave it to the consideration that it will be the increase in internal spending that will favor it. This is not the first time these forecasts have failed, because domestic consumption does not grow, and it does not grow precisely because of this impoverishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, greetings to all those present at my premiere in this rostrum with a mission in which I do not wish to over-deserved the image given so far by my predecessor of Geroa Bai, Uxue Barkos. As I go into flour, given the short time I have, I shall focus on one single idea, starting from point 2 of the proposal which is being debated here at this time, a proposal which I fully support. I would like to remind you that in your day I voted against this Constitution and today I would do the same again and for at least one more reason, that of the already reformed Article 135 mentioned in this point 2. It is a reform induced by the troika and which at the outset does not fit me with the proclamation heard here last week, according to which the majority parliamentary group puts people above all in their political concerns. Hearing it and sounding like a demagogy was all one in a first impression, but I don't like to be dragged by first impressions, so I wondered if I wasn't the wrong one and if I wasn't such a perfectly honest and honest statement. I come to the conclusion that yes, that I have to believe in the honesty and sincerity of such a proclamation, only that - perhaps this is more serious - the next conclusion to which this leads me is much more worrying. Given the effects on the vast majority of society of the troika's criteria of public debt, I had to ask myself a question already from another quote, from an anthropological quote, about the very conception of who are people underlying such a proclamation. Indeed, the one who continues to support these troika criteria and to proclaim the unequivocal priority of people at the same time is that he has a dangerous conception of who is a person and who is not in society. Only people would be successful people in the field that is and leave excluded from the human category the social dispossessed, the marginalized, the losers, the non-winners, who are the vast majority. They would only be people, according to that honest and sincere proclamation, a small elite of people, the people who are doing their August with these economic policies on public debt, accepted long ago with the constitutional reform, and without any popular endorsement, of the aforementioned article 135. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are faced with an important issue. Mr López Garrido, spokesman for the Socialist Group, said something I can agree with. He says the fundamental thing is to get out of the crisis. But we have to think about the zertarako, the for what, that is, what we are going to get out of the crisis for. To keep everything the same or to change towards a much more socially just model? I think that's the fundamental problem. You in your amendment have proposed a number of issues that allow everything to remain the same. They advance on certain social issues, but I don't think they go to the root of the matter. That is why we are going to vote on the original proposal, because we think it is at the root of the matter. It is not just about getting out of the crisis, but about getting out of the crisis to go to a much fairer social model, to go to another social model in Europe. We are talking a lot here about public debt, which is a fundamental element, and that public debt has to be paid, but we are not talking about social debt, which is also important, the social debt of many countries in the north with the countries in the south, both at the planetary level and at the European Union's own level. We are talking about the case of Greece, which is a very striking and scandalous case from the point of view of the management that has been made to date, but if we look at who is behind that management, we see that they are the same ones who are right now claiming that unfair debt. They are the same ones who have been leveraging a market-based system, forgetting people, a system that is now protecting German banking against other issues, not citizens. I believe that that is the fundamental element and that that is the element of reflection that we must pursue. Why do we want to get out of the crisis? To continue with a Europe that is based on the Europe of markets, which is increasingly approaching the zero point of the beginning of the European Union, that European Coal and Steel Community, when that was an instrumental issue to start walking, but to reach another goal? However, instead of moving towards a more social Europe, a Europe of citizenship, a Europe of peoples, a Europe centred on nature, it is turning back to the Europe of the pure market, forgetting people. That is the element that we from Amaiur want to underline. We are about to build a different Europe, a Europe that is people-based, a social Europe, a just Europe, a Europe of solidarity, a Europe in which social debt is the fundamental goal and concern, and not simply a Europe of markets that continually turns its back on the people who make up it. That is why we are going to vote for the non-original bill with this conviction that another Europe is possible and that we want to build it from that Europe of peoples, from the natural communities, from Euskal Herria in our case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garzón, I am sorry to have to say this, but this is the first time that a parliamentary initiative has far exceeded me, because I find it very difficult to defend my group's position on it. I hope you understand that and be able to explain it at least. To say something sensible in five minutes, from an economic point of view, on the multiple issues that arise is simply impossible. Laying the groundwork for a major agreement on European public debt requires another format and political calm, which at this point in the legislature is not possible. The Plural Left puts in this initiative a lot of deep, heterogeneous things, difficult to analyze as a whole which it is not easy to pronounce with a minimum degree of rigour. We can share the fundamental question that translates from the initiative, although it is not sufficiently explicit that it is the criticism of the economic policy of austerity implemented by the European institutions and demanded of the States. This economic policy has moved in the opposite direction, as we have said on more than one occasion, to the one applied, for example, in the United States, which has allowed them to leave the crisis a few years ago. However, Europe is still in this crisis today, and its institutions, through fiscal flexibility, have acted forced by reality, late and not always well at all. [[European Central Bank, European Union]] They have made fiscal criteria more flexible when reality showed that it was impossible to meet them. The European Central Bank has taken a long time to take a more active role in order to keep rates down and boost economic growth. An in-depth debate is absolutely necessary; however, this initiative mixes, in the opinion of the Basque Group, things on which it is difficult to express a certain opinion. In the explanatory statement it provides data on Greece and Spain as regards public debt and its evolution, mixing them to argue that the European Central Bank could have given cheaper money to governments instead of giving it to financial institutions. This, Mr Garzón, is not knowing very well what the role of the European Central Bank is and what its limits are; they can be reviewed, but the European Central Bank today cannot finance public debt or finance the states. On the other hand, adding, as it does, the aid to the bank, putting in the same bag the aid to the capital or contributions to the capital with the different guarantees, etc., seems unorthodox, except to offer an increased figure. Much has been helped by financial institutions, probably in excess, but it does not contribute much to the analysis adding heterogeneous things to give the feeling that it has been much more. To speak as he does also of the need for a European agreement to restructure the debt, not only public but - he says - also private, especially from the countries of the south, is almost, if I may, a real excess. It is true that the paper endures everything, but recognize me, Mr Garzón, that the approach is a little exaggerated. Mr Garzón, with his proposals, he shortens Tsipras and Syriza who are negotiating in Europe right now with many more possibleists, not with toasts to the sun. You at this point in time with your non-legislative proposal are betting on staying out of the European Union. If that's the case, you can tell us. I think it is a possibility; I do not say that it is not possible to be outside Europe. What you have told us about the romantic union of the peoples of Europe we would like, we would love to, but as Europe is today we see it a little far away. Frankly, today I believe that the urgency is to get out of the crisis, even though we will then have to talk about the revision of European social policy, which is also a pending issue; after getting out of the crisis we are sure that all these issues are re-thinkable. Today the urgency is to get out of the crisis; it is in what the Greeks and also the Spanish economy are in. Frankly, the adoption of the text that brings to this House would generate many concerns and incognites. Each of the points is questionable and certainly improveable, but addressing them, as I said, in a GNP seems a little excessive to me. To plan to repeal, as you do, the Stability Pact seems good to me, but it is a basic economic policy instrument of the European Union on which the European institutions and countries will have something or much to say. The reform of article 135 of the Constitution seems appropriate to us, since it does not bring anything positive to economic policy - as we said in its day - and constitutes an unnecessary restriction. His group also called for an audit of public debt in all countries. I suppose all countries, or at least most of them, will know the origin and nature of their debts. I don't think the end is not not paying or delaying; the idea has to be paying, not pointing at the ice bar. Only if it cannot - it could be the Greek case - would it have to help restructure the debt. Greece may need this restructuring in order to continue in the euro, because I believe it is important for everyone, and so that it can get out of the crisis as soon as possible. Each case is negotiable but - I insist, Mr Garzón, and I say it to you with appreciation - that seems a little too much. The implementation of a European stimulus plan has been called for on many occasions and we are convinced of its need, despite the fact that we all recently heard that Mr Juncker was coming...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u85	Mr. Azpiazu, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u86	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. ...with a magnificent plan, but he's left on the way. Let us hope that the idea of the Juncker Plan will be taken up again and, even if it is not in its initial formulation, which seems to have a long way to go, reformulate it so that Europe will indeed have a much more active role in the expansionary policy needed to emerge from this crisis situation in which we are in. For that reason, and in order to avoid confusion and misinterpretation, our group is going to vote against this initiative, which seems to us to be somewhat excessive; however, if we voted for points - we asked the Bureau - we would vote in favour of paragraphs 2 and 5 and we would vote against the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a paradigmatic example of a non-legislative proposal designed not to make a self-bomb, as has been pointed out in some previous case, to the government but to make a self-bomb - to the parliamentary group that is presenting it - but, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out, it ends up showing the inadequacies, if not ignorance, of the proposer. Clearly, who is not going to want to improve the conditions for exit from the European crisis; who is not going to want a great deal of agreement on the European public debt. The question is not whether it is desirable but whether it is feasible. The strong response, as little is known - and not much - of the European Union, is that in the Eurogroup area trying to bring together the eighteen on this public debt reorganization agreement is at least a quimera if not a temerity. When debates are held on issues as important as measures to be able to get out of the crisis and at European level - as has already been pointed out here - we must be minimally rigorous, we cannot walk with fallacies. For example, the issue cannot be raised in terms of: the deficit must be reduced at the cost of increasing the debt - a policy followed by the PP during this mandate -. That does not solve the crisis, it simply postpones it. We reduced the deficit today but postponed the problem to the next generation. Nor is the solution what the PSOE did in the previous mandate, which was: in order not to increase the debt increased the deficit. That was ruining us in here and now. Remember, in both cases the convergence criteria are breached because they include deficit and debt, 3% government deficit and no more than 60% government debt. At this time in the Eurogroup, there are almost four or five countries - including, of course, Germany - which do not meet 60% of the debt. They have all far surpassed this, including the example of Greece, with the government of Tsipras, which is already 180% of its debt. Therefore, from that analysis and, as has been pointed out, from putting public aid within the generic heading - something so generic, so little concrete in economic terms - capital contributions with guarantees and real debt, in order to say that we are actually above the billion in public aid - which is economically not to say anything precise - I am surprised that when we go to the text of the non-legislative proposal we propose things that are unlikely, for example, the repeal of the Stability and Growth Pact. It has already been pointed out here. What do we want? Ruin us all? Does it mean that the euro, the second world reserve currency, is not available, since around 30% of world reserves are in euro? Is that what we want? Another example is that this is as naive as seeking to launch a public debt audit in all countries. I suppose it refers to the countries of the Eurogroup or the European Union. That already exists. What do you think the famous black men of the troika are doing when they come to Spain to review the accounts to see if we are actually fulfilling the commitments we made, thanks to which a bank bailout was made? These are audits, international audits, carried out by the European Central Bank, the Commission and the International Monetary Fund. What different audit do we ask for? Is Arthur Andersen coming to do it, who broke up as an auditor, or Deloitte, who did the audit of Bankia? Are those the ones we want you to come and audit us? It is obvious that when such proposals are made, public opinion is being confused. That is why our group's vote will be against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Riera has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left to promote a great deal of agreement on the European public debt. We would like to point out that, in our view, there are issues in the operative part of this initiative that have been overcome by the latest developments. Even if we find in this initiative some point that we could understand and share, there are others that are absolutely in contradiction with what we believe is timely and necessary for the stability and sustainability of the economy. Firstly, I will make a brief reference to the aspects of the initiative that we do not share and with which we are most critical. I would like to highlight two, and I will refer first to the approach of the initiative which states that it would be beneficial for the European Central Bank to finance directly to the States, since they would have to pay a lower interest rate for their debt. Ladies and gentlemen, this principle leads us to deception. The fact that the European Central Bank directly finances the States is a practice expressly prohibited by the constituent rules of the ECB. In addition, changing this rule would be a perverse instrument for correct fiscal and monetary policy, as well as an incentive to increase deficits and public debt, placing an even heavier burden on future generations than the current debt levels themselves. The interest rate has already fallen considerably in the course of the year, reaching negative interest rates in the short tranches of the debt emission rate curves of different countries, even in the case of Spain. Therefore, it does not seem to us to be a rigorous proposal and we believe that its effects could be extremely damaging to the economy. On the other hand, another aspect which we consider critical and which we do not share is the operative part in which, in addition to urging the Government of the State to promote the repeal of the Stability and Growth Pact of the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty and the Euro Plus Pact, it is called upon to promote the repeal of any reference to the priority of debt payment, which was introduced in Spain with the constitutional reform of article 135. That is what points 1 and 2 of the initiative presented to us by the Plural Left Group, and we disagree. We would like to stress that when this proposal is made, it is not taken into account that removing this reference would not lead to a reduction in the debt priority in practice. As long as there are deficits to finance, new public debt can be issued, and this would be impossible without paying due attention to the financial burden of debt, as no investor would ever buy debt again. Therefore, it is neither possible nor desirable, and less now. With regard to the points presented by this initiative and which we believe have been overcome by events, I would also like to highlight two. The first is the proposal to restructure public debt by extending deadlines and reducing interest rates, as set out in point 4 of the initiative. The practice, the decline in interest rates thanks to the expansive monetary policy of the European Central Bank, is already achieving these effects, so we consider this measure to be out of place. Reality has already overcome these barriers which - we do not doubt - have been important, but which are part of the past and not of the present. On the other hand, a European economic stimulus plan is called for with funding from the ECB. Ladies and gentlemen, the Juncker Plan has this objective, to serve the economic stimulus, and the EIB's financing will have a relevant presence. In any case, it is now a matter of getting it actually carried out and the more projects financed, the better. Here we must be strong in calling for a detailed and defined plan from Europe, so that it is an effective instrument, and a rigorous follow-up of it. It is a plan that has generated many expectations and to which it must respond successfully. The ECB, through the plan for the purchase of financial assets, is helping to increase liquidity in the markets, indirectly favouring the financing of projects. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is considered to be another example of a proposal that has been overcome by events. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. In short, in this initiative there is something we could share, such as the spirit behind point 5 of the non-law proposal, but we do not believe that the important thing is the existence of a plan - which is already, because we believe that the Juncker Plan itself represents it - but that it is carried out in an effective, transparent and productive way, so that it reaches projects that generate growth and are competitive, with added value and with tractor effect towards other sectors, and above all generators of occupation. We believe that there are measures in this initiative presented to us by the Plural Left Group which do not accord with the priorities of the moment, which do not go in the direction of promoting greater economic stability, as is our priority. In particular, we cannot share the first three points of the initiative, as I have said before. Mr President, give me five seconds to give a brief reflection, to which I believe we are obliged, on the role of Europe; a reflection on how the crisis has been managed by the European Union. Some particularly financial and liquidity-related decisions need to be reflected, as some have arrived late and the arrival times have also been able to condition recovery in countries such as Spain. We need more and better Europe, we need a more united and integrated Europe, with the aim of growth, competitiveness, well-being and occupation. Finally, the last OECD Forum called for more investment - I share the words of the Socialist spokesman - for growth...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u91	Mrs. Riera, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u92	I'm done, Mr. President. ...and this is the message we need for Europe; an objective, that investment policies serve growth and well-being, as well as greater European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riera. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Garzón, the PNL is going on the screenplay, and you won't be surprised at anything that's happening. I believe that some intervener has already said that this non-law proposal is a paradigm of the left. There has recently been an electoral process in which paradise has been promised, and since it is impossible to fulfil it now it is necessary to justify itself; an enemy must be sought to justify what was promised, knowing that it could not be fulfilled; it must be justified that it is a third party that prevents this issue. [[Applauds]] In your non-law proposal you come to say that Greece has put the debt debate on the political agenda. It has not been Mr Tsipras, no; Greece has been talking for a long time. I believe that you must know that Greece has already been given more than EUR 30 billion; that Greece is a country which has been taken away from 70% of the debt; that Greece, despite having received the equivalent of fifty-four Marshall plans, more than 243% of GDP, still does not solve its problems. Before Tsipras reached the government, Greece still had an expectation of growth, and within five months the government of Tsipras has only managed to bring about misery, misery and misery. That is really the reality of Greece right now, Mr Garzón. One cannot stand in elections and tell the Greek people that they are willing not to pay the debt, to give electricity to 300,000 households, to give 30,000 homes, to raise pensions, to all that paradise to which I referred; now when the economic reality of the world arrives, when absolutely nothing can be fulfilled, an enemy is sought. That is what lies behind the background of this initiative. I'm going to go in and analyze your GNP, although I'm going to do little, because they've been tearing it apart point by point. The lack of seriousness of the arguments recently would be his initiative. It cannot be said here that there are more than EUR 1 trillion of public aid to banking. In the end you could have added all the budgets of the world and said that they were also aid to the Spanish public bank. Of that billion, two hundred thousand are left with 1.2 aid to the public bank. See if the argument you use is not serious. You are determined that these interest rates will be financed by the European Central Bank, but if they are negative. The European Central Bank was not created for this purpose, it is expressly prohibited by the Treaty. I do not presume ignorance, but rather will twist - to be gentle - in this initiative. It is the discourse that now touches them to compete with other political forces that are handling the same discourse. I understand, what happens to promise paradise has these problems, Mr. Garzón. His initiative is so contradictory that, on the one hand, he is very annoyed by the Stability Pact and, on the other, by the debt. You want to abolish the Stability Pact, I suppose it will be to continue in debt. Explain it, because it's hard to understand. Or do you think you won't pay off the debt, the debt we'd continue to acquire? I am glad that there have been many political forces here today that have put in place the initiative you have presented. Your proposal poses very serious risks to the economy, and you know it. Look at what is happening in Greece, where there is capital flight and more misery, only because of the economic approaches currently being taken by the current government. I'll tell you something else. The Stability Pact can be complicated to comply with, it can be annoying for citizens, but it is much more so - believe me - the situation that the Greeks are experiencing these days, mainly because of those policies to which you are so close and which, of course, are not welcome. I've been disturbed by one thing about your intervention, and I'm going to tell you. Comparing the economic situation of Greece with that of Spain is an absolute insult. [[Applauds]] In this country we are emerging from the crisis and in Greece they are on their way, and without reference, Mr Garzón. That's a big difference. It's over, Mr. President. There are two ways to solve problems. They can be faced, as this Government has done, with difficult measures; yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken tough, difficult measures, but in the end Spain has a future, Spain has a path. We have gone to Europe - it has already been said here - the Juncker Plan, EUR 30 billion of investment. Or things can be dealt with as the left does, especially the one you represent, with much demagogy. When there is a problem, what needs to be done is to re-examine it, put forward new plans, new constitutions. You solve it all on the basis of new rules in the State Official Gazette. The paper can handle everything. You know why? Because populism is normative, it's regulatory. You intend to change reality with the papers, and that has never been possible in all history. Mr. Garzón, being aware...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u95	Mr. Suárez, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u96	... of the difficulties we have been through - yes, Mr President, I finish - I like the model of seriousness much more than that of the demagogy proposed by this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. Mr Garzón, do you accept the amendment proposed by the Socialist Group?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u98	No, no, We prefer it to be voted on its own terms. In any case, we accept the suggestion that it be done by separate points.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u99	All right. That's how it's gonna be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u100	Let's move on to the first motion, which will be the last point we discussed this afternoon. It is a motion by the Socialist Group on urgent measures against child poverty. For your defence, Mrs. Carcedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of investing in childhood is between 7 and 10 % per year. It is a much higher return than investment funds or most investments in the securities market. This is affirmed by James J. Heckman, winner of the 2000 Nobel Prize in Economics. On the contrary, according to Holzer, in a study carried out in the United States in 2007 and ratified in 2010, child poverty amounts to 4.4% of GDP, a cost related to decreased productivity, increased criminal activity, prison activity, worsening health, health expenditure, etc. On the basis of these principles, the European Commission has drawn up recommendations for Member States based on this evidence from economic and child impact researchers, which is summarized in the following slogan: breaking the cycle of disadvantages and investing in children, but, ladies and gentlemen, our Government is following this recommendation in the opposite direction because it is promoting the cycle of disadvantages. The last survey of living conditions confirms this blow in the sails of the cycle of disadvantages that the Government's policies are operating on the situation of child poverty. The motion we tabled following last week's inquiry follows the recommendations of the European Commission, which is summarized in three main axes. Firstly, the increase in family income. Basically, he states that families, and especially families with children, must have sufficient resources to meet the needs of children. Secondly, the need to ensure quality public services for all children. Thirdly, the active participation of children in social, cultural, economic, sports and so on. Well, this is the meaning - I insist - of the motion that we have tabled, which responds to the main measures and cuts that affect increasing the cycle of disadvantages. The situation of family income defines the situation of children. We have said actively and passively that there are no poor children in wealthy families, so the situation of family income defines the situation of children. In this parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed a very high rate of increase in poverty in family incomes, especially in families with lower incomes. The main recourse of the families, ladies and gentlemen, is determined by wages, and wages in this legislature have been cut by 9%. Those who have no wages and receive unemployment protection, we have to face them, and that face is 850,000 people standing down less than they are protected by some kind of help. This, of course, leads to greater vulnerability in families and greater child protection. The end result is that about 800,000 families with children have no protection whatsoever. The survey of living conditions, ladies and gentlemen, tells us that all types of families with children are above the average of 22.2% at risk of poverty, and families without children are below this 22%, to the point that 42% of single parent families with children are below the poverty line. This is the reality and is the fruit and consequences of the policy that we have experienced in these four years of legislature, an increase in inequality and poverty in certain families. It is therefore clear that the end result is child poverty. As far as public services are concerned, they are the guarantee of equity by universal law in the welfare State. I would like to stress once again that the fateful decrees of 2012 have broken this principle of universal law, primarily in education. Education is the backbone of the welfare state, it is the guarantee of social advancement, it is the guarantee of the future for children. Well, from the education of children - as I have repeatedly explained in this House - to university fees, through the cutting of scholarships in general, both in quantity and in amount - 600 euros less per scholarship - as well as the scholarships of books - 600,000 less children who have aid for books -, it draws a picture where this break in the cycle of real disadvantages is not a break, but a fortress. The consequences of this strengthening of the disadvantage cycle will be expressed in the next survey of living conditions in figures, which, if this year's ones are scandalous, will reflect an immensely worse situation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u102	Mrs. Carcedo, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u103	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. We also accept, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Royal Decree No. 16/2002, which eliminates the universality of health care for all citizens living in Spain, regardless of the situation of the parents of the children affected by this measure, and should therefore be eliminated. Social services, also repeatedly presented in this House, are one of the basic elements to care for children in situations of need; to channel and meet the needs of families, families with children, and this society cannot look elsewhere; to repeal the articles of the evil so-called Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration that put at risk, put the survival of these close social services in a situation of uncertainty. That is basically the content of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u104	Mrs. Carcedo, you have to finish now. You can't insist.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u105	I'm done, Mr. President. We are very persevering; all these measures have been put on the table to be submitted to the debate of your ladies and gentlemen and have been repeatedly rejected, but we are once again exposing them. The need to reverse this situation is so obvious that we will continue to insist on it. It is not necessary, because it is not written anywhere, that the exit from the crisis must be at the expense of our childhood and at the expense of the future of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. Two amendments have been tabled to this motion. Firstly, Mrs García Álvarez has the floor for her defence on the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words from this atril are devoted to the Greek people, whom, on behalf of my group, we wish to see their future built without the pressure of the troika, now be called as it is called. After the debate we had, I suppose appearing in an employment office and stating that when he ruled the queue of unemployment would disappear was not to promise paradise; it was the paradigm of the right: poverty. The paradigm of the left is the development and well-being of peoples. Once again, the consequences of neoliberal policies and cuts imposed by Brussels occupy a space for debate in this House. Again, we come up to this rostrum to defend the rights of the working class, rights that are being stolen from them with the excuse of the crisis. Again we are forced to remember what we all know but we do not dare to verbalize clearly and forcefully, and it is that the crisis - one more - is capitalism and the pagans - once again - we are the most vulnerable class in society: the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, poverty has settled in our country and, unfortunately, has come to stay. Many families have no income, who suffer from parental pensions or contributions, usually food, from non-governmental organizations. There is an increase in the number of people who work for wages of poverty and, today, there are a great many companies that have frozen wages for their workers practically for the years left of working life. We are talking about loss of purchasing power, loss of rights and, consequently, increasing inequalities. Mrs Carcedo pointed out last plenary four ministries - five with which she is the subject of this motion - as the transversal leaders of the policies that have led us to the situation of poverty that we are suffering today. Well, Mrs. Carcedo, allow me to correct you. When, from the governments, they are the ones, they move to the citizens who cannot do anything other than submit to the dictates of the financial powers, who must internalize that in a globalized world the limitations of the governments are many and consequently the loss of citizens' rights also, this is not the responsibility of three, four or five ministries; it is the responsibility of the Government as a whole and, of course, the implementation of policies that strengthen an economic and social model that rewards the richest and increases inequalities. It is, once again, and I reiterate it, capitalism; pure and plain capitalism. It is grotesque, almost insulting, to say, as Minister Alonso said, that the economic situation is being renewed. Where and for whom is he returning? Unless you consider that bringing pupils back along the path of devalued vocational training - so-called basic vocational training - that is to say, bringing cheap labour to the market is ideal for the economic future of this country. I do not know whether the Minister of Health and Social Services has realized that our young people do not leave our borders looking for adventures, but for the future. I also do not know if you know that there are many young people who are ready to go to the services sector in search of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, there is structural poverty, labour poverty, energy poverty. The social gap is growing deeper, wealth is concentrated in few people and social exclusion is increasing. More and more this figure that we have called poor with contract, people who, even having a job, suffer such precarious conditions and low wages that they cannot develop a life project with a minimum of dignity. We can adorn the speeches, play floral games from this atrium, go to the 'and you more', whatever we want, but that will not end the reality of our country, it will not end the situation of those millions of children who suffer the consequences of their families' poverty. With regard to the motion, and given the situation, in my group we believe that we are presenting a motion of minimums, which we have already announced that we are going to vote in favour despite this, although we have tabled an amendment aimed not at amending Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 of 20 April, but at repealing it, as we have often requested from this court. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude with this, Mr President - the paradigm of the left - I said at the outset - is the development of peoples and human well-being; the paradigm of the right at this time and with the policies it is carrying, is the increase of poverty, inequality and much misery in many countries, and especially in countries outside our borders. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. In order to present the other amendment, which is being tabled by the Catalan Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carcedo, we have had the opportunity to discuss on several occasions the same issue that you have raised with us. The last time that Convergence and Union raised this debate was at the monitoring session to the Government, with a question to Minister Alonso, who, unfortunately, did not answer us adequately on the substance of the matter. In addition, we, like you, have raised an inquiry on this same issue and we have brought to the House a proposal for a law to go on the road towards the universalization of social security child benefit as an instrument to combat child poverty. Therefore, in relation to the cause that you have defended today from the rostrum we express our full coincidence. With regard to her intervention and also with that of the United Left spokesman, I would like to stress that the problem of child poverty has clearly worsened during these years of crisis, the result of the destruction of employment and the fiscal adjustment decisions that the Government has taken, but before the crisis, before 2008 Spain did not resist the comparison with the rest of the European countries in this area. At the height of our economy - around 2004, 2005 and 2006 - our rate of child poverty was among the highest in the European Union; they were worse than us exclusively Romania and Bulgaria. And that, together with the problems of the crisis, the destruction of employment and fiscal adjustment, points to a welfare state that during these thirty years we have not been able to adequately guide in relation to families and children. Quite simply, this weakness of our welfare State motivated the issue that the Convergence i Union initiative intended to resolve by means of a universal child benefit with a sufficient amount, which would allow - through a transfer of economic resources to families - to correct this inequality. It would be good if in the debate on child poverty, beyond the legitimate criticisms that we must make of the Government's policies in this area, we understood that if this is a structural problem - that is to say, that it is pre-crisis but that it has exacerbated - in the reform of the welfare state we need to prioritize investments in children. Mrs Carcedo said in the introduction to her speech that this issue is relevant in the medium and long term because poor children can end up being adults with fewer opportunities than the rest of the citizens, that is, they will not be able to access quality jobs because they have less training. He said that the logic of family support policies is a logic of social investment in relation to the life cycle. We fully agree with that view which further justifies this structural reform of our social protection system. Furthermore, I would like to insist on an idea - more selfish, if I may say so - that it is absurd for a society to resign itself to the fact that so many children do not have opportunities, in the sense that these children will contribute less to society as a whole in terms of talent and contribution as active citizens. We would be very stupid if we didn't bother to tackle the problem of child poverty in depth. We therefore fully agree with some of the measures set out in its text. My group has tabled an amendment because Mrs Carcedo - who is not hiding from it, but even jokingly - who is a representative of the Socialist Group with a strong Jacobin soul, who is very loose when she writes this motion insists on a common framework to fully guarantee rights, and my group, which agrees with you on the priority of the issue, on the structural nature of the problem and on the importance of the policies that depend on the State, is very convinced that what can guarantee the eradication of child poverty is not so much a common framework as that the State assumes its responsibilities and that we have a universal and sufficient child benefit, or an economic policy aimed at full employment, or we are able to guarantee quality jobs that will enable people to live from their employment and not from subsidies. In this respect, we are proposing an amendment - although I do not accept it at last, we will also vote in favour of its motion - with which we want to reaffirm that state egalitarianism is not what will guarantee us the fight against child poverty, but that it will be public policies and the effort that the State must make in this area through social security. I'm sure that's where we have an important tour where we can match. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. I request silence so that speakers can be heard. Mrs Pérez has the floor in the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u111	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the Socialist Group's inquiry, Minister Alonso criticized the spokesman for the PSOE for using data from 2014 and 2013 for his argumentation, and has assured us that these data have certainly been corrected since then. Nor could we be sure, but what we can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Government's obsession with the deficit target that forced the autonomous communities and the municipalities to make very harsh adjustments in matters directly related to child poverty - education, health, social services - has not ceased to be the least. From the zero minute of the beginning of the current legislature, the People's Party has put over all brutal budgetary adjustments. Of course, the drama of child poverty has not been born with this Government, but this Government has carried out the most drastic health, educational, labour and social reforms that are remembered in decades and has turned what was already a worrying problem before 2011 into a real social emergency that every year has more evidence in the cuts that translate into the General Budgets of the State. The policies of the People's Party have served to ensure that the rate of child population at risk of poverty and social exclusion has remained above 30 per cent over the past three years and has not fallen from the 2.5 million children at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The various plans of the Government have been late and have been economically more than insufficient. Recently, it was the European Commission that published the Report on Spain 2015, where it maintains that the social protection system is totally inadequate and that Spain is one of the countries of the European Union with the greatest inequalities and where the poverty gap has increased steadily since 2007. The European Commission report concludes that little progress has been made to ensure an integrated approach between social protection and employment strategies, and very little in the situation of low-income households with children. With regard to the Government's latest tax reform, which Mr Montoro is so boasting about, the Commission's report itself states that these measures do not constitute a comprehensive framework for addressing the high and persistent levels of child poverty. End of date. Labour reforms, those of this Government and those of the former, have clearly brought precarious employment, when not enslaving, that has not allowed the economic recovery of the lower classes or the middle classes, however much the Government insists that the economic recovery is being consolidated. The segregating effects of the Wert Law will begin to be seen socially in a very short time, but as long as we can already talk about what the terrible scholarship policy carried out by the Ministry of Education has meant and the drastic reduction in funding for complementary services. All this does not contribute in any way to equity and is increasing the difference between those who have more and those who have less and less, because there are no policies that contribute to their economic and social improvement. The health reforms launched by the Government have resulted in a multi-million-dollar reduction in public resources for a right that was until recently universal. This has had a negative impact on the most vulnerable families and children belonging to these families. By setting an example that is not much less anecdotal, the reduction of professionals that has been carried out in public health has left many people in the Spanish State without continued pediatric care, has forced many families to have to resort to health services many kilometers from their usual home and often to private health, which, as you know, is not available to everyone. With regard to energy poverty, dozens of initiatives have been brought and debated in this House to prevent it, and the Government has always said no; a no that has led millions of households to be unable to warm up in the winter and even to even more severe restrictions. By the way, all this was happening and is happening as the benefits of the electrics reach absolutely scandalous odds. We could also talk about the devastating effects of government policies on pensions or social services. We could talk for hours about this, but ultimately we would always end up at the same point, with the consequences that have arisen from cutback policies that have caused historical and insurmountable unemployment figures, with excessive wage cuts that have made that today not even having a job means being able to live in dignity. I'm done, President. Having more than 2.5 million socially excluded children is unqualified and should become a priority for the Government, it should become the priority of any Government. To close our eyes to this situation is irresponsible, in addition to hypocrisy more than many of those governing the social policy of this Government. For this reason, we believe that any initiative in this regard should be valued. That is why the Galego Nationalist Block will support the Socialist Party's proposal. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[Rumors]] Please, there are Members who want to attend to the speakers. Let them do it and interrupt so much conversation. I now give the floor to Mrs Sánchez Robles, for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is inevitable to address this motion made by the Socialist Group to mention the countless times that we have discussed this issue in this House, just as it is inevitable to perceive a sad feeling of frustration when we see that the many discussions have not made, but rather to highlight the inability of this Parliament to deal honestly and collaboratively with the solution of this problem, the most serious problem we have from the point of view of its human dimension. At this stage of the legislature, it has been shown that speaking is just talking, that knowing the political and dialectic positions maintained by both the Government and the various parliamentary groups there is an imperative need for intervention in the face of a cruel reality that is pressing us, because there are thousands of people who are affected by it, despite the triumphalism of a government that seeks to turn macroeconomic data into a decisive success, as if the crisis and its effects had disappeared by the art of birlibirloque. In this context, the spirit that moves this group is to come to respond to the demands and aspirations of citizens from the principles that have always inspired our political action: the defence of human rights, the defence of the dignity of people, whatever their condition, the improvement of their well-being and quality of life and the promotion of solidarity and social justice. The essential instruments for achieving this aim are, firstly, access to sufficient and stable economic income normally derived from work, pensions and, in some cases, public income guarantee aid, depending on personal circumstances. Employment in any of its forms is more than just a source of income. Employment is a key element in the processes of integration, socialization and participation of a person in the community. In this sense, the existence of a strong and dynamic business and economic fabric is essential for the maintenance of quality employment. The second determinant of this objective is access to housing. For years, programmes have been developed from the various institutions to facilitate access to this property. Today, the urgency is not precisely those who cannot access the housing market, but those who are being forced to leave their homes because they cannot afford to pay for them as a result of this crisis. We are witnessing real dramas from entire families who stay on the street and see truncated aspirations and goals for the future, having in many cases to start from scratch. The third unquestionable element is education, because the personal, social and professional development of citizenship depends to a large extent on its educational level. Education is a great engine for the development and change of society. And the fourth element is health as a fundamental pillar of people's quality of life and well-being. Now more than ever, the principles of universality, solidarity, equity, quality of services and citizen participation must be deepened. From this vision, we share with the proposing group the urgency to take as many measures as necessary to curb the worrying increase in the number of citizens on the poverty line, as we have always said. They will have noticed that throughout my speech I have not spoken at any time of child poverty. And I have not done so because this group considers that there is no child poverty, but poor children from poor families, as we have already pointed out on other occasions. It is precisely from that perspective that the development of inclusive solutions must be addressed. Nor is that what we see in the Socialist Group's motion, which is more like a letter to the Magi extracted from their electoral programme than a proposal for efficient solutions to put a stop to the drama experienced by thousands of families. We are not prepared to participate in this fight of pimpampum unleashed in the heat of the minute of this legislature between a failed People's Government, which has only implemented cutbacks and which has forgotten to address strategies of stimulus of the economy, except for some - let us not forget that the number of rich has grown in Spain by 40% since the beginning of the crisis - a Government that has undermined the basic pillars of the welfare state and a Socialist Party that on the eve of an electoral process exhausts the minutes of legislature to do in my political opinion, pulling great electoral proposals, loaded with populism and in many cases impossible to fulfill for purely economic reasons. For this reason, all I have to say is that they can count on us to work loyally and honestly, shoulder-to-shoulder, and only then will we all be able to get out of the hole and put a stop to poverty and misery. The take and take remains when we are talking about a problem as serious as this. In any case, Mrs Carcedo, I will tell you that we will work shoulder to shoulder and that the rights are not in bull's skin exclusively, they are in Europe, they are in the Human Rights Charter. And one thing is where the rights are and another is who is responsible for applying them. The institutions must respect those rights and try to encourage, from their competences, policies in a coordinated and harmonised way to overcome the serious problem that we have. I deeply regret that I continue to think from the centralist mentality and to prevent - perhaps by preventing -, with a centralizing will, putting obstacles to that collaborative and cooperative work, which would really bear fruit, also from those policies of closeness that you have defended in your intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez Robles. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u115	Thank you, President. Indeed, the Socialist Group, through the spokesman, Mrs Carcedo, has once again brought to debate an issue which is extremely important from the point of view of the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy. It is true that we do not solve an outstanding issue of our democracy: child poverty, the need for help, much more important benefits than have been achieved throughout our democratic history for families and children. It is not resolved through a debate on a motion, but it is not the only debate or instrument with which we have tried to raise awareness of the People's Parliamentary Group throughout this parliamentary term. The spokesman for Convergence i Unió said earlier, and he is quite right, that this is a structural problem, that at a time when our country's economic situation was buoyant and we were making statements about being in the Champion League and being better than other European countries we were giving the note - the negative note - precisely with this issue. There were more poor children, more careless families, more households living below the poverty line - and particularly affecting children - than in the rest of Europe. There were very few countries - I think you mentioned a couple of them - below the situation in Spain. We have a structural problem here, because there have been no structural policies to deal with this problem. It is, I insist, an outstanding subject of our democracy that gets worse when the situation is economically critical, but has always been like a scourge of democracy. To deal with this problem requires, of course, political will and appropriate instruments; of course, the debate is through a motion; of course, the debate, if it is to be effective and effective, must be reflected in the general budgets of the State, but the problem exists, the problem is not being solved. It is good that we continue to debate the issue so that we may be able to raise the awareness of the People's Group, although we do not solve the problem; that, as I insist, as in other matters they have said no first and then they have ended up including certain items in the budgets, also in this issue they will end up including the necessary items in the budgets. Indeed, we are at risk of being a witness debate and, therefore, of being frustrating, but I believe that in what there is a substantial agreement in all these debates is that this is a poorly or poorly attended and frustrated issue in our country and we must finally be able to agree. The Socialist Group raises many issues on its initiative. In some we can agree more on their diagnosis and prescription, but our group, Union Progress and Democracy, is essentially in agreement on the diagnosis of all of them: improving family income, raising the minimum wage. Last week we had an initiative - also from your group - and we tabled an amendment, which was not accepted, so that the interprofessional minimum wage for 2015 would increase by 5% and every year there would be a 3% guarantee. It was not accepted, but the debate was raised, in our view, in the right terms. The question is whether unemployment protection should be extended. We have not only discussed it, but we have also proposed in this House the child allowance - also the person responsible for Convergence i Unió proposed it - because it is in our view an absolutely essential benefit. We have discussed numerous initiatives throughout this parliamentary term in this respect and have always been defeated, in the sense of being rejected, by the majority group. Ensuring the rights of children throughout the territory is absolutely elementary, basic. It is a matter of individual rights, rights are not out there, as the spokesman for the Basque Group said, they are neither in bull's skin nor in Europe. The rights are of each individual, they are fundamental rights of each citizen, also of children, even if they do not vote. We need to talk about those rights and we need to guarantee those rights. In our view, the current jurisdictional distribution in our country - we have said it many times - does not solve this problem, on the contrary, increases it. There is more inequality precisely because of this competitive distribution. It is not a debate in ideological terms, it is enough to see what has happened. During all these years of economic crisis, what has been done is to deepen poverty and inequality among the poorest, depending on the part of Spain in which it lived. In our view, the person who proclaims the right, which is the Courts, must have the instruments to make it effective on an equal footing, also in this very sensitive matter. This is therefore an issue that we must review, but not from an ideological perspective, but to ensure equality, something on which, at least in theory, the whole House agrees. It is not a question of depriving one or the other of competences, it is a question of organizing ourselves in such a way that equality is guaranteed for each and every citizen, which is guaranteed. The lady spokesman makes gestures to me, I don't know if she wants to say that, but I'm going to say it just in case.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u116	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u117	I'm done. When the competence is of each of the Autonomous Communities, the competence is political and the resources that the Autonomous Communities have are, as all Members of Parliament know, non-finalists and each Autonomous Community devotes them to what it sees fit. When a right is proclaimed here, we must have instruments to make it effective on an equal footing for all Spaniards, minors or adults, to live in the part of our country that lives. That is why it is also important for me to reflect on the distribution of competence in order to guarantee the equality of all citizens and to ensure that those rights which are proclaimed are effective in conditions of quality and equality for all citizens. All this being said and because I have spent time - thank you, President - I thank the Socialist Group for giving us the opportunity to have this debate again, and we announce our vote in favour of your motion. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Mrs Montesinos has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mariano Rajoy has placed the fight against poverty and social exclusion at the centre of the social agenda, from the very moment when the Socialist Left betrayed the Spaniards and sent them to the opposition for their social inaction, for their false promises of full employment - 3.5 million unemployed - for their disastrous economic policy - spent 90 billion euros more than they entered - for their bad practices and for their concealment of the debt to both the Spaniards and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the misery of the socialist government has unfortunately resulted in an increase in poverty, five times greater than in the rest of the European Union, between 2008 and 2011. [[Rumors]] Record figure in inequality, poverty and exclusion. The socialist government broke the welfare state, that was the inheritance that left us the false progress of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislature is the most social one and, proof of that, it is, first of all, that pensions have been thawed because you Socialists impoverished our elders, who were the breadwinner of their families, while prices were being fired. From the very beginning we drew up the Action Plan for Social Inclusion, with EUR 136.5 billion, when the Government of Zapatero had allowed the previous plan to lapse. For the first time the fight against child poverty is incorporated, a cross-cutting goal in the whole plan; you did not. That's investing in childhood. In addition to the €17 million in 2014, €32 million was allocated to the Poverty Fund in the 2015 General Budgets. On the contrary, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, when it had government responsibilities, allocated zero euros to this situation. The II Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents, with more than €5 billion and specific measures, has been launched. The Family Support Plan has only been provided for the first year with €5.4 billion in measures for the most vulnerable and includes supplements to the amount of the contributory pension for women who have had two or more children. Another example is tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen, Mariano Rajoy's Government has been fully involved in the main social policy, which is job creation. More than 185,000 households no longer have all their members unemployed. One million jobs will have been created by the end of this parliamentary term. The economy is growing at 2.7% and consumption is growing in all households. Ms. Carcedo, the government has raised the interprofessional minimum wage in accordance with Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 of 26 December. With regard to the increase in the child allowance, it was his Government that suspended it and reduced the child allowance for children under three years from 500 to 291 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, what a fragile memory! On 29 July President Rajoy agreed with the social partners an agreement to strengthen economic growth and employment which resulted in the approval of aid of 426 euros for the long-term unemployed who no longer received any benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about the common framework for guaranteeing children's rights. What better way to guarantee them than to vote in favour of the Child Protection Act? [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] As for health, Mrs Carcedo, your debt of EUR 16 billion had to be paid. We've secured the basic common portfolio. We have restored the right to health care to the long-term unemployed, to whom you had withdrawn it. We have guaranteed the right to health care to those who practise liberal professions, to whom you denied it. And not only that, but also more than 2 million Spaniards right now between the unemployed and pensioners do not have to pay for their medicines. We have maintained and guaranteed the principle of universality. We have adopted the strategy for health promotion and prevention in the National Health System, which has a specific line for children. With regard to education, the Government's real commitment has been to increase budget programmes for the second consecutive year. In early childhood education Spain is among the highest countries of schooling in the world. Despite the falsehoods you pour here, this is the government that has allocated the most resources to scholarships, EUR 1,413 million. Are you talking about energy measures? Well, it is this government that has created the social bonus for vulnerable consumers. While you increased electricity tariffs by 63% and left a deficit of more than 30 billion, this government has been involved with the most disadvantaged. Ladies and gentlemen, this government does invest and believe in childhood. This government is far ahead of the opposition - as it could not otherwise be - and that is why we are not going to support an initiative whose main axes are already being fulfilled by the Rajoy government. This is a social government and committed to the most vulnerable, and in that regard we will continue to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Mrs Carcedo, do you accept either of the two amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u121	Yes, Mr. President. We accept the amendment of the Plural Left Parliamentary Group and, unfortunately, we cannot accept the amendment of the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Carcedo. That will be voted on in a few minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Mr. Ernesto Aguiar, I ask Mrs. Ofelia Reyes Miranda if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u124	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u125	In place of Doña Rosa Aguilar, I ask Don Antonio Luis Amaro López if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u126	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u127	In place of dona María Virtudes Monteserín, I ask dona Rosa María Cañizares if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u128	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u129	In place of Patricia Hernández, I ask Ana Vanessa Rodríguez Concepción if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u130	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u131	In place of Don Vicente Guillén, I ask Maria Yolanda Casaus Rodríguez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u132	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u133	Doña Ofelia Reyes Miranda, don Antonio Luis Amaro López, doña Rosa María Cañizares, doña Ana Vanessa Rodríguez Concepción and doña María Yolanda Casaus have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u134	We will vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Group amending the General Tax Law on the advertising of data in extraordinary tax regularization processes. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 131 against, 172 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u135	It shall not be taken into account. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, OF ENERGY SELF-CONSUMPTION. [[File number 122/00152]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u136	It takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Group of the Plural Left for self-consumption of energy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 142 against, 171 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u137	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u138	No bill proposed by the People's Group on Spanish participation in the UN Security Council for the period 2015-2016. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 277 against, 13 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u139	It's approved. - OF THE IU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON MEASURES TO PROMOTE A GREAT AGREEMENT ON THE EUROPEAN PUBLIC DUTY. [[File number 162/001163]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u140	Non-law proposal by the Plural Left Group on measures to promote a major agreement on European public debt. We are going to vote on your terms, but we are going to do it point by point. That's five points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 21 against, 294 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u141	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 27 against, 288.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u142	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 19 against, 293 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u143	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 19 against, 295 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u144	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 37 against, 277 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u145	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u146	Vote on the Socialist Group's motion on urgent measures against child poverty. The amendment of the Plural Left Group was adopted. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 140 against, 169 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-23-CD150623.u147	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine o'clock at night.
