ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u1	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Gaspar Llamazares Trigo, I ask Dona Ana María Castaño Rey if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u3	Dona Ana María Castaño Rey has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed in the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part of motions, so that the motion of the Joint Group, Mr Quevedo, which is on the agenda as item 5, will be debated last of the motions. This Presidency also proposes to the plenary of the House an amendment to the question of interpellations, in order to change the order of the debate in paragraphs 26 and 27. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] What has been agreed by the House means that today we will see the two proposals for legislation, the two non-legislative proposals and the motion of the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u5	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which regulates the rights of the person before the final process of his life. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez Olmos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise here, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to defend a proposal for a law which seeks, if your ladies and gentlemen consider it appropriate, to guarantee the rights of patients who are in the terminal phase for a disease that no longer has any backsliding; that they may have guaranteed the right to dignity in this final process of life and have it guaranteed throughout the Spanish territory. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of developing a palliative care strategy, but a question of rights, of advancing citizens' rights in something which today the vast majority of Spanish society agrees with and the whole of the health professions too. There are usually no occasions in which when we have the responsibility to defend political positions they also coincide with professional convictions. They will not hear me say many times that I go up to this rostrum also as a doctor, but on this occasion I also go up as a doctor. You know why? Because when it was known that today in plenary we were going to discuss this point in order to defend this proposal of law there were people who came in contact with me. I would like to point out to you that last week the family of Antonio J.F., sixty-four years old, resident in Madrid, contacted me to say: Thank you for bringing this initiative to the plenary, because our family member asked to be respected the will to die without pain and we did not find an answer because the doctor who attended did not consider it appropriate, and we were not able to demand that right. Ladies and gentlemen, one feels the responsibility - and I am of course sure that any of us who come to this rostrum too - to try to improve the reality of citizens with our political positions, but in this case it seems important to me to point out that we are trying to represent the majority will of citizens, the majority will of the health professions. I will ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, in particular, to listen to and accept this parliamentary initiative. Let them not excuse the fact that palliative care strategies are being developed because what is being developed is an approach of enormous inequality. Let them not excuse the progress, the new rights which systematically in this democracy have always had to the right against and which, finally, they have had to accept because reality has been imposed. Let us not further delay the launch of an initiative that aims to give dignity to people in the terminal phase, even as our proposal for a law raises, even if the treatment of pain shortens life. It is the approach accepted by the vast majority of health professions, with explicit declarations signed. Even, ladies and gentlemen, when the development of a pioneering regulation in this area was proposed in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, the negotiation between the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group of the Andalusian House, through the intermediation of the Catholic Church, achieved a consensus which we here call for. It is already good that the Spanish right continues to influence the dome of the Catholic Church for decisions that are of exclusive competence of citizens, of their genuine freedom of choice, of their conscience. This bill does not bring to this House the treatment of euthanasia. That will require another debate which, by the way, I am convinced that, sooner than later, Spanish society will force us to address it. Here we bring a debate exclusively tied to what in the field of scientific knowledge, of the positions of professional ethics and of the claims of the whole citizenry can allow us that when, unfortunately, one has to face a situation where there is no longer a remedy for the disease, one can die with dignity. In my view, it would be important for the People's Party to learn from the message sent to it by society when, in the last elections, it has punished them not only with a negative election result, but also that it has been hard for them to find the support of other political forces to continue to rule in institutions, mainly because they have not even allowed people to live with dignity with their economic policies. Please let people die with dignity because, if not, they will not understand the message, as has happened on many occasions in the history of democracy with the great progress that has been made in citizens' rights. This deserves an important reflection, because it is an approach that aims to make it possible for citizens to find answers to their demands and to what has to do with social ethics, with ethics that is not conditioned by religious approaches of any of the confessions that, on the other hand, deserve all respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is bringing to the House, long enough to be able to develop this rule despite the fact that we are at the final stage of the legislature, an initiative that we would like to have discussed in this Parliament. It is not an initiative that seeks to produce a political outcome or that seeks to be oriented towards an electoral approach. If I have to tell you that it is more than likely that if you, gentlemen of the People's Party, do not accept that this is discussed and can be agreed in this House, the new regional parliaments, where the political majorities have changed, will develop autonomous legislative initiatives to recognize this right to the citizens of their territories, but what is going to be a mistake in the Government's approach during this legislature, which is inequality in the welfare rights throughout the Spanish territory. There has been no legislature in which inequalities in access to health rights have increased as much as is currently taking place in our country following the decisions that have been taken by Mr Rajoy's Government. Take this initiative with the best of will on our part, to reach consensus, to make an approach, if you like, similar to what we did in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, where we gave an example of dialogue and consensus to make it possible for situations such as those I have commented to you not to be repeated. Today, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the health services of this country there are people who are suffering from these circumstances, there are families who are seeing how the right to death worthy of those who are in a terminal phase and from the point of view of medical science is no longer respected. Therefore, since there are medicines and care approaches that allow you to die without pain, it is not understood how, from the legal point of view, there is no rule that protects citizens against the considerations of some professionals who have a perfectly respectable vision but who end up imposing it on the will of patients and their families. The proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Group is very simple but very forceful in terms of rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to ensure the protection of the dignity of people in the final process of their lives and to guarantee the full right to their free will in the making of health decisions affecting them. It is difficult to understand why one cannot agree with this, it is difficult to understand why one does not agree with the legal guarantee of the right to the protection of the dignity of persons in the final process of life, the right to complete and concrete care information, the right to individuals to make their own decisions at that time, including to reject the intervention that doctors may propose from the point of view of care, and the revocation of the informed consent previously given by patients. It is difficult to understand that they do not agree with the right to give prior instructions as an approach to red lines of action by professionals. It is difficult to understand that they do not agree with the right - legally speaking - to the treatment of pain, to receive comprehensive quality palliative care, although the treatment of pain implies a shortening of life. Note that there are already voices, even within the Catholic Church, demanding this treatment of dignity from people at that time. The speeches that all parliamentary groups are going to make in this area will be reflected in the 'Diary of Sessions' of this House. I can assure you that sooner or later you will remember that this is finally going to be an approach incorporated into Spanish law, whether you like it or not, because in the end the social majority and the approach of medical science are imposed. I ask you to consider this because the sooner it is in force, the sooner we will be giving a treatment of dignity to so many patients who today have no guarantee of it. This bill also represents an important step forward from the point of view of care for those individuals and their families who are at this time in this difficult trance of the end of life, which is the right to personal and family privacy. It is true that today there are many Spanish hospitals that try, with the strategy and with the approach supported by many professionals, to make it possible for these moments to live in privacy. But not all hospitals can do so, not all hospitals have the care and infrastructure resources that allow these patients and their families to live the last moments in privacy. Here there are ladies who, like me, are doctors and who, like me, will have received calls from family members who have asked us to please talk to some hospital manager so that a person who is already in the final phase can have an individual room. This has been experienced by many of the comrades in these and those ranks; this is the reality of what is happening. What this law proposes is that this has to be a right and as we understand that it requires an investment in infrastructure, we propose a period of five years for the autonomous communities to be able to make the necessary adaptations in order to ensure this situation, which is a social demand. Ladies and gentlemen, little more can be said. It can be said louder, but no clearer. Little more can be argued about the need for Spain to join the club of the countries where these rights are already respected, where these rights are already incorporated, about the need for Spain and its Government, even though it is now in the hands of the People's Party, to fulfil the constitutional mandate to ensure equal rights for all people. If anyone who goes to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group is going to tell us about the great progress that has been made in this legislature in implementing the palliative care strategy, please save that argument. Make the argument you want, but I will tell you to go to the Spanish hospitals and talk to the professionals, the doctors, the patients and the managers and you will see how that is not a reality that forces the whole territory and all the institutions and, therefore, does not guarantee quality palliative care on equal terms. If there is something that, in my opinion, makes sense to the Spanish Government in terms of its competences in the field of health, and it is not easy to exercise - we have had experience in this respect and we have not always achieved it - it is to ensure the equality of all. There is no better way to ensure equality for all, and sometimes not even so, than to make a law that obliges all or allows citizens to demand that right so that it does not apply by a particular criterion of professionals who have a particular ideology that modifies their responsibility as professionals. Fortunately, professional organizations are demanding this from us, they are supporting it, and I sincerely believe that it is time, before this parliamentary term runs out, to give satisfaction to all Spanish citizens and make it possible for the right to dignified death to be in Spanish law. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Olmos. The groups will intervene to establish positions. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I anticipate the affirmative vote of Compromís because it cannot be otherwise. The people we've had family in those circumstances know how important it is to regulate this. The aim of medicine is not only to combat death but also to combat premature death and untimely death, and when this is not possible, to avoid pain and suffering to allow a calm death. These are the words of Juan Gómez Rubí, a medical specialist in intensive medicine; sensible words both from the point of view of a medical specialist and from the human point of view. Gómez Rubí was a person used to living together every day on that thin line that separates life from death, a person used to living together with people who are in trance of crossing that border. Today there are new realities, new dilemmas to which we have to respond from Parliament. They're not just medical dilemmas; they're legal, they're ethical. People have the right to decide what treatments we are willing to follow and when we want them to stop. It is part of our freedom and our personal autonomy. A competent patient has the right to accept or reject medical treatment or to delegate his or her decision to someone acting in his or her own name when he or she cannot do so. Society and professionals must intervene in this inevitable process, in the process of death and in the decisions that must be taken from the medical point of view. Today it makes no sense for a person to suffer physical pain at the end of his life when there are remedies that can be put at the service of the welfare of the terminally ill and his family, to provide him with a better quality of life in these difficult times and, above all, to provide him with a dignity that pain and suffering can take away from him. It is urgent, therefore, to regulate these realities, because what we see now is that there are different answers according to the medical staff who care for the patient, and it is urgent not only to safeguard the right of the person before the final process of life to have palliative care that prevents and relieves pain, even if this means a shortening of life, but also to safeguard the professionals who want to respect the will of the patient, who, as Dr. Gómez Rubí said, strive every day to avoid pain and suffering, to allow a calm and dignified death. I hope that this initiative will be adopted today and that, as the rapporteur has said, it will also be addressed in the next parliamentary term with courage the right to decide when our life will end. I hope today that all Members and Members of this House will have three simple, simple words, above dogmas: freedom, respect and, above all, humanity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Group too, Mrs Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Group proposes to us once again to discuss people's right to the final process of life and we have already announced from the Galego Nationalist Block that we are going to vote in favour because, although this issue has been dealt with on different occasions in recent years, it has not yet been properly legislated, so that when a person wants to exercise his right to decide on his life at the time when he is facing, for example, a terminal illness process he does not have to face the great legal difficulties with which he is currently facing, which only add anguish and pain to the life of a person who is no longer in a position to endure it. We do not say this because we think about it, because yes, not only because we know it by relatives or people in the environment who have suffered these situations, but because many times in the media have transcended circumstances that have seemed dramatic to us all, some have achieved their goal and others know that it has not been so. Just as we know that difficulties, even from a legal point of view - they can end up in a process, even if they can finally come out even absolved - they affect the optionals, as was the experience that took place in the Community of Madrid. We therefore support this text, because what is intended by this bill is precisely to ensure not only that this right can be exercised, but that the best conditions are given so that people, in the last days of their life, as we have been demanding for many years, can exercise a dignified death. That's what we all say when we see it from afar, but when we see it close, it seems we don't want to face reality. That is why, again, we are going to vote in favour of this text. But we do not want to finish our speech, the little time we have, without mentioning something that seems very important to us - the spokesman of the Socialist Group has also mentioned it - and it is that we must legislate in the direction in which the proposal that we are debating today goes, but it is also necessary to move in the direction of guaranteeing the right to the people who want to decide on their life or on their death, which is dignified death, for being, as has happened in many cases of people who have asked for it, in serious situations of severe disability, etc.; as Ramón Sampedro said at the time, who has been an example in the vindication of this right, when a person lives a life that is nothing more than a death in life or a dead life. That is why we take this opportunity to reiterate our position on the need to legislate on this issue, so that these people can exercise that right to dignified death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. I now give the floor, also for the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, I recognize that when I read the title of your bill to regulate the rights of the person before the final process of life, for a moment, it was only for a moment, I had the slight hope that the supposed majority progressive group of this House, that is, you of the Socialist Group, intended to regulate euthanasia. I was wrong, because when I continued to read the explanatory statement I realized that they don't even dare to ask it and that what they intend to do is to copy their friends from the other bench, that of the People's Party, once again invading a competition that is already in the hands of the autonomous communities. In fact, they ensure that euthanasia is completely alien to the aspects regulated in this rule, and they do not envisage a possible alteration of the criminalization of this act as a form of aid or inducement to suicide, as set out in the Penal Code. I probably find nothing if I say that the desire of all people is to be happy; probably, it is also, consciously or unconsciously, that of her whose life has become a daily hell. The desire for death is but the cruel and painful finding that one cannot be happy with the life that one has, that one cannot live in dignity. Fortunately, there are those in similar situations who wish to continue living and I applaud him, but this will is unique and exclusively a personal will, it is the result of a free and personal decision. The existence of such persons should serve as a stimulus to others who are in their same situation in order to encourage them in their desire to live, but it can never serve as an excuse to deny the suffering others suffer and their right to end their lives. Stop dizziness and take the bull by the horns, stop regulating what is already regulated, let us talk not about the will of someone to take someone's life, but about the will of oneself not to want to continue living when the circumstances of life are so sad that it is personally determined that it is not life, as well as about the necessary complicity that another person requires to carry out in this case his will. That is why - I am finishing, Mr President - the act of this person is not a cruel act which must be punished by the Penal Code; on the contrary, it is an immense, immense act of love, an immense act of humanism and fidelity towards the person who suffers. Let us therefore make an allegation in favour of the individual's freedom, of a freedom that must be so great, so great that it includes the right to decide on one's own life and at the same time on one's own death. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent decades, major socio-economic changes, global improvements in living conditions and major technical and medical advances, i.e. their growing capacity to cure diseases, alleviate suffering and prolong people's lives, have led to an increase in life expectancy, resulting in an ageing population and an increase in chronic and irreversible diseases. It has also changed the type of health care and in the face of a model of a paternalistic medical-nurse relationship that has existed so far, characterized by a total protagonistism of the healthcare professional, a model of shared responsibility has gradually been opened up in which the sick person is increasingly involved in decision-making in his healing process, in his treatment or even in his end of life. We are also witnessing a greater awareness and consideration of the needs of people at the end of their lives, that is, of any very elderly person or one who has been diagnosed with an advanced, incurable, progressive, non-responding to specific treatments and who has a limited life expectancy over time; and also of the needs of those suffering from incurable, degenerative, very painful and severely debilitating diseases. We live, therefore, in an open and advanced society, prepared to deal with and resolve these kinds of situations with complete normality. And we, as political leaders and also, in this case as representatives of a party such as the PNV, consider it necessary and opportune to debate openly on these issues that affect and will affect each and every citizen, and establishing the principles, criteria and conditions for ensuring adequate attention from the Administration during the final process of life. [[democratic, plural, participatory, confessional and humanist, open to progress and to all movements of progress of civilization that improve the quality of life of people]] We can limit ourselves to what is marked by the proposed law or we can move further forward and move forward to what will happen irreversibly at some point. In any case, my group has no problem with this: neither to debate nor to move forward, nor to deal with these and other issues. The taboos are over. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents to us a proposal for a basic law, sensible in its objectives and in accordance with the ethical needs and dignity of the people, but does not - with all due respect - make any changes in the legislation or in the usual practice of health centres and professionals. It does not go beyond what the legislation foresees and the professional practice of health and the ethical codes of the socio-health environments develop for the vast majority. I say this, not because we are against what they propose - in no way, we share it in their central objectives without any doubt and we have been developing it for a long time, at least in Euskadi - but because the same parliamentary group - the Socialist Party of Euskadi or, let us say, its people in Euskadi - has submitted a non-legislative proposal in the Basque Parliament on the same subject and on the basis of the need to respond to a latent social and health situation, in which they urge Parliament to urge the Government of Spain to amend Article 143 of the Criminal Code in order to decriminalise assisted suicide. Meanwhile, you, in this motion for a law, gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, do not raise this issue. They repeat more than once in the proposition that it is clear and meridian that - I open quotes - the present law does not contemplate the possible alteration of such existing penalization - refer to 143- so euthanasia results in an action completely alien to the aspects regulated by this law. We are therefore faced with a proposal for a law that proposes to establish basic legislation that is non-existent, but fortunately developed, by the way of the facts, in most of the autonomous communities. Undoubtedly, as Petrarca said, a good death honors a lifetime. Beyond the Renaissance myths, the human being, conscious of his mortal nature, has sought well-being in life and surely has neglected the good end, assuming that agony and suffering were innate at the end of life. Social and health evolution, as well as getting rid of misunderstood moral pressure, have made us dignify the end of life in the face of suffering and pain. We understand that the end-of-life process must be integrated and integrated into the socio-health teams that respond to the physical, psychological, social, emotional and spiritual needs of all affected people. In order to achieve this objective, training and training of these professional teams in the process of death and mourning is essential in the first place. Traditionally, academic training has focused on healing as a goal, which has led professionals to lack in many cases clinical and personal tools to deal with situations in which it is not possible to cure the sick person. All people have the right to comprehensive palliative care from the moment of diagnosis of their disease; care that must be deepened and increased, as the therapeutic means of the underlying disease fail to achieve its curative goal or as the patient succumbs to it. This palliative care must undoubtedly be universal and accessible, both in the socio-health field and in the home of the patient. It is therefore necessary to analyse the needs of caregivers in order for care to be carried out without diminishing the quality of life of any of the parties involved. The non-initiation of a treatment or withdrawal of any treatment, including those aimed at the maintenance of life, is a right of all persons. This decision must be based on information on both the objectives of the treatment and the alternatives available, and also on the consequences that such a decision may have for the patient and his/her environment. In the case of Euskadi, we can say that all the issues raised in this bill, which is presented by the Socialist Group, are fulfilled through the facts. Similarly, a bill on the dignity and rights of persons at the end of life is currently under way in the Basque Parliament. We believe that the autonomous communities are the ones that, among other things, can and should develop their own legislative framework for this area. We are not very clear about what you understand as purely basic, and that the Socialist Party is bringing here, although we totally agree on two issues: that all must have these rights and that everywhere they should be applied or that there should be no cuts or restrictions on those rights of the sick, let alone bringing only the value of the decision of one of the parties. In the face of this situation, we could ask questions. How should people who suffer from slow and painful degenerative and incurable diseases be treated in an integral and respectful manner, with their dignity? Is it ethically acceptable to help a person who wishes to die because of his tremendous suffering? Who is it to establish what a worthy death is? Is the prolongation of life always a good thing or is it sometimes to give in to other medical and human considerations? Can life be extended at any cost? Is therapeutic obstinacy justified or what is the same, is it ethically acceptable to reduce therapeutic effort in certain situations and to let a person die? Does health care personnel have an obligation to be subject to the will of the patient even if he or she contradicts his or her professional judgement? And if you have it, do you have the right to conscientious objection? These are questions that we all certainly ask ourselves, and the legislative part that the Socialist Group brings us today as a legislative proposal contains elements that for our group must not be deleted. Moreover, we agree with all of them. And I reiterate again that we should take a step further and discuss more things because there are more situations; perhaps we can name it euthanasia, assisted suicide, dignified death, etc. People have lived and the moment comes when they have to die. Quality of life is important, but let's also talk about quality of death. Let death also have a quality...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u15	Mr Agirretxea, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u16	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we agree with the contents of the Socialist Group's proposal. Let us hope that one day we will discuss all these issues openly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to inform the Socialist Group that my group is going to vote in favour of this law being taken into consideration. It seems to us that there is a national law dealing with these issues, with advances in rights that have to do not only with the duration of life but, above all, with its dignity. We thank you and recognize this progress towards a well understood Jacobinism, in quotes. Because it is also true, and I am right to Mr Agirretxea who has just spoken before me, that there are autonomous laws like the Basque that contain this, even more content. We are not talking about a legislative desert, but in the autonomic field in this case, and that of celebrating, there are models that we can adopt and extend as a national law, because we do think that this is important, that is, that there is an equal right of health care throughout the national territory - I hope in the near future of Europe - and that this is not a question that has to do with the pure chance of where one resides or was born. It is therefore very good to raise this discussion. But having said that, I must also tell Mr Martínez Olmos and the Socialist Group that we were a little disappointed by the proposal they are making: it is a little short. All right, and we are going to support it and we are going to table amendments in the event that its processing is accepted, that there is a national law of what basically is - in my opinion - a law of advanced palliative care. That's good. It is important to regulate how they deal with patients in final situations, with their families if they cannot express themselves. It is very good to oppose therapeutic incarnation and all the paradoxical situations that are the result of two phenomena that, on the other hand, are concomitant: the growth of life expectancy and the advancement of medicine. The paradox is that the advancement of medicine has led to the possibility of keeping alive, but with a life in very bad conditions, people who would probably prefer not to live in the event that they had the opportunity to express themselves and, above all, that there was a legal framework that recognized that final will as a right and that, therefore, would be implemented. All that is very well, it is good that we regulate something in what we are always behind reality, in this case of the advancement of medicine, of therapeutic treatments, but only attend to certain aspects of what life is and not to its totality. Because to keep a body alive is not to keep a dignified life. It is important that it be regulated and that something be done so that agony, which is the end to which we are all engaged and which in classical Greek means struggle, is not an endless struggle and, moreover, an endless struggle that ends up defeating the dignity of the person who is struggling for his life, but sometimes, in the modern world, rather than for his life, to end it in a decent way. However, I wanted to tell you, within our support for your proposal, that we find this kind of flight from the background discussion here that is that of euthanasia somewhat regrettable. You say in the explanatory statement that there is great confusion about what euthanasia means. No, no, It's a messy argument like everyone else. I do not think there is any important discussion that is not confused by the dimes, directs, opinions and often absurdities and nonsense that are said, but no one doubts what euthanasia is, apart from its literal translation of good death into Greek. Euthanasia is assisted suicide, and there is from the legal and legal point of view an argument, which is already old, about whether assisted suicide should be legally accepted in its active or passive form. There are three countries in Europe that have already regulated, and with remarkable success, active assisted suicide. That is, the fact that a person decides to die, makes a living will in condition and is assisted by health personnel and that it is needed to die within a personal decision, without the people who help him commit suicide being persecuted by the institutions. There are other countries such as Germany that have also regulated passive assisted suicide, which is nothing other than giving up life-long treatments. We all know, and to deny it would be hypocrisy, that in Spain passive assisted suicide is usually practiced, because sedative treatment or the withdrawal of certain treatments makes life shorter and the person who is patient ceases to be so to die in peace. This is what really matters, that's the discussion. Whether we make a national palliative care law - it is something very worthy to celebrate - taking the best autonomic examples for the whole, is very good but it is very insufficient because this is no longer the discussion. And less in a society where there are more and more people living alone, there are more single-parent families, there is longer life expectancy, and there are more informed people who know what they want. The failure to assume the substantive discussion, as I say, does not have to do with whether the doctor can or cannot do something that virtually nobody today, other than a butcher, recommends that it is therapeutic incarnation to keep alive as one - to say it colloquially - human pillrafa. It is like discussing - imagine you who have also been in this a party that has done a good job, which we recognize - gay egalitarian marriage; it is as if we are talking about decriminalizing homosexuality. That has already happened, now we have to talk about the current; and the current is: let's talk about euthanasia. Do we want a law of euthanasia that recognizes and regulates - because we are always talking about legal regulation, so that there is no abuse - active assisted suicide or we do not want it? Are we staying on the liability? However, in a debate about this, one could talk about how much there is a certain mental reservation to what is basically a personal decision, or not? In your explanatory statement you say - you put a lot of emphasis on that and I am surprised - that it is clear that all this has nothing to do with euthanasia. Of course it has to do with it! If that's what you're talking about! Only they avoid the issue because it seems to them that it still seems a little dangerous to deal with. No, let's take a step forward. Palliative care is a very important thing, let us regulate it by law, that it is a right for everyone who passes that trance - of course it is - but let us not refuse, let us not be afraid to talk about things, their content and their meaning. Let us speak at once and try to regulate euthanasia in Spain, that is, suicide assisted by a personal decision, sufficiently contrasted, free and well documented. And then let's decide under what conditions we can do it. There are countries, as I said before, that have already done so, then we have experiences to learn from. But let us not reject the question, let us not say: Do not worry, because this has nothing to do with euthanasia; it only has to do with this. We have a mature society. One of the magnificent things that has happened in Spain - the historians of the future will recognize it - is an impressive change of mindset, as there has been no other country in the Western world, which has been moving from an ultra-conservative society in terms of morals and personal rights to an extremely tolerant society. That is the right political and social environment to discuss these issues. If not, when are we going to do it? Or will we continue to cultivate inequality and that those who can pay for it have private medical treatment that gives him the right to euthanasia and those who are committed to the public system do not, because there is no law to protect him? Because that would be the result of a national law that did not address the substantive issue. Here's the thing. This is not a situation other than the interruption of pregnancy or homosexual marriage or other arguments that are somewhat recurrent in which, in the end, in general and fortunately, the most favourable position has been imposed on the rights of individuals and on legal certainty. Because what we have to do is a law that gives legal certainty to everyone: to the affected individuals, that is to say to the patients - as they say in the health language - and to the healthcare or therapeutic support staff, psychologists, lawyers who are helping someone in that trance. That's what really matters. If you believe that in Spain people are not prepared to discuss euthanasia you have the clock very late. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mrs García Álvarez has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, Mr Martínez Olmos, in March 2012 my parliamentary group brought to debate a proposal for a law which sought to put on the table, without euphemisms of any kind, the right to die with dignity. We at that time, and also today, believe that legal changes must be tackled with courage and political decision so that anyone, at some point in their existence, could rationally shorten it and save themselves unnecessary agonistic sufferings. I am sure that all of you will remember the brilliant and emotional intervention of my colleague Ricardo Sixto. It is regrettable that religious conditions - very respectable, but belonging to private life - conditioned the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I remind you that you voted against it; you did not have the political courage to open a debate and listen to the opinion of the people, of whom you, Mr Martínez Olmos, very rightly say that you suffer and suffer the consequences of not having a law like the one we brought here at the time. In June of that same year you presented an initiative similar to that which we are voting on today. It was then my colleague Gaspar who told them that you, before our initiative, had not wanted to take on the challenge - I insist - and continued to employ euphemisms to avoid or avoid issues that people on the street are clear about and about which they are in favor. Ladies and gentlemen, people, citizens, are in favour of a dignified death or a good death, which is, as you acknowledge in your explanatory statement, what euthanasia means, although we agree that people also regard it as assisted suicide or passive suicide. As you were told in June 2012, we are not vindictive and will continue to be unrepentant and, therefore, we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. If we are going to denounce today as yesterday the existing taboo to talk about a process as natural as death. Again it seems that speaking clearly and plainly about the right of every person to a dignified death is a taboo difficult to circumvent and, therefore, it is obliged to use euphemistic titles that hide behind what we are telling him at this time and that other speakers have also told him. Today, as yesterday, we avoid talking about euthanasia, about the person's right to decide how and how he wants to live. There is still a lack of courage to call things by their name and adopt the relevant legal reforms. You are right, Mr Martínez Olmos, the citizens will demand it, but we will once again be late. This Member who speaks to you was a Member of the Madrid Assembly in 2005 and I remember - it is difficult to forget - what happened that year, specifically on 11 March, the first anniversary of the attacks in Madrid. As I say to you, it is difficult to forget the call of the then health adviser of the Community saying that at the Severo Ochoa Hospital in Leganés 400 homicides had been detected - pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, for barbarity. It was not true, but the stigma and incarnated attack on the center's professionals has remained. No one - I insist - no one, apologized, no one said I was wrong. Fear was then installed among the professionals and, unfortunately, that fear persists. We are pleased that the proposal brought this afternoon protects and regulates the right of the individual to decide whether or not to continue to be subjected to painful treatments that will not improve his or her situation. As other speakers have said, it is already being done in some autonomous communities, although it is no less true that in others the so-called conscientious objection prevails over the right of the person to die decently. Your Honor, I also say to you, as other speakers have already done, that there is still something missing from this initiative, and that it is still caught. We once again have the feeling that the most dogmatic and sectarian sectors of our country, those who will never understand the right to die worthily as they do not understand the right of women to decide about their motherhood, submit the will of politicians in developing laws or proposals that reflect the reality of many human beings. Those who constantly claim to defend the individual's freedom do not seem to take it into account when talking about these matters. They defend their freedom of choice, but only for economic matters; however, they have no problem in meddling and intervening in the private life of people, in the sphere of their most intimate decisions, where only each of us is able to choose. And they do so in the name of beliefs and convictions that, as I have already pointed out, are intimate and personal, but that they constantly try to impose on others. It is high time that all the politicians in this House refused to follow these kinds of issues. Here we do not legislate for a part of society, we legislate for the whole society, for a life worthy of the whole society, and not what a few want. We are talking about respect, humanity, freedom, dignity. No one - I insist, no one - has the right to tell others how they have to end their days when pain and/or illness make them unbearable. That decision is personal and, as such, non-transferable. We all want and want the end of our days to be as peaceful and serene as possible. When we hear that a person has died while sleeping, we hope that when the time of our death comes it will be similar. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with what my colleagues Ricardo and Gaspar said about this three years ago: A complete initiative on good dying or on the final trance of life consequently leads to and reaches euthanasia. Take all of you into account. Today's question is the same as that of the past: are we ever going to assume the whole final process of life as a right? Are we gonna do it? I insist that - you said it and we reiterate it - citizens will do it, and we, once again, as legislators are likely to be late. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Tarruella has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Convergence i Unió believes that this proposal for a law, regulating the rights of the person before the final process of life, is currently unnecessary, as we said here in June 2012 in the debate we had about this same non-law proposal. I'll explain why. It is not because we disagree with the content, because we completely agree and subscribe to almost everything, except small nuances. If we could discuss this bill and make amendments we would probably amend some articles, but we generally agree with its content. Then why do I say it's unnecessary? Because the ability to regulate these laws is in the autonomous parliaments. In Catalonia we have this law, which is working well; at the moment a review of the vital will is being made and how to make it more accessible to everyone. This rule is autonomous. Other autonomous communities also have it, such as the Basque Country - said the comrade of the Basque Nationalist Party -, Andalusia or Navarre. The people we believe in the autonomous parliaments and the autonomous communities think that this is where these laws would have to be developed. Having said that, I also say that we are not going to oppose this procedure. Our parliamentary group is going to abstain on this competition issue. As I said, we would agree with the content, but we believe that we need to be more respectful of the competition issue and that there is no need to relegate on what is already there. I wanted to make a few small comments, small comments that have already been made before my speaking time. I have to say that by bringing this non-legislative proposal here now, at the end of the parliamentary term - we told it in June 2012, when we talked about this again - we run the risk of opening up a debate, from our point of view unnecessary, between polarized political options that bring more confusion to professionals and patients themselves. We must bear in mind that the proposal for a law comes into the regulation of matters and competences that the autonomous communities have transferred and that they must manage with their own resources, which collects as a guarantee of the citizen benefits whose effectiveness will depend on many factors - economic factors of prioritization of resources - and which can also compromise actions that do not depend on the will of this Spanish Parliament. Some of the actions that would have to work as an alternative to this law would be related to ensuring a uniform health service portfolio in all autonomous communities, establishing ratios of health and professional resources, ensuring care practice based on the best available scientific evidence, training professionals in palliative care, and ensuring compliance with existing regulations regarding patient autonomy and rights and obligations in the area of clinical information and documentation. There is a palliative care strategy, a strategy that was revised in 2010; moreover, I recall that at the first appearance of the current minister in the Commission I mentioned that it was necessary to review and enhance it again. This year, World Cancer Day, the Spanish Cancer Association reminded us of the importance of implementing this palliative care strategy in all the autonomous communities, which in some of them work well and in others not so well, as it also reminded us of the importance of the creation of pediatric palliative care. As I say, we have nothing to add to the content of this bill. If we bring here the law in force in Catalonia you will see that it is very similar, perhaps a little broader, adapted to the reality and social needs that exist in Catalonia at the moment. I also want to say that it was a senator of Convergence i Unió, party partner, Mr. Jaume Cardona, who brought to the Senate the National Personal Autonomy Act, currently in force. I remember it with great emotion because when he brought to the Senate the proposal to do what today is the Law of Last Wills he was already a terminally ill, died shortly after passing that law and did so with great pride and dignity. That law, which already covers the entire national territory, we believe that if it were developed and enforced, it would sumptuously cover everything that this proposed law tells us. And you will tell me that if there is an invasion of competences, if I consider it unnecessary, why don't I vote against it? For it seems to us that if in some autonomous community it is not done, people are above all and have the right, at the end of life, to be respectful to them at those times, not to be embodied with them with unnecessary therapeutic measures, to have no pain, to face the final stage of life with the utmost dignity. That seems important to us, and we are therefore abstaining in this proposal for a law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. For the People's Group I have the word Don Ovidio Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I come out to defend the position of the People's Party on the proposal for a law that Mr Martínez Olmos has defended. This is the same initiative that he already defended in 2012 and with the same arguments. Mr Martínez Olmos has a good dialectic, because he thinks what we are going to say and answers us in his speech. Instead of presenting the law and its goodness, he talks about us, the Church and I don't know what other Chinese tales. I was listening to him - you probably didn't know I was going to intervene - and I thought, "But what are you talking about! [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we are all absolutely in agreement on dignified death; that is no new debate. Already in 2002, at the time of Ana Pastor, a Law on Patient Autonomy was made, from which other laws are becoming in the autonomous communities in order to avoid precisely this absolutely unnecessary suffering and to give dignity at the time of death. All our sick people have great dignity and at no time can we accept expressions like human pillrapha. Nor in the worst circumstances can we accept that of treating our sick people as human Piltraphas, an expression that was said here today and which I hope is not recorded or corrected in the 'Diary of Sessions'. We therefore start with great unanimity in our feelings. Then you take the shortcut saying that this is a fundamental, extraordinary law in respect of which there is a popular cry. The question is, why didn't you guys do it? Or is it that the dignity of human death is something from now on? Was there no dignity when you ruled? Because in 2010 Mr. Rubalcaba announced that they were going to make a law on dignified death. She arrived 2011 and was not brought in, and then they said they couldn't bring her because the Courts were dissolved. Didn't they have time in eight years to make a law? Or is it that we are talking about something else, a kind of pre-electoral rally to bring out feelings in the deepest of people who can provoke confrontations? They will not find us there; this issue is absolutely important. Therefore, we tell you what other speakers have already told you, and it is that in Andalusia there is already the same law that you propose, as in Catalonia - they have just told you - in Navarre or Valencia, and in Galicia it is adopted on Monday unanimously by all the parties. On the other hand, and within the palliative care strategy, we are certain that all the autonomous communities are working in the line of achieving dignified death and avoiding suffering. Therefore, as you have been told before, it is an unnecessary law. Fortunately, this need is now being met; all the autonomous communities are aware of it and also have the competence to do so. And I'll tell you something else, Mr. Martínez Olmos, don't use these topics to take them to the election campaign or to take shortcuts, because they won't find us there. They will meet us with the sick and make their suffering as little as possible, and all autonomous communities work in that line. Therefore, we are not going to support his initiative, but not because we do not share this issue, but because we have the certainty and the calmness that this is already being done and that fortunately all our patients have great dignity and the care they need not to suffer unnecessarily. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO POSSIBILIZE WORKERS TO START AN EMPLOYMENT REGULATORY EXPENDITURE FOR THE EXTINTION OF THEIR CONTRACTS, [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] STARTING THE PROCEDURE AND BEING INJURYED BY IT. [[File number 122/000150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u26	Proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group to enable workers to initiate a regulatory employment file for the termination of their contracts, when the employer does not initiate the procedure and is adversely affected by it. [[Convergence and Union]] Mr Campuzano has the floor to present this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we present a proposal for a very simple bill, we intend to amend Article 51 of the Workers' Statute by introducing a new paragraph 12 and, in line with that amendment of the Workers' Statute, to amend Article 108 of the General Law on Social Security. Therefore, in strict terms, this is the reform we are proposing and with it we intend to correct a situation that was badly resolved in the 2012 labour reform. In the context of the disappearance of the administrative control of the regulatory files, the possibility also fell that the workers could institute a regulatory file, a situation that has caused during these years of validity of the norm harsh situations for workers employed in companies in crisis situations. These are non-solvent companies, which are not paying their wages to their workers but which at the same time do not fire them, do not initiate a regulatory employment file with the consequences that this has for these workers, workers who do not pay wages, nor can they receive unemployment benefit, nor can they receive the corresponding compensation and in addition the legal channels they have to be able to access such protection are difficult, complex and time-consuming. [[The lady]] In the various royal decrees that have been dealt with during this parliamentary term in labour matters, Convergence i Unió has proposed amendments to try to correct this situation and we have unfortunately not found the support of the People's Group to be able to resolve this issue. Finally, in February 2014, we decided to present this bill to try to resolve it. And I said at the beginning of my speech that it is a simple bill law proposal because we are talking about very specific amendments to the Workers' Statute and the General Social Security Act that could allow in the weeks, few months that we have left of the legislature, to be able to resolve this if there is political will. We will listen very carefully to the arguments of the Group of the European People's Party on this issue, especially if they are in favour of consideration, but we will also listen to them if they are not because we do not think that we are strictly faced with a political, ideological, model of labour relations dispute, but with the need to resolve real situations in our economy and in our society. Moreover, the origin of this initiative of Convergence i Unió is situated in the case of a Sabadell company at the beginning of this crisis, when the workers told us the situation they were experiencing, which provoked some initiatives of our parliamentary group vis-à-vis the labor authority and also within the Chamber with the corresponding questions. And this action, together with the work of the workers' representatives, led the company to finally initiate a regulatory employment file to resolve this issue. I would like the People's Group to make an effort to understand the substance of the matter and to be able to resolve it. He also said that it is a relatively simple debate - that of the proposal for a law - and that I am sure that it will provoke in the ladies and gentlemen who are going to intervene after me a debate on the state of the labour market in Spain at this time and on the consequences of the labour reform adopted in 2012 together with the rest of the reforms that have been approved. Therefore, I also use this intervention to frame this initiative in this three-year context of the 2012 labour reform, in which we can see a fact that is positive as well as the clear facts that exist in this area. The positive fact, which is hardly questionable, is that in the context in which we are installed with less economic growth, more jobs are being created. In the specific case of Catalonia, we have come from twenty-three months of job recovery and a decline in unemployment. Therefore, with regard to the beginning of the legislature, the change in trend is indisputable. However, we are fully aware that at no time can such a dynamic allow for an optimistic or grandiose view of the functioning of our labour market. Today we continue with 3 million fewer jobs than before the beginning of the crisis, not before this legislature, and with about 300,000 fewer jobs than before the adoption of the labour reform. In the field of employment, therefore, the path to be followed remains endless. Moreover, we are aware - no one can escape because he has been the subject of discussions in the House in recent months - that a non-minor part of the job that is being created is precarious employment. In that view, with less growth, we must say that we have a problem of quality of employment and that new realities have emerged that we did not know in our society, such as those that make up those people who, having jobs, with the salary they earn working cannot afford a sufficient and dignified life. It's what's known as a poor worker. The approach on how we should deal with the issues of the labour market, the quantity - the employment we need - and the quality of employment - and the type of employment we need will continue to be fundamental in the near future - and certainly no longer in this legislature, but in the next. At a time when the debate on inequalities has been set up in all the advanced countries, including the Spanish State - these same days another report from the International Monetary Fund has been published dealing with the question of inequalities - in our case this issue is linked - not exclusively, but very much - to the functioning of our labour market, with unemployment rates that exceed 20% and with that employment of insufficient quality it is clear that we have a problem. We have said on several occasions, both in this legislature and in the one in which the Socialist Party ruled, and my group reaffirms this, that Spain began to face this economic crisis with a system of labour relations not sufficiently prepared to deal with the situation we are experiencing and the result was the destruction of millions of jobs: a system of labour relations that did not give sufficient alternatives to companies to avoid their destruction. We must remember that a very significant part of the employment destroyed has not been destroyed exclusively by the dismissal carried out by the companies, but by those companies that lose all their workers. In addition, the recovery of the Spanish economy's ability to compete required a wage adjustment in view of the lack of an alternative to currency devaluation. My group has quoted - and again today - Paul Krugman, who when analyzing the Spanish economic situation in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, warned us that we did not have too many alternatives: we could not devalue the currency and the improvement of competitiveness went through this wage adjustment. It is true that this wage adjustment has been, in equitable terms, concentrated on the lowest wages and the unemployed and, therefore, society's perception is that the costs of the crisis have not been shared equally. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going to force in the coming times, at a time of economic recovery, of economic growth, to ask whether or not economic growth must be better distributed and that our economic and labour policies must incorporate that dimension of economic growth that is capable of better distributing and avoiding inequalities, that is, more just growth. We will see in the next legislature how we are able, on the existing framework of labour relations and on the basis of the correlations of political forces that occur in the Congress of Deputies, to establish new realities. Some have committed themselves to repealing the 2012 labour reform; others may be committed to changing the set of labour reforms that have taken place in the past four or five years; others will be in favour of our labour market being able to maintain the flexibility that requires us to compete in the global economy because it is not imaginable to believe that the rigidest labour markets are those that best guarantee employment. It is good to analyse the reforms that are taking place in the other two major states of Europe where the centre of the left is governed. Today, Le Monde was covering the report that the French Government has commissioned in this area. In Italy just a few weeks ago, the Renzi Government adopted a reform of the labour market. It would be good for us to be able to maintain the logic of a flexible labour system, to give companies tools to adapt to the needs of the labour market, but at the same time to be able to recover social cooperation and agreements between employers and workers to govern our labour relations system. We have said that the recent agreement of the social partners on wages is a good agreement that goes in the direction of what it touches. It is clear that the capacity of collective bargaining will have to be strengthened in the next legislature to respond to the issues raised. The main issue on which my group disagreed in the reform adopted in 2012 was precisely the primacy of the company agreement. It was the main discrepancy we had with the Government in that reform. We are more in favour of a coordinated system of collective bargaining and believe that this can favour small and medium-sized enterprises. But it is clear that our labour market in the next parliamentary term will have to continue to face a phenomenon that in the last fifteen or twenty years - also this parliamentary term - we have not finished solving, which is the phenomenon of the duality of our labour market. It is true that today we have less temporality than we have had in the record moments of temporality of our labour market - I would like to remind you that in the 1990s we are at 35% temporality and we are at 24% - we are better than then, but we cannot say that we are well or that the temporality we have is strictly the result of the composition of our productive fabric. My group has been insisting for some time that the answer to that, among other issues, has to do with being able to incorporate into our labour market what we have colloquially known as the Austrian model, a mechanism that articulates in a different way the compensation for dismissal, avoiding the uncertainties and costs that the current system constitutes above all for small and medium-sized enterprises and without losing any right to workers. Progress will have to be made in simplifying contracts. My group does not share the enthusiasm of other groups in the House for the single contract, but the need to simplify recruitment. There will have to be a substantial increase in the minimum wage to ensure better wages. We will have to go towards a review of labour taxation. Better unemployment coverage will have to be achieved, especially for those over fifty-five years of age without any perspective, and the functioning of active employment policies will have to be thoroughly addressed, the major issue pending in this legislature where the Government has opted for a cut in employment policies which has made such a flexible reform not accompanied by security for the re-entry of workers into the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have weeks of plenary, but it is good that we begin to look beyond this legislature and that we are able to begin to agree on how we can address the fundamental questions of employment, which are relevant, which are fundamental and which, today, remain unanswered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. He has requested the use of the turn against the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, and on his behalf Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I cannot escape my astonishment. The more I read the proposed law of Convergence and Union, the more stupefaction it produces me. I think you will understand this because I suppose you will remember that CiU is, among other things, co-responsible, co-author of the problem that, now you say, they want to solve us. It was not in vain their votes and those of the People's Party that approved the labor reform of 2012 which, among other things, meant the disappearance of the prior administrative authorization in the employment regulation files. Of course everyone has the right to rectify and Convergència i Union as well, but does Convergència i Union really rectify today, or does it intend to scrape the nail even more? Because, I don't know if you have realized that what the Convergence Group has put together, far from improving workers' rights, if approved, would substantially weaken them. I will try to explain it during my speech, but before I can remember, for those who use demoralism as a political weapon, what has happened during this legislature and more specifically with the labor reform approved with the votes of Convergence and Union. What has happened, among other things, is that the prior administrative authorization provided for in article 51 of the Workers'Statute has disappeared, which obliged companies to a certain procedure when they wanted to collectively terminate employment contracts for economic, technological, productive or organizational reasons. I would like to remind you that this - I repeat - was done in a concerted manner between the People's Party and Convergence i Union, and not with little enthusiasm on the part of Mr Campuzano's group. The result of this, what is said, has been a severe precariousness of working conditions, and even the contracts that some say have created the reform are increasingly precarious, but above all it has weakened the situation of workers in their employment relationship because it has weakened the role of trade union organisations and has unbalanced all the processes of participation and negotiation which, in short, is the great hidden objective of this labour reform because what it was trying to do was to impose wage depreciation, but not cyclically to get out of the crisis, but structurally. That is certainly the real goal and they have achieved it; it is a success of the labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence i Unió. One of the mechanisms used by the architects of labour reform to weaken the position of workers and their representatives in trade unions has been the disappearance of prior administrative authorization by the labour authority. Remember, ladies and gentlemen - those who have not deliberately lost their memory - that this was a claim long pursued by the economic powers of this country; indeed, from the very moment of the adoption of the Workers' Statute in 1980, always, repeatedly, the objective of the economic powers in view of any possibility of a labour reform within the maximum programme of the right and those economic powers was the disappearance of such administrative authorization. And in the end they got it in 2012; they got it taking advantage of the impact of a deep economic crisis, having six million unemployed people, which generates a situation of fear and clearly unfavorable for these workers. And, of course, after having clearly weakened the intervention capacity and power of trade union organisations. In that sense, I have no problem with saying that the People's Party and Convergence i Union took advantage of the crisis in an opportunistic way to achieve, thirty-two years later, what has already been raised from the beginning, which is the disappearance of that administrative control. [[The lady]] Since the approval of the labour reform, the administrative authorization has disappeared and has been replaced by the unilateral decision of the employer, with judicial control a posteriori. A judicial review which, by the way, labour reform has tried to reduce to a minimum, even trying to deny and hinder the judicial role of judges and courts. Today, three years later, we already know the effects of that legislative commitment. I do not know what the legislators of the next legislature are going to do, but I do know that workers cannot wait to see how the negative impacts of this labour reform are resolved. What we have today is a clear weakening of the position of workers and trade unions vis-à-vis employment regulation dossiers, which has produced a number of effects that are documented and that does not deny anyone. A disincentive to negotiation; it is logical, when one of the parties does not need to negotiate because it can unilaterally impose its conditions, why will it negotiate? Of course, the negotiation processes are maintained and even, in those previous processes, many end up in agreement, but what agreements? These agreements are much more unfavourable than those that have been made so far because there is one party that plays with the threat of unilateral decision and another that goes to the negotiation chained by that labor reform that knows it delimits its negotiating capacity. The result has been, and is more than documented, an intensive destruction of employment and even what those who know about it call a preventive destruction; more jobs have been destroyed than those that could be justified by the economic situation, because this labour reform has enabled companies to replace workers with high-quality jobs by others who are very precarious directly or through subcontracted companies, which is one of the major tools for the deterioration of working conditions. And of course, the average amounts of compensation have been reduced. All these are the consequences of that bet made by the People's Party and Convergence and Union. On the contrary, remember, the aim was to give more certainty to businesses, to facilitate more job maintenance and to stabilize labour relations. Let's see if that's happened or not. The truth is that in the maintenance of jobs everything is questionable but, when the data are analyzed, it is seen that from March 2012 the intensive process of destruction of jobs not only has to do with the crisis - I insist - it has to do with that factor of anticipation of the crises that makes the law allow preventive dismissals of that nature. Stability in labour relations and certainty in companies? Neither. Why? Because what some call certainty for businesses is absolute freedom to fire and with the cheapest possible compensation. That goes against the rule of law, but that's what they were trying to do. Judges and magistrates have refused to exercise the role that the Minister of Employment had given them, which is that of mere notaries: to take note of business decisions. Thus, the Minister of Employment has had the opportunity to make public her complaints to the media complaining about the obstruction that judges and courts were making of their labour reform. Performance of judges and tribunals in the performance of their duties. I would like to recall - they recalled from the beginning - that the role of judges and courts is to control the legality, proportionality and reasonableness of the measures taken by companies, and that did not feel right from the beginning to the architects of the reform. That is why we find ourselves in a situation of permanent complaint on the part of these economic powers because of the little collaboration that are the judges and courts of the social order. Of course, some have not felt well that the judges and courts have handed down nullity or wrongful dismissals, for example in Coca Cola; they would have liked much more than, made the decision by the Coca Cola company of the closure of the Fuenlabrada plant, the only function that the judges would have had was to take note as notaries. Fortunately, the judges and courts of that country have decided to exercise their constitutional role. So that's why I hope they haven't been unnoticed by the reaction that the big corporate law firms have had. A acquaintance of this country, Mr Durán, then President of the Economic and Social Council, has come to qualify the judges who do that as assault judges, and some media has called them dynamite judges of the reform. The lobbying capacity is important. Well, it seems that not content with that is now preparing a new offensive. What do these economic powers want? Purely and exclusively that there is no administrative authorization and that there is no judicial control or that such judicial control is so scarce that it does not protect the rights of workers. And in case the incumbent representative of the economic powers of this country, the People's Party, were not enough and weak, some - the Progressive Union and Democracy at one time and now it seems that Citizens in another - have come to pose the great solution, which is that of the single contract. With the single contract it would no longer make sense this debate that we are doing because no matter how beautiful the name is, in the end, a decausal contract with the possibility of dismissing workers without cause and with a fixed compensation; that is, by disappearing the guarantee to the job, the right to work of the workers. As you can see, some are insatiable. This is the context in which this initiative takes place, this proposal for a law of Convergence and Union. Convergence i Unió, as if during these three years he had been living in Jupiter, comes and proposes to us to recover the administrative authorization, but not for all the regulatory files, no, no, only for those cases in which, he says, not to do so would cause injury to the workers due to inaction of the company. It looks nice, doesn't it? It's even paternal. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you have not been overlooked a question and that at the moment the workers already have a mechanism to act in the face of this inaction situation of the company. Where an undertaking does not work, where an undertaking does not pay its workers, where an undertaking does not fulfil its labour obligations, the Workers' Statute, in its Article 50, provides for the possibility for workers to request the termination of their employment contract. What is the difference between what exists at the moment, Article 50, and what is proposed to us by Convergence i Unió to rescue the workers, affected by the fact of their misdemeanour - legal or political misdemeanour, but misdemeanour -? What Article 50 says is that the compensation will be forty-five or thirty-three days per year for wrongful dismissal, but if the proposal presented to us by the Convergence Group was approved, the way workers would have to ask for their employment regulation file, with what compensation? Twenty days a year. Please, Mr Campuzano, the workers of this country do not need you to come to save them from the barbarities caused by their policies; they are already saved alone from that perspective. The truth is that we have had doubts about whether to vote in favour and then table an amendment to the whole and propose the recovery of the total administrative authorization for all the assumptions, so that it will again protect those who have been unprotected, but we have decided not to enter that game and that is why I am here in this turn against which, of course, it is a turn against and in favour of; against this proposed law and in favour of restoring once and for all the rights that you and the People's Party have taken from the workers with the labour reform. I end with a reference to Catalonia, because of course, you are the Catalan group and this has a deeply Catalan dimension. You are in favour of increasing Catalonia's sovereignty, but in labour relations you do exactly the opposite, because when it comes to disputing Catalonia's sovereignty to Spain you are very belligerent, but when it comes to taking that sovereignty and giving it to markets and economic powers, you are enchanted with life. You want the powers not to exercise them but to neutralize them and give them to economic powers and businesses. It is a very peculiar concept that you have of sovereignty. The truth is that in labor reform you made a good pact. The Part-Time Constitutionalists of the People's Party and the Part-Time Sovereignists of Convergence and Union agreed. For what? To give the sovereignty and rights of the Constitution to the market and businesses. A suggestion, ladies and gentlemen of CiU, I believe that yes, Catalonia must extend its sovereignty, and if it is necessary to extend even more what is known in Catalonia as state structures, it would not seem more appropriate to you than before building new state structures would not be dedicated to destroying those that already exist. Because that's what they've done. Catalonia had something similar to a state structure, it had the capacity as a labour authority to authorize whether or not to approve an employment regulation file and you gave it to the economic powers. Before you ask for more sovereignty, it would be good not to give up what you already have for free. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Gentlemen of Convergence and Union, you see them coming.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u30	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Coscubiela, I thank you for your turn against me. I have the impression that this is the first time, since the years I have been in this House, that an opposition group has put this opportunity before another opposition group; in the end, it will discuss a specific issue further. Our approach in this matter and in most subjects is very undogmatic, and the lack of dogmatism in general in life allows you to correct, allows you to rectify, allows you to adapt to reality. When you find that there is a reality that doesn't work and you have the ability to try to improve it, you make a proposal. That is what we have done in this initiative, and in my speech we have not hidden anything either. My group voted in favour of labour reform. It is known, therefore, there is no concealment of anything. What is at stake is a set-up on the table of issues of concern to us. My group was, in fact, about the abolition of the administrative use of regulatory files, among other issues because the existing regulation in Spain was an anomaly in the European context and, moreover, in practice, most of the regulatory files that have been approved during this time have occurred with agreements of the social partners. Mr Coscubiela, I have the feeling that my group has more confidence than you in two things; more confidence in the social partners and more confidence in the judges. We said from the first day, and the facts have shown us, that this labor reform, the one of 2012, like the labor reform of 2010 or previous labor reforms, did not modify the pillars of the system of labor relations existing in Spain, that judicial control would continue to exist and that if there were abuses by companies in application of the norm, the judges would comply with and correct those business corrections; and there have been corrections by the judges applying that labor reform. We also said that this labour reform, in many ways, would boost collective bargaining, and in some respects it would have done so. When a few days ago the social partners reached an agreement affecting collective bargaining, they expressed that collective bargaining is still alive, that is, with that discrepancy that I pointed out to you in relation to the primacy of the company agreement that we had with the People's Party. In a country that loses millions of jobs between 2008 and 2012, Mr Coscubiela claims to me the existing labour relations system before seems amazing to me. Mr Coscubiela also did not agree with the 2010 reform, perhaps with the 1997 reform, because then he had another role in our collective life, and it came to pass in 1997 that the unions agreed with the then government of the People's Party on a labour reform that introduced a contract with a lower compensation cost: the contract with thirty-three days. In 1997, when he did not act as a Member, as much as a perhaps freer look at the political discussion, it was acknowledged that one of the problems in our labour market was at the different cost of compensation between fixed and temporary contracts. We will be very careful, Mr Coscubala, in the next parliamentary term, if you have the capacity to influence, to correct the problem of duality, because the other measures, those of making the labour market more rigid, have not served to correct duality. Perhaps you wanted to go to 1983, before the 1984 reform. I am very afraid, Mr Coscubiela, that the world of the 1980s has very little to do with the world of 2020 to which we are going. And on the conservative left they continue to have no answer to the main problem of our economy, which is globalization, technological change and its impact on the labour market. A progressive proposal would be that it seeks to improve the quality of employment must address how we compete in the global economy, how we deal with technological change, not with the rules that may have served in the 1980s or 1970s but that do not serve now. There, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the left that you represent is so conservative, and not just conservative, but keeps an eye on good and bad, which is not what the countries we want to look like have. In the countries to which we want to appear they are convinced that the best guarantee of employment is companies, that without companies there is no employment, and sometimes listening to it I have the feeling that you are part of the prejudice that the problem that our economy has is companies and entrepreneurs. On the contrary, the fate of our economy is business and business; that is, with a fair and adequate labour relations system. I invite you to take into consideration our proposal for a law, to support us in this process, as you have supported us on this issue in other legislative discussions and I could do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u32	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Campuzano, I'm sorry, but you have a very bad memory for a lot of things. A few months ago we were discussing the single contract on the proposal of Union Progreso and Democracy and a servant called for the vote against a bill. I, yes, and I've been arguing with Don Álvaro Anchoelo. I mean, it's not the first time either. Secondly, I know that you do not hide the support of Convergence i Joined the 2012 labor reform; you do not hide it here, but as it turns out that you are specialists in trying to hide in Catalonia what you do in Spain or, in other words, you like to cry in Catalonia the consequences of the decisions you make in Spain, I remember it in case it goes well that some medium of communication highlights it and then you also appear as responsible, and also proud - who are - of that labor reform. Thirdly, I would remind you that it is true that collective redundancies are regulated at European level by a directive providing for the possibility of the Spanish model, but I would also remind you that it provides for the possibility of maintaining prior administrative authorizations. And, please, when we compare models of labour relations, let's be a little curious because maybe I, if I were German and had a supervisory committee in the companies, where you don't approve of an employment regulation file or a modification of working conditions without going through the supervisory committee, would still be as modern as you. But with the monitoring committee, with the co-management or with the intervention in the companies, not with a subordinate position and negotiating with hands absolutely manipulated. Mr Campuzano, you know enough because you are a great connoisseur - we have been interlocutors for a long time - that with previous administrative authorizations there was also a negotiation process and there was no rigidity, as you try to explain. In Catalonia, which is the place that you and I know best, the vast majority of files ended with agreement. What was going on? That because there was a more balanced power, sometimes there were fewer layoffs than the company initially wanted to put forward and the compensations were often higher, because for a multinational to close and take the benefits to another country because it shares something with the workers it is firing. Yeah, yeah, that's right. What has happened since his labour reform is that this negotiation has been profoundly unbalanced. You have chosen a bad example, and above all I think a bad interlocutor in relation to trust in the social partners. If anything I have, among other things, it's that trust. In any case, you trust the social partners in a very peculiar way because in the labour reform you have not only done the foolish thing of voting for the disappearance of the prior administrative authorization, but I remind you that your confidence in the social partners goes through reforms in collective bargaining that allow companies to unilaterally withdraw from collective agreements, which allows companies to apply ultraactivity to the point that some have tried to move that phenomenon from what the collective agreement establishes to the minimum wage wage tables. Fortunately, judges have prevented this, but that was among the objectives of labour reform. Do not have so much confidence in the social partners and, above all, do not restrict them as much as you have done in labour reform. With regard to collective bargaining, what this labour reform has done is to completely unbalance the capacity of the social partners to benefit businesses and to the detriment of workers. At this point in my life, with the age I have and my experience, to prove that I have great value to the entrepreneur, to the entrepreneur, I think it is enough. I have shown it throughout my life, but that is true, to the entrepreneur, to the entrepreneur, to the entrepreneur, to the one who creates wealth, not to the one who externalizes risks, not to the speculator, not to the one who thinks that giving value to the shareholder consists in firing many workers in order to raise the value of the shares. I'm so sorry. If, for example, you, in dealing with this motion for a law, join in the amendment that our group is going to table proposing the recovery of prior administrative authorization, I will perhaps repeat my vote, but if not, I will not. Someday we will have a chance to discuss what it is to be conservative or not and what it is to be modern in the 21st century. The truth is that the modernity of some - they are called the People's Party or in some things Convergence i Unió - is a modernity that I don't like anything, because the modernity of recovering a model of labor relations from the early 20th century is anything but modernity, it's a step back. Good thing you didn't take me out of Sweden because...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u34	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u35	I'm done. Perhaps it is necessary to look less social democracy and apply it a little more to the policies that are being made. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u36	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr Azpiazu has the floor on behalf of the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Convergence Parliamentary Group in order to enable workers to initiate a regulatory employment file for the termination of their contracts when the employer does not initiate the procedure and is adversely affected by it. We will do so on the basis of the following considerations. The labour reform, carried out through Law 3/2012 of 6 July, amends Article 51 of the Workers' Statute, which provided for the possibility that workers could, through their representatives, initiate an employment regulation file when it is rationally presumed that the employer's failure to initiate it could cause them harm that was impossible or difficult to repair. We were faced with companies with losses that maintain with all their important and persistent workers wage debts and that stop paying the quotas to Social Security without initiating an employment regulation file that allows, as a minor evil, an orderly extinction of the contracts, forcing the workers to go to the extinction of the same ones. The procedure provided for in the case in which the file was initiated by the workers was a simple procedure, drastically reducing the documentation to be submitted and resolving it by the labour authority. As the 2012 labour reform disempowers the labour authority from its competences in the field of collective redundancies, this possibility of ERE being initiated by the workers also disappeared, maintaining the situation of damage, impossible or difficult to repair, derived from business inactivity. For all of the above, the Catalan Group's proposal for a law aims, with relevance, to legitimize the competent labour authority to initiate collective dismissal procedures and to resolve them when the employer's conduct could cause injury to workers of impossible or difficult reparation. In such cases, the labour authority shall determine the necessary actions and reports, and the Labour Inspectorate shall be required to decide within the time limit of Article 51 of the Staff Regulations which it sets out for the period of consultation. Our parliamentary group, in the debate on labour reform, has always opposed the disempowerment of labour authority in collective redundancies, which could only be initiated by the employer for economic, technological or force majeure reasons, disempowerment whose negative consequences are already observed in this proposed law which we are debating and which, as I said, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u38	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to Mr Campuzano and Mr Coscubiela and I was reminded of that saying of popular wisdom that between a dog and a shepherd the truth was not known, because two incomplete versions do not necessarily give a complete interpretation. The approach of our parliamentary group is that of the framework of labour relations, a framework which is a correspondence - not necessarily equal in all cases - between the rights and obligations of employers and workers. From this perspective, any discourse that hegemonizes one of the two parts of the relationship or focuses exclusively on one of them is incomplete; and, of course, any break in this correspondence of rights and obligations between the two parties causes an imbalance in the contractual relationship between the two parties, which perverts their useful meaning, generally harming the weaker part, that is, the workers, and almost always transferring to society, through the State administration, the economic damage of this socio-laboral misadjustment. I am not going to have a debate on labour reform, the relevance or not of labour reform, the harmful or beneficial consequences of labour reform, because what I want is to focus the debate on the proposed law presented by the Catalan Parliamentary Group. What is the purpose of EREs, of employment regulation dossiers? He's already signed up for my PNV colleague. The purpose of the employment regulation dossiers, primarily and primarily, is to ensure the continuity of the economic activity of companies which, as they are in crisis, have to adjust their costs in order to ensure, to the extent possible, their viability in the medium and long term and, with it, that of jobs. It is not, therefore, to facilitate free dismissal at the will of the employer. Nor is it to serve as a tool for business strategies whose purpose is, through the dismissal of workers, to increase profits at the expense not only of workers, but - let us not forget - also of the public coffers. From this perspective, it makes full sense that the procedure for the initiation of an ERE can be requested by the worker, as well as by the employer. Indeed, we agree on the idea that we must restore control, the authorization of the labour authority, the administrative authority, for these dismissal processes. Ladies and gentlemen, abuses are taking place especially on the part of a type of company. We forget that the labour market is not homogeneous either regionally or sectorally and not entrepreneurially. Who are the companies that are abusing EREs to make these readjustments to their business strategies and increase profits at the expense of employment? They are the big national companies with centers distributed in different parts of the territory or multinational companies. We have specific cases such as that of Panrico in Catalonia; the case of the multinational Bosal, which closed its center in Sagunto despite the fact that the whole of the multinational was very profitable; also the recent case - which has already taken place here - of Coca-Cola, in which a court has had to reverse the employment regulation file of its center in Fuenlabrada. These are the companies that abuse a tool that is designed - as I said before - to safeguard business continuity and not to fire workers. We believe that we must support this proposal not because we do not believe that prior administrative authorization should also be introduced for the decisions of employers, employers, but because we believe that this proposal, as it has been brought forward, is incomplete. Mr. Campuzano said: We made a simple bill. But you have made it so simple that you really do not distinguish between large national or multinational companies - that you do abuse the EREs by burdening on the State's coffers those staffing adjustments with which to increase their profits - from most small and medium-sized enterprises, where the entrepreneur, in many cases, risks his own wealth and that of his family to guarantee the credits that make those companies viable. This is a fundamental distinction, according to which, if the Parliamentary Group on Convergence i Unió had been a little more finer legally, it could have introduced some safeguards so that such administrative authorization, requested by the workers by the labour authority, would be implemented more rigorously and with objective criteria that would ensure that the assets of these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would also not be violated by reckless initiatives by workers. For example, limiting the discretion of the labour authority by requiring not any kind of report that it considers appropriate, but for small and medium-sized enterprises a technical and economic report on the impact it would have on the viability of the enterprise itself and, above all, on the personal and family assets of the employers of these small and medium-sized enterprises risking such initiatives if the ERE were to be carried out; or, for example, avoiding that this resource raised by workers was an instrument that would be used torticically as a pressure element in small and medium-sized enterprise agreements. These would have been elements that would have perfected the bill. We, as a parliamentary group, are going to support this initiative, this proposal for a law, because we believe that it must be refined if, of course, the People's Group is to take it with its support in consideration. We believe that we must support it, because it is practical, it does not cause public expenditure, and it is also a matter of justice. I do not honestly believe in Mr Coscubala's paradox, and it is that since not all the rights that have been injured in labour reform are recognized, there are no changes, no particular improvements that can be made. We are realistic, but always thinking about the rights of everyone, of workers and of entrepreneurs, because wealth is not generated only by entrepreneurs or only by workers; it is generated by the employment relationship, as I defined it at first. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u40	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barahona.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u41	Thank you, Madam President. In this debate that we are having really interesting, it sets out the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which will support the consideration of this proposal for a law that today presents us Convergence i Unió and which proposes to resolve one of the many and serious effects produced by the labor reform of the People's Party, adopted in this House as Law 3/2012. Mr Campuzano, yours is a limited, very timely and, of course, very limited proposal for what we consider necessary to change with regard to Law 3/2012 and on whose text, in addition, it is necessary to propose nuances, amendments and clarifications if it is actually accepted by the House after today's debate. But, as I say, my group considers it necessary, and that is why we will support it. The important thing is to know and recognize, Mr Campuzano, that the reform of the PP that you supported, by eliminating administrative authorization in collective redundancies and leaving these to the companies alone - we already know that the procedure provides for a period of consultation - has at the same time eliminated the possibility that the ERE would be requested by workers' representatives when the company's situation is in practice unfeasible. We have already talked here, and it is a fact, of companies with losses, with significant wages and social security contributions and lack of activity, in which the employer does nothing to resolve these contracts, leaving the workers consequently in a situation of clear legal helplessness. As might be expected, the elimination of this procedure has caused injury to the workers, and I assure them that it is not an exceptional thing. From its professional approach, different experiences can be expressed here; I can speak of mine in particular, that of a professional of the Public Service of State Employment who precisely in the period from 2012 to 2014 has experienced in the front line the problems and even the dramas resulting from an economic crisis and a crisis in the field of tremendous work. As I say to you, I can assure you that it is no exception - and in this particular case I am talking about my constituency - to the case where there are workers who have not been paying much time, who do not see prospects for the future of their company, who cannot prove the legal situation of unemployment in which they are de facto, and who cannot therefore receive the benefits or the corresponding compensation, even from Fogasa, precisely because they do not have the accreditation of the legal situation of unemployment. It has already been mentioned here, and it is absolutely correct, that at present and with the legislation in force in this type of situation there are two alternatives. On the one hand, individual applications for termination, set out in Article 50.1(b) of the Workers' Statute, whose processing is exasperately slow, and in the meantime, the employment relationship remains alive, but with all the damage we have indicated. The other alternative is to call for the competition of creditors, immediately requesting the judge to initiate an ERE in the competition, which is a real option, but technically very complex because the workers do not always have all the information for it, and this has thus been credited. This situation, created by the amendment of article 51 of the 2012 statute, is one of the contradictions - not the only one, of course - of the reform of the People's Party because, while the workers' representatives can indeed institute an ERE in a competitive process - it is covered by article 64 of the Competition Law - they cannot do so in a non-competitive crisis situation or in which the company has not started the competition, unlike what could have been done previously. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that three years have passed since the adoption of the labour reform imposed by the Government and the People's Group in this House, turning our backs on social dialogue and the social partners, and we already have an assessment based not only on social and constitutional principles, which my group has always done, but also on the consequences of this reform. Many experts and lawyers in our country argue that the main objective of the reform was to pulverize collective bargaining, resulting in the deterioration of basic trade union and labour rights, and we can certainly say that it points out ways. The truth is that for the first time in many years the International Labour Organization has denounced Spain for violating the rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining, contained in the international conventions that have been signed by our country. This is also a reality. The balance of labour reform and the legacy that the Rajoy Government and the People's Group are going to leave us - after this period, if I may, by an exultant majority, I would say that neocon - is obvious. By basing itself on a mantra that has spread widely, which is that our labour regulations with their rigidities are the one that hinders job creation, legal changes have been made that leave a scenario of widespread job insecurity, the elimination of rights and guarantees of workers' protection, the devaluation of employment and wages and, moreover, without any promotion of a better functioning of the labour market. Of course, I will not consciously talk about creating a number of jobs, etc., because the issue is not about figures or data, which in any case remain tremendous, but about what is being talked about is a balance sheet of quality, good employment and of course also how all this sets out a growth that, as it has been a long time, is fair. These effects are enormous in any case for our country as an increasingly unequal distribution of income and a reduction in social welfare, a reduction and an inequality that not only affect us in the present, but also have a marked projection of the future. That is why the Socialist Group considers it essential to change course and to restore, with all its potential, the capacity of social dialogue and collective bargaining, which are key factors in bringing about the balanced changes that our workers and of course our companies need. In that we can work and hope to do it - someone was talking about the next legislature -, we will continue to talk. With regard to the limited and concrete matter proposed to us today by Convergence i Unió, the amendment to Article 51 of the Workers' Statute, it is important to point out that - as has already been said, but from my group we have an interest in putting it into evidence - by eliminating the guarantee that administrative authorization in its broad sense, which facilitated agreements in the field of work, certainly greatly reducing litigation, has generated defencelessness and harm to workers, as has already been pointed out. For today the Convergence i Unito Parliamentary Group, with its initiative, rescues and recognizes once again the guarantee and the effectiveness of administrative authorization in the EREs, whose elimination has supported - it has recognized and is known, on the other hand, in this House - according to the People's Party in 2012. Welcome to the rectification. Today it proposes to the House to resume the procedure regulated in article 51.9 of the Workers' Statute prior to the 2012 reform so that the workers, through their representatives, can also request the initiation of ERE, if rationally it is presumed that the failure of the employer to initiate it could cause them harm of impossible or difficult resolution. Also, of course, that it may be the labor authority that determines and acts precisely for the resolution of the termination file of the contracts that, otherwise - I repeat, experiences we have and not few - remain in the air for too long to harm our workers. Well, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, it is a limited, timely issue. Let us hope that this will be a step in the future in something which the Socialist Group believes to be absolutely fundamental, namely the defence, the strengthening of social rights, and of course also the assessment and consideration of trade unions and their role - fundamental - and, of course, the ability of the labour authority to intervene to ensure the necessary and delicate balance between the entrepreneurial power and the rights of workers. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the People's Group, Mrs Susinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u43	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to this rostrum to fix the position of the People's Parliamentary Group. Indeed, Mr Campuzano, as you have pointed out, Article 51 of the Workers' Statute, in its earlier wording to the Law on Urgent Measures for Labour Market Reform, provided in its ninth paragraph for the possibility for workers through their representatives to apply for the admission of an employment regulation file if rationally it was assumed that the employer's failure to initiate it could cause them harm that was impossible or difficult to repair. This possibility, Mr Campuzano, was linked to an action by the competent labour authority, since this same article, 51.9, provided that the competent labour authority would determine the actions and reports necessary for the resolution of the file. In this regard, Law 3/2012 eliminated the need for prior administrative authorization in such procedures. But do you believe, Mr Campuzano, that with the elimination of this authorization the workers are less protected? The answer is no. The new regulation seeks to enhance the role of the parties involved in the procedure: the role of employers and workers. What the new regulation does is to strengthen the consultation period as a way to achieve a solution that will satisfy the interests of both parties to the greatest extent possible and also, Your Honor, something very important: the labor law protects the workers you mention on your initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, from companies that hold them with important wage debts, that stop paying social security contributions and that do not take the necessary steps to achieve an orderly termination of contracts. These workers are protected. They may request, either through their representatives before the social jurisdiction, the causation of the employment contract when serious breaches of the employer's obligations occur - as has been said this afternoon - including the non-payment of wages. To this end, a procedural modality of an urgent and preferential nature is envisaged, Mr Campuzano - urgent and preferential - which gives workers a judicial response with all guarantees and subsequent access to unemployment benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the labour reform, there have been several and repeated occasions when in this House a request has been made for a total or partial repeal by the different groups. This Member speaking to you and the other members of our parliamentary group are convinced that labour reform has been and is undoubtedly one of the key instruments that have led to the exit from the crisis, the start of economic recovery and job creation. They're not empty words. The data speak and are objective and contrastable data. Yes, I'm going to talk about data, Mrs PSOE's deputy. Between February 2013 and May 2015, the number of unemployed has dropped by 825,191 and over the same period the number of social security members has increased by 1,070,563. In February 2013, employment was destroyed at a rate of 4.42%. Today, employment is created at an annual rate of 3.57%. In February 2013, the number of unemployed grew at an annual rate of 6.96 %. Today it is reduced by 7.82% per year. Then - I repeat - labor reform has been and is a very important tool for the recovery of our economy. These are positive data that translate into economic growth and job creation. I'll give you another very important fact. Thanks to the flexibility of the labour reform introduced by this government and the alternatives to dismissal, the number of workers affected by employment regulation measures during the first quarter of this year stood at 27,604 people, 26,621 fewer workers than in the same period of 2014, a decrease of 49%. Of the total number of workers, 5,564 were the subject of collective redundancies, a decrease of 44%. Mr. Campuzano, this is official data. Last data I give you. In the first three months of this year a total of 2,109 companies adopted employment regulation measures, a decrease of 49.4% over the same period of the previous year. There were 2,457 proceedings, a further 50 % decrease over the same period in 2014. What do I want to tell you with all this data? I would like to say that 92.4% of the proceedings were settled in a consensual manner, there was agreement between the parties, and the judicialisation of collective dismissal represents a minimum percentage of the total collective dismissals. Ladies and gentlemen, the volume of litigation is very low in proportion to the number of collective redundancies that have occurred since the entry into force of the labour reform. For all the above reasons, the People's Parliamentary Group cannot vote in favour of this initiative, because, although we share the same point of arrival, taking into account this proposal for a law would be a step backwards along the path we have been on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Susinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u45	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, that of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the development of a framework for action for the elderly. For her presentation and defence, Mrs Martín Pozo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to rise to this rostrum to defend an initiative of my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, which is presented under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this House and for which we hope to have the support of all those present, as it concerns a collective towards which we all, I understand, show special sensitivity and with which we maintain an unpayable debt, our elders. Ladies and gentlemen, the progressive increase in life expectancy in Spain is one of the major social achievements in our recent history. However, this success carries with it an important challenge: the sustainability of the welfare state, a challenge facing the public authorities and which must be faced with responsibility. For this reason, it is necessary to redefine current policies, combining actions aimed at improving the quality of life of older persons and strengthening the protection of their rights with the guarantee of the welfare State. We are talking about a group that exceeds 8 million people, that is, 18.2 % of the Spanish population, which is expected to double in about 50 years. They are people who contribute their time, knowledge and experience to the development of our country and who have worked very hard to lay the foundations of the society we now enjoy. This is the debt I referred to before, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in the face of that debt, our gratitude, our work and our social policies; policies that are not the exclusive heritage of the left, as some want to make believe; policies that show that for the People's Party the welfare of our elderly and the defence of their rights are a priority, but not just a mouthpiece - let me express it - but with facts. At the first Council of Ministers, President Rajoy's government updated the pensions; it had to do so because they were frozen, ladies and gentlemen. Furthermore, we can say that this was not a point of order, because pensions have been updated year after year and today 4 out of every 10 euros of the State's general budgets are for pensions, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about the implementation of measures aimed at the care of our elderly, we do not only do this about pensions, because 7 out of every 10 euros of the budget of the State Secretariat of Social Services and Equality are committed to the elderly and to dependence. More than EUR 100 million is earmarked for spa and social tourism programmes and there has been a 10% increase in the appropriations for the support of the associations of older persons, not to mention those in a situation of greater vulnerability, which has led to the reduction of the Arope rate in persons over sixty-five years of age by 8.3 points in the last four years. This is a commitment to our elders, as is the fact that we have guaranteed universal and free health care and the sustainability of the care system for dependency. However, we must not only work in the care of our elders, but we must start to value all that human capital as a resource that contributes to the well-being of all. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group encouraged and promoted the elaboration of a Statute for the Major, whose scope, objectives and contents must now be expanded to meet the recommendations of the European Union contained in the 2020 strategy and the new social circumstances, thus leading to a broader and more ambitious project, such as the establishment of a framework for action to ensure that older people receive the best possible treatment, that their individual and social rights are strengthened, that they have earned and participate and that they have an active presence in society. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party Government has adopted in this legislature various social strategies and plans aimed at the care of groups such as disability, children, adolescents, people at risk of social exclusion, etc.; plans and strategies all of them with a sufficient budget, with clear and precise objectives and an eminent cross-cutting character; plans and strategies already under development and whose results are beginning to be seen. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, the actions are aimed at several areas: the Plan for Children and Adolescents; the National Strategic Plan, which has 125 measures and is endowed with more than EUR 5 billion; the families, with more than 225 measures and more than EUR 16 billion; the youth, with the Youth Strategy, with 211 measures and about EUR 3 billion; the disabled, through the Disability Strategy, which consists of 96 measures and is endowed with more than EUR 3 billion; the groups at risk of social exclusion, with 240 measures and with more than EUR 136,000 million, all without forgetting the equal opportunities plans and the strategy for the eradication of gender-based violence. Well, to all these plans it is necessary to add a planning, a framework for action referring to our elders. The development of this framework must involve all the third sector entities working with these people, the various ministerial departments, and especially the elderly through their state council, because we do not want it to be a framework for action that is far from reality or developed from behind our elders. They are the ones who best know their problems and needs and therefore their voice will be fundamental to progress in improving their quality of life. Their participation in society should be addressed in order to avoid isolation, to provide them with opportunities for lifelong learning, to recognize and encourage the very important volunteering they carry out, and to take advantage of all the knowledge and experience they have in the workplace to transfer it to younger generations. Active ageing should be promoted and health promotion, prevention and reduction of the risk of dependence should be promoted and social and health integration should be advanced. And in order to achieve non-discrimination and equal opportunities among our elders, greater attention will have to be paid to situations of greater vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the initiative that we are putting before you today, but I do not want to end my speech without thanking the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the amendment it has tabled, although I anticipate that we cannot accept it, because it would be a return to the socialist policies from which we are still recovering the Spanish with a great deal of effort on the part of all. Your amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is at least surprising, as it is hard to understand that you are now concerned about the updating of pensions when it was you who froze them to our elders. A socialist government has been the only government of democracy that has frozen pensions. That is social policy, leaving the country and the social security system bankrupt. It has had to be a People's Party government that has not only updated them, but has guaranteed them with the reforms carried out. They also ask to return the social competences to the municipal level, to recover the agreed plan. What the PP government has done with the local reform has been to guarantee the financing of social services and, ladies and gentlemen, we must not recover the agreed plan because it never disappeared. They also call for the repeal of Decree 16/2012, of the Copayo, when the only thing he has done is to recognize the right of persons who for decades were excluded from the system, such as the long-term unemployed who exhaust their benefit. Do you really want us to repeal that decree? They request full implementation of the Unit Act. This is something that this government is already doing and in addition to a more efficient way, because the debt of more than 1 billion euros has been paid with the Social Security that you left, 39 million euros have been recovered from duplicate files and dead people and on 1 July the timetable for the implementation of the law ends with the incorporation of the moderate dependents of grade 1. Finally, they refer to ensuring a number of services that are within the competence of the Autonomous Communities and on which we must not enter, since they will, according to their order of priorities and sensitivity, be responsible. In Castile and León, the community where I am from, we have the best social services in the country, not by ourselves but by external control bodies, and these services to which you refer and ask us to guarantee, are guaranteed with a People's Party government. I don't know if those ruled by your party will be able to say the same thing. I shall now conclude, Madam President, by calling for maximum support for this initiative and thus for our elders to be supported, defended, valued and loved by all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Martín Pozo. An amendment has been tabled by the Socialist Group. For your defence, Mrs Corral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is surprised by this non-legislative proposal a few months after the end of this parliamentary term. What older people need and prioritize at this time is not a framework for action, but concrete measures that could start by replenishing what has been cut during this legislature in social policies that directly affect them. Before guiding the public authorities and society, the Spanish Government itself has to set an example and not rely on abstractions and ambiguities that only try to hide the little they have done and what they have done to the elderly during these three and a half years. After so many cuts and so much lack of sensitivity, they should not hide in empty statements and proposals to give an image that does not correspond to the behavior of this legislature. If the People's Parliamentary Group is really interested in promoting an active, healthy, independent and participatory life for older people, it must start by requiring the Government to replenish what it has cut and demolished in social policies affecting older people. If they do so, this parliamentary group will be on their side; we will celebrate it and we will be ready to talk about a framework of action and to agree with both political forces and public administrations, NGOs, affected groups, the State Council for Older Persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed that we are taking part in the cost of the crisis in this cruel way in the generation that has worked and suffered the most to bring us here and to lift up this country. Currently, as a result of the pharmaceutical copayment, pensioners pay an average of four times as much as those who receive a pension. For the first time in the history of democracy, minimum pensions have fallen by 1.5%, according to economic prospecting institutes and Funcas. Ladies and gentlemen, the cuts that the Spanish Government has made in social protection systems have had an adverse impact on older people. Only in the system of care for the unit does the savings recognized by the Government of Spain amount to 1.475 million euros. As a result of these reforms and cuts, the system has collapsed, so that the new dependents cared for are not so under the law, but because of the casualties that occur in this system. As a result, more than 100,000 people died without any rights or benefits. And how sad it is that this tragedy has proved convenient to reduce the waiting list. It should be borne in mind that three out of four dependents are over sixty-five years old, and that 54% of the elderly in dependency are over eighty years old and of course cannot wait. In the social services the budget of 30 million euros was also eliminated for the teleassistance program managed by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which served more than 250,000 users, mostly elderly people living alone and for whom this device was their only security and company. A very painful thing is that the budget of the Concerted Plan for Basic Social Services Benefits was reduced by 67%, a fundamental support for local corporations, a guarantee of proximity policies and home help, and that it has marked the well-being and quality of life of older people where they live. In the amendment proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group - which time does not allow me to detail - all the measures that the People's Parliamentary Group should require the Government to recover the cuts it has made in social policy that directly affect older people are included.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u49	Mrs. Corral, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u50	I'm done, President. If the People's Parliamentary Group is genuinely concerned about the situation of the elderly, I hope that it will accept this amendment and that it will require the Government to comply with the measures proposed here. Otherwise - as we fear - it would be clear that the non-legislative proposal put forward by the People's Group is nothing more than a new attempt at face-to-face makeup for the next general election. If so, a lack of respect for the elderly would be unforgivable. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Corral. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u52	The People's Group does not fail to surprise me with these filling proposals which are absolutely useless and which we are accustomed to every Tuesday. First of all, I am surprised at the content of the proposal concerning the development of a framework for action for the elderly; a proposal of four and a half lines which does not go beyond good intentions and without any concrete results. On the other hand, when do they present this GNP? At the end of the legislature, when the government is already thinking only of two things: to remove the remaining laws in the fridge and how not to lose the next elections. In short, they know perfectly well that this proposal is useless because the Government is not going to do anything. You talk about consensus with representatives of the elderly. I would like to see the faces of these representatives or the faces of older people who have had to endure, for example, the copago or the clippings in dependence. In view of what you have seen in this legislature, I beg you, please, do not waste our time on Tuesday afternoons. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u53	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. By the same group, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, as we have said before, the typical initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group which urges the Government to undertake actions that the Government has already announced it is doing. This is the case with the framework for action for older people which has already been discussed on several occasions and which Minister Alonso already advanced in the month of March, which was being completed. We, ladies and gentlemen, agree to promote an active, healthy, independent and participatory life for the elderly, but it seems to us a real irony that it is the People's Parliamentary Group, after all the policies it has carried out in these years, that proposes it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of pensions, for example, the cut in income received by the majority of pensioners is one of the most serious problems facing older people. It is true that the pension reform has not been initiated by the current Government, but it is also true that the regulatory changes introduced have eroded the purchasing power of pensioners, who are becoming increasingly impoverished, in a context in which older persons are also responsible for providing financial assistance to their children or grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, the INE's own data reveal that there are more than 300,000 families in the Spanish State who have as their only income the pensions of the elderly. Addressing the focus of social policies to improve this situation would undoubtedly promote a healthy and independent life for older persons, as would the reinforcement in the State General Budgets of the Unit Act, which affects older persons by a higher percentage. In recent years, the People's Party has made billion-dollar cuts in this area and revised the evaluation criteria, making them significantly tougher. The reduction in public funding to users has increased the co-payments by almost 70%, between 2009 and 2013 and more than 100,000 dependents have died since 2012 waiting for the benefit already recognized by the State. They have established in the health field co-sponsors and pharmacists who have assumed that there are elderly people who do not take their treatment regularly or simply do not take it. Ladies and gentlemen, they have carried out a reform of the local administration that keeps social services more and more away from citizens and, above all, from the most vulnerable, such as the elderly. Finally, many basic services, such as electricity, have increased sharply, far above the CPI, and bank scams that have occurred with impunity in recent years have affected many older people. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, develop the framework for action for the elderly, but start the house on the ground and implement a genuine social policy that will alleviate the situation of social exclusion that thousands of older people are experiencing and, above all, reflect it in the General Budgets of the State. Everything else is a toast to the sun. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. We have moved on to the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. What do we talk about in Spain when we talk about older people? We do not refer to persons over eighty or ninety years of age in a situation of dependency. In Spain, more than 8.5 million people are over sixty-five years old and only a small percentage are dependent. We are one of the oldest countries in the world and the data for 2050 do not improve this picture. All this indicates that it is urgent - it has been for years now - to adopt policies of health care, the economy, well-being, employment and everything that affects this large and growing group. This would also help to delay situations of dependency in many cases. It seems that the Government, suddenly and close to the end of the legislature, has a great interest in presenting this framework of action for the elderly. Let us remember, in case of chance, that the origin is not exclusive to Spain. In fact, the Council of the European Union launched a couple of years ago, when there were no general elections in sight, a document that has been analysed in different countries to unify criteria for defining policies in this regard, all marked by the Europe 2020 strategy. Therefore, when we talk about paying attention to the elderly, we talk about doing so in matters such as employment, lifelong learning, social security systems and pensions, and of course, but not only health care. If we take this into account, as we are discussing here today, the opinion of the UPyD Parliamentary Group is that this framework of action must not only be analysed with the representatives of the elderly or at least not only with the representatives of the major confederations that are at present, which are not always very representative; it must also have professional associations, such as that of Geriatrics and Gerontology, with entities that provide employment to those over forty-five years of age, with groups of independent elders and with the media. If this discussion is left alone with the contribution of those already known, it may be positive but it will have less silence than it could achieve. We should not forget, on the other hand, that what is needed is to reorganize the health system to care for the chronic patient, responding to the needs of this group, both in health and in dependence. Far from what the People's Group spokesman put forward in the explanatory statement, the Government makes clear its priorities for the elderly - Imserso's programmes - and claims that it has ensured and guaranteed the sustainability of pensions just a few days after Funcas, for example, said that pensions will lose purchasing power this 2015 or a month after the Towers Watson consultant estimated that the reserve fund will end in nine years if the unemployment stands at 15%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the proposal that you are bringing us here today is designed for the gallery, it has no budgetary accompaniment, without which talking about a framework of action is like talking about the sex of angels, and it only takes into account a very specific part of the representatives of the elderly. Finally, listening to his speech, he gives the feeling that more than worrying about older people worry about maintaining a concrete electoral group with half-truths or poorly distributed crumbs of bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Of course, UPyD is in favour of all the policies that really aim to improve the quality of life of older people in our country, but in this case we need the People's Group to clarify the points on which we have enough doubts, so that we can decide the meaning of our vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious that when initiatives are presented without content, one resorts to defend them to the one and you, more. It's curious. But I must also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that when I saw this initiative, it was as if I was going through a chill in my back, not because of what it says in itself, because it does not say anything, but because of what it does not say or we understand what it does not say. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you - as everyone knows - are quite similar to what emanates from the International Monetary Fund and it is suspicious that this initiative comes after the document that this entity has prepared, which contains a series of recommendations on life expectancy, recommendations that are more than worrying and that I will now point out to you. The IMF welcomes - as you have done - the improvement of individual well-being and, consequently, of life expectancy, but - rapidly emerges the buts - states that the improvement of life expectancy entails financial costs for governments through staff retirement plans and social security systems, and of course also for companies with social pension schemes, for insurance companies that sell living income and, even more so, for those individuals who lack guaranteed retirement benefits. It therefore considers that the risk of longevity is an issue to be taken into account in view of its financial impact and that measures should be taken to mitigate the impact. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if there is anything we are used to in this country, it is that you take action against everything that can entail more financial expenditure, more economic expenditure. The IMF says that it is necessary to combine the increase in retirement age - compulsory or voluntary - and contributions to retirement plans with cuts in future benefits. Does that ring a bell? Does that ring a bell? I think so. In a country impoverished by the financial crisis and social cuts; in a country with 4 million unemployed and unemployed, many of whom will not find work again because they are over forty-five years old; in a country where more than one million households do not receive any wages, where 23% of children are on the poverty line, where there are the poorest with contracts and where precariousness has been reinforced, only now is the International Monetary Fund - a nest of vultures, as we all know - and forces you - and therefore us - to take action against those who claim to defend and who we do defend, who are the elderly, their retirements and the rest of the protections that correspond to them. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to have a decent old age if you do not have resources, and you do not put resources in order to have that worthy old age, do not put them; indeed, you cut them by taking advantage of what the International Monetary Fund says and before it says so. So don't tell us stories, Charles Dickens told us, and believe me, we don't want to go back to the Victorian era, at the time of Mr Dickens, nor do we want to see a society in those conditions in this country where we say we are moving forward. We used to talk about worthy death and we want a worthy death. We do not want for the elderly a death by starvation, by many framework programs that you present to us, and it will be a death by starvation if you follow those policies of cuts for the elderly and citizenship. In the explanatory statement you say: The progressive increase in life expectancy in our country represents an important present and future challenge for the sustainability of social services. You say that; you say it in social services, you say it in health care, you say it in all the benefits that affect all citizens and, especially, the most vulnerable, in this case the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not propose any amendments. We are not going to table any amendments, because with these kinds of initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u59	Mrs. García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u60	With these kinds of initiatives, the only thing they intend to do is try to deceive the outsiders, because the insiders can no longer deceive us, and I think the outsiders, for the results we are seeing, neither. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u61	Thank you, Mrs. García Álvarez. Catalan Group, Mr Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u62	Thank you, Madam President. We really find it difficult to understand what the People's Group's claim is by presenting this initiative. The text we are proposing to vote on literally speaks of a framework for action for the elderly, agreed with the representatives of the elderly in Spain, in order to guide the actions of the public authorities and society as a whole, aimed at promoting, for the elderly, an active, healthy, independent and participatory life, as well as promoting equal opportunities and non-discrimination. It is signed in May 2015, when there are weeks left for this Congress and the Government, and it also contains no specific or specific measures. It is absurd, because in what we have been debating in the legislature, both in the Senate and in Congress, non-law proposals of the People's Party in a similar direction, even the drafting of the Statute of the Major has come to pass, with a very similar wording, on the proposal of the People's Group. The legislature and the status of the major, which my group did not know exactly what it meant, will not have been adopted. Now they no longer tell us about the status of the major, but they tell us about that framework of action so broad and so generic. All this contrasts, in parallel, with something that is real and concrete, such as the competences that depend on the central government and that have been negative for the elderly. The change in the annual rate of pension revaluation, which in practice amounts to a quasi-freezing of pensions, has been negative for older people. Moreover, as Funcas announces, the way is opened for pensioners to lose purchasing power and become poorer in the coming times. Similarly, in a country such as Catalonia - a Catalan deputy speaks to her - where inflation tends to be higher than in Spain as a whole, this reform approved by the People's Party will lead to greater impoverishment for Catalan pensioners. In the policy of dependency care, which is also within the competence of the central Government, the General Government of the State has withdrawn from the bulk of the funding of the dependency care system and has discharged responsibilities in the autonomous communities and in the elderly and their families, drowning, on the one hand, the financial capacity of the autonomous communities and, on the other, increasing the co-sponsorship efforts of citizens to benefit from dependency. Pensions and dependency are the responsibility of the central Government, the competence of the General Administration of the State, policies that have been implemented by the People's Party. They are not empty words, they are not generic and indeterminate mandates from Congress to the government, but they are real decisions that depend on the majority that you make up. Surely, it would have been better for older persons to submit a bill to the Social Security Amendment Chamber to ensure that pensions evolved according to the consumer price index. The main economic risk a pensioner has is the evolution of inflation. In a low inflation scenario, that risk does not exist, but in a normal inflation scenario of 2% or 3%, the pension reform that you approved will impoverish our pensioners. Funcas, which is not an institute, since economic orthodoxy, whose credibility can be doubted, is already announcing that pensioners are going to lose purchasing power, that pensioners are going to be poorer. Today my group would be excited to accompany you if this initiative were to talk about specific issues, issues that depend on you, but with such a vague, generic approach, I have no doubt that well-intentioned by the spokesman for the majority group, you cannot count on our support, but you must count on our rejection. If I may make the suggestion, spend the cartridges you have in this plenary to make us proposals that are substantive, that are interesting, that can be executed during the scarce three months of life that are left to this legislature. You know as well as I do that this non-law proposition will die this afternoon in this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u63	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Martín Pozo, are you saying that you do not accept the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u64	Madam President, we do not admit it. The vote will therefore be taken on its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Martín Pozo. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON RESTRICTIONS IN THE DISPOSAL OF VACUNES. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 162/000977]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u66	We move on to the following non-legislative proposal, in this case the Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union, on restrictions on the dispensation of vaccines. For your presentation and defence, Mrs Tarruella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time - but I would like it to be the last time - that we have to debate and that we have to talk in this plenary about vaccines. Since Convergence i Unió we have presented written questions, oral question in plenary, a non-legislative proposal in the Commission, an inquiry to the then minister, Mrs Mato, with the corresponding motion over the last two years, and we have always received a no to our proposals. Now there has been a change of team in the ministry and we hope that also a change of position in this regard. We're all very hopeful about it. In June 2014 we also introduced and recorded this non-law proposal that we are now going to discuss, and over time but, above all, due to the latest developments related to the issue of vaccines today, we have also made a self-amendment to this non-law proposal. [[The Lord]] I'm not gonna start explaining everything about chickenpox here. We have talked about this so many times that I do not think there are any of your ladies and gentlemen who are not aware of it. The Spanish Medicines Agency made a unilateral decision and despite all the initiatives we have brought here, they never gave us a clear explanation why, without anything happening with the vaccine, without absolutely nothing going on in scientific terms that endorsed this withdrawal from the pharmacy offices, it was withdrawn and, in addition, it was included in the vaccination calendar for children twelve years old who had not passed it. We all know that chickenpox is benign in 85% of cases and that if it is benign, pass the immune chickenpox. But what about that 15% of chickenpox cases where there are complications, some of them serious, and I would say that very serious? Of course, pediatricians have always recommended, and have continued to recommend, that chickenpox vaccine be placed in the first year of life, starting at twelve months, and that a second dose of recall be given at two or three years. Now, as we have said, it seems that with the new gear shift, the ministry's position on chickenpox vaccine has also changed. Yesterday, we attended a breakfast - and of the people who were there there there are a few - in which the minister made a great defense of the vaccines. The minister also committed last week to include chickenpox vaccine in the early stages of the common vaccination schedule. We think it's fantastic. There are amendments from the People's Party which are in this direction. We welcome and welcome this, but we believe that we should go a little further. Because what about the children who are two or three years old today and who have not been able to immunize themselves because their parents have not been able to buy the vaccine at the pharmacies on the recommendation of their pediatricians because they did not have it? Those who have had luck and been able to buy it in a nearby country, such as Andorra, France or Portugal, have been able to vaccinate their children. But those who do not, those two- and three-year-olds will still remain - even if included in the vaccination schedule, if included only at twelve months - up to twelve years within an age band that would not be vaccinated. That is why in the non-legislative proposal we maintain this first point, concerning that all vaccines recommended by the European Medicines Agency and sold in the pharmacies of the countries of our environment, can also be sold in the Spanish pharmacies. The other two points we add in our own amendment are aimed at reviewing and extending the common schedule of vaccinations. We are not talking about chickenpox or meningococcus, because we leave it to the interterritorial council, the government or the corresponding government to establish the vaccines that we should include in the common vaccination schedule. As long as it is checked, it is extended and recorded, for us it is fine. We have added another point where I think we will agree with the whole House, which is raising awareness of the importance of vaccination. We must give the highest social value to vaccines, something that has been heard as active and passive these days. Yesterday, the minister, in his great speech in favor of vaccines, said that the vaccine is the best prevention. We must find a way to explain the qualities of vaccination and its social value. We therefore propose that, in agreement with the Autonomous Communities, awareness-raising campaigns be carried out in this regard aimed at the entire population so that there is no parent who stops giving their children the vaccines included in the vaccination schedule, and I would add the vaccines recommended by their pediatricians for their children. Yesterday, the minister said that the vaccine is for the benefit of the child and that it is the responsibility of the parents to comply with this timetable and not of the institutions. I completely agree, but what happens when pediatricians recommend some vaccines, parents want access to them, and from the Administration we don't let them have access to them in pharmacies? Then perhaps the responsibility would be for the others. There is a debate that we do not want to open here but I do want to comment, and it is whether or not vaccines are compulsory. In our group we are not in favour of the obligation, but yes, and much, of pedagogy and awareness of vaccines. It is not the same that a person does not want to be vaccinated from tetanus, a case in which he or she harms himself or herself, that parents decide not to vaccinate the children of an infectious disease that infects the rest of the children around them. We believe it is very important that we explain this and that we can move forward in this direction. I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group for their amendments, which I believe enrich the text considerably. In some cases they come to say the same thing, although in other words, and in others they complement what we want to say in this non-law proposal on vaccines and whose processing we would like it to be possible. Mr President, I announce that we are working on a transactional that we would very much like to be able to support so that this non-legislative proposal would come forward, if possible, unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. For the defence of the amendments referred to by Mrs Tarruella, first of all by the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by wishing for the recovery of the child who is admitted for a case of diphtheria and by sending a strong hug to his parents. Secondly, I want to state - because I always do - that I have no conflicts of interest, I have exclusivity in my work as a Member, I have no office and I do not have to sell any books on vaccines. Vaccines prevent diseases - I think we all have it very clear - some of which are very serious and have allowed the eradication of others such as smallpox. In medicine the zero risk does not exist but we have to make it clear that the recommended vaccines are safe and effective, and should be said very often. For example, measles, according to all studies, has a risk of complication of one by one million, but passing the disease has a risk of complications of one per thousand, that is, a thousand times the risk when passing the disease. There are many efforts made by health professionals and we have to recognize them here; family doctors, pediatricians and especially nurses, who are always waiting to get very high percentages of intake for vaccines, because this also achieves the effect of the herd, that is, children who are not vaccinated are also protected by the effect of a larger vaccinated group. With this they manage to avoid outbreaks and collaborate in reducing infant mortality. It is very important that the ministry should work to establish the basic strategic lines of vaccination and to adapt the recommendations to the new scientific evidence available, always maintaining equity in the access and sustainability of public vaccination services, and relying previously on the autonomous communities. By the way, the minister should congratulate the communities that do more with less and not attack them, as he does continuously with Andalusia. [[Applauds]] We have tabled amendments to try to improve this proposal, as we believe that there is a great diagnosis in the current debate on vaccines: errors in communication. There is a lack of public information explaining the scientific evidence on which the recommendations are based and above all the decisions and changes in criteria. There is a lack of information that is transmitted clearly and truthfully, adapted to generate tranquility and confidence in professionals and the whole population in general. Parents should have no doubt that the recommended vaccines are safe, but they do. And, aware of this, the EU Health Ministers, in December 2014, asked countries to take measures to reverse the scepticism between citizens regarding vaccines and invited Member States to inform the population to increase their confidence in vaccination programmes. And what has our government done? Nothing. We know that if you don't report, others do it for you and that's what's happening. As a professional interested in seeking information - like other professionals - I went to the ministry page to find out about vaccines and I saw that there is currently no clear and up-to-date information, there is only one brief note about the hospital use of chickenpox vaccine. The ministry page is found as I teach you,, a very clear demonstration of how the ministry is in relation to vaccines: in works and in repair. [[Show a role]] If you are a citizen who seeks information from official sources and goes to the ministry, you will find the official calendars and little more. Does the public media cooperate in this communication? Quite the opposite. A few days ago in a Commission I denounced the example of a program, For All The 2, in which they interviewed a journalist and writer considering him as an expert in vaccines and, surprisingly, again appeared as an expert on the Spanish Television Television Television questioning the diphtheria vaccine, when the case of the child of Olot was already known. I believe that in order to hide the errors in the approach to public health the minister is announcing daily changes in relation to varicella and meningococcal vaccines. Why is it now relying on expert reports that were not considered before? In the official media, nothing has been reported and professionals have not been informed, either. And we wonder what epidemiological changes have occurred recently in the past month. At what meeting of the vaccine group has this modification been addressed? We believe that vaccines are now used only for electoral reasons and every day promises of change are made that have not been spoken to at all with the autonomous communities but that we hope that after that they will not remain in anything, as is happening with others, for example, with the attention of immigrants in an irregular administrative situation. We ask that this situation of uncontrollability be brought to an end, that all changes in criteria be agreed with the autonomous communities, that training and communication plans be proposed, that serious awareness-raising campaigns bring peace to professionals and parents, and that decisions will be the best for the health of their children. That is why we have proposed these amendments which are complementary and which we hope will be adopted. Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Moya. For the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Mingo has the floor to table his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u71	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Tarruella for the opportunity she offers this House to talk about vaccines. Although the initial position of the non-legislative proposal was rather lacking, if I may say so, the self-amendment it has made - and I congratulate it on that - completes the position, much more reasonable, in the field of vaccines. We have tabled an amendment that has a criterion and a hope of being transactional, where we deal with the most important aspects of vaccines for society. We do this on the basis of three basic criteria. The first is that rarely in the medical world there has been as much scientific advancement as that represented by vaccines for disease prevention, to reduce morbidity and mortality, and for the health gains of all citizens. We have a calendar that we have all given ourselves, which is free, voluntary, unlike other countries where it is compulsory, because I understand - as I think you will all share, because we have already done in the General Health Law and in the Patient's Autonomy Law - that it must be voluntary, because the important thing is to convince and inform, and therefore we have 97% vaccination monitoring in our country, one of the highest figures in the world. However, it is not bad that the ministry and the autonomous communities continue to exert all their influence to inform the population on a regular and daily basis of the magnificent benefit of vaccines to society at large. Second idea. We have the best vaccine calendar in the world. We vaccinated in a universal, free way, with a comprehensive program and above all the result of the agreement between the Ministry of Health and all the autonomous communities in February 2013, when he was running the Doña Ana Mato ministry. That is the first global agreement and we have to be proud of it. In addition, vaccines are incorporated thanks to the scientific criteria of the societies of epidemiology and vaccination, and to the prior agreement of the Public Health Commission, as you know. It is also dynamic because it is constantly reviewed, and a good example of this, as you know, is that in the year 2014 two decisions were made unanimously in the interterritorial council: to modify the vaccination of papilloma in girls to start with her at the age of twelve instead of fourteen and to incorporate the pneumococcal vaccine, which will be implemented in 2016. The second idea, therefore, is that we have a good model that we must retain. Third and final idea. You know that the cost-effectiveness data for vaccines depend fundamentally and in many cases on the epidemiological situation of each disease at a given time. Therefore, the opinion of the technicians and experts is changed over time and the latest advances made by scientific societies and experts in vaccine and epidemiology have advised that there should be new developments in the vaccine schedule. For this reason, the minister has taken up this idea and has already announced his intention to propose to the interterritorial council the inclusion of varicella vaccine in the children's vaccination calendar and also incorporate the dispensation of meningococcal B vaccine in the pharmacies, as Mrs Tarruella has been demanding for many years. I conclude by thanking Mrs Fernández for her speech and encouraging her to make a compromise amendment among all of us. This is a great time in this House to give the real value of the vaccine to medicine, prevention and Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Mingo. Mrs Pérez has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u73	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying that the Galego Nationalist Block will support this non-legislative proposal from the Catalan Parliamentary Group. In fact, in this same sense, we have put forward various initiatives in this House, in the Commission specifically, with the aim of the government listening to the scientific community, to pediatricians and to parents, who are facing a fear and a situation that the administration has not just addressed, and never better said. Both the case of meningococcal B vaccine and that of chickenpox - with restriction to the hospital field in the first case and lack of supply and therefore restriction of their sale in pharmacies in the second - have caused in different territories, as in Galicia or Catalonia, the parents have been forced to travel to neighbouring countries in order to be able to acquire them. This implies, inter alia, that children or persons with financial means to travel to another country and acquire the prescribed vaccine could be vaccinated. The ministry is the competent administration to include vaccines in the official calendar and the alarm created has taken the Galician Parliament very recently to urge the Xunta to make this request to the ministry to reconsider the current situation, where the meningococcal B vaccine can only be distributed in hospitals. We are talking about a vaccine that is effective against a disease, meningitis B, which already reaches 80% of the total cases of meningitis. In this case, we understand that as long as the essentials are not done, as they are included in the vaccination schedule, the Government should release their sale in pharmacies, since their exclusively hospital use is a unilateral decision of the Spanish Medicines Agency that has evidenced the great social unrest and health professionals. In the case of chickenpox, the blocking of the sale in Varivax pharmacies, the vaccine authorized in the State for sale, has also led to a flood of criticism and has created great concern about the possibility of increasing cases of chickenpox. Indeed, a number of studies have shown a significant increase in cases. The Spanish Pharmaceutical Business Federation considers, for example, that there is a direct link between the increase in cases and the lack of vaccination resulting from supply restrictions. Many autonomous communities included chickenpox vaccine in their vaccination schedule between 2006 and 2008, applying it between 12 and 15 months of age. In other autonomous communities that did not include it in their official calendar, it could be purchased at pharmacies. There have been, ladies and gentlemen, arguments for and against vaccines and all arguments can be heard and evaluated, but the point is that if the ministry has any doubts about the vaccine, some doubts with a non-economic health basis, it should take into account all the consequences arising from the hospital-only use of certain vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia together with Aragón are the autonomous communities with the most cases of chickenpox and, with data from the end of 2014, are the two territories where the disease increased the most: 66% in particular in our autonomous community. The only vaccine that would prevent contagion stopped being marketed in pharmacies two years ago and, recently, more than 700 health professionals from all over the State asked the ministry to include chickenpox vaccine in two doses at 12 months and one between 2 and 3 years. Paediatricians stress the importance of including the vaccine at an early age in the schedule to avoid an increase in cases. As the spokesperson for the Catalan Parliamentary Group has said, the Minister of Health has made statements that may indicate that the unlocking requested by professionals can occur. We hope that this will be the case, that the Government will listen to health professionals and address the concerns of parents and, therefore, release the sale of the vaccine in pharmacies. We also agree that the common schedule of vaccination for children should be reviewed and extended in order to avoid diseases and deaths, but also, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid something that is currently occurring, which is inequality. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak very briefly from the seat to say that, first of all, we agree with the proposal made by the partner of Convergence and Union. We have a problem to solve, of course, because this is not the first time this situation has been transmitted to us in this House, as Mrs Tarruella has said. As far as we are concerned, the proposal that Convergència i Unió brings is a relevant issue because there is a problem, and it is that there are no longer certain vaccines, some parents wanted to continue to have the possibility of acquiring them and could not. This social and health situation must be answered. Whatever the case, a serious response must be given to this situation of vaccines; it cannot be improvised and, suddenly, at the last moment, let go, as the minister has done, for example, something new without having had the authorities of the autonomous communities, which are the competent ones, and without telling how this new situation is going to be provided financially. Therefore, as far as possible changes can and should not be improvised. Both my group and the health authorities - including those of the Basque Government - think that the vaccination schedules work, that the professionals do them and that they are well done, and that decisions are made on the basis of health and scientific rigour, so when they decide, they are decided on something. Some of the above want, or consider it appropriate, that some vaccines that are not included in the schedule be provided, provided that they are authorized and legislated - that pharmacies should have that stock - if parents - even if they are not within the capacity of the health system to cover it financially - are self-sufficient and able to pay for them. What you can't do is improvise, as I said before. The decisions that have been taken, as regards new incorporations in vaccination schedules or modifications, have always been, and I hope that this will continue, for scientific and health reasons, never for economic reasons. An economic reasoning would be detrimental in deciding whether or not vaccines should be included in the schedule. Finally, in the global concept and given that the issue of the vaccine gives for a long time - today the partner of CiU has brought a specific problem and wanted to talk about it, but we can talk about vaccination in general and we talk about chickenpox and meningococcal and pneumococcal, etc., and new vaccinations; but I think that the issue was concrete - it has also arisen because we have a concrete crisis of an absence of vaccination of certain people in a specific place, as Councillor Jon Darpón said, it must not be imposed, it must be convinced - I think Mario Mingo has also said the same words - and so far the conviction has worked almost in the majority, though not in all, and in that minimum band of non-conviction there has arisen a serious contagion in Catalonia. Having said that, there are issues that cannot and should not be played with. And, as Mrs. Tarruella said, when you want to harm yourself, it is your problem; but when your negligence or conviction harms others, certain prophylactic measures must be taken. I don't know which ones. We therefore agree with the proposal put forward by Convergence i Unite and will support it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u77	Thank you, President. The Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy also thanks the spokesperson for Convergence i Unió, Mrs Tarruella, for presenting this initiative and for the opportunity she has given us to participate and to attend this debate. I very, very much agree with the speech that she herself has made and I also very much agree with the speech that I have just heard from my colleague, Mr Agirretxea. It is about trying to convince, to convince people, the parents of children to be vaccinated. But it is also a matter of bearing in mind that sometimes a personal decision, in particular, affects other people who are linked by the contagion - as has been said here - by a decision that affects not only the person making the decision, but the people in their environment. And that must also be taken into account when making decisions. We must make these decisions thinking of the interest in health, from scientific criteria and from mere and exclusively scientific indications, never from indications or from economic criteria. As the spokesman for the People's Group has said, we have a good model, but we do not have the best model in the world. Otherwise, we would not be talking about him, we would not be raising some of the problems that have arisen and the Ministry of Health would not be improvising and permanently modifying the model itself. We have a good model, a dynamic model - like everyone else, by the way, in this matter - but it is a model that we need to improve. Our group naturally agrees, as could not be less, with the initiative put forward by Mrs Tarruella in particular. What is less than ensuring that all vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency are delivered at the pharmacy offices. It seems to me that it is such a reasonable request, so much of common sense and so much of minimums, that anyone who heard the debate could ask himself, but is that not guaranteed now? Indeed, it is not guaranteed now, and what Mrs Tarruella is asking us today is, from our point of view, a question of minimums: everything that is authorized by the European Medicines Agency must normally be obtained in a pharmacy office, and not only dispensed in hospitals. It was also raised during the debate, although the proposing group's approach was so narrow, the problem we have at the moment, and specific cases of pneumococcus and chickenpox have been mentioned. Specific cases which oblige us to take decisions or to ask the Government to be reviewed in the area of competences which are shared in this area and which are also of the Autonomous Communities, the decisions which have been taken so far. In our opinion - we have explained it more often in this forum - one of the main structural problems that health has in Spain is that in our country there is no single health system that guarantees adequate health care to citizens outside the autonomous community in which they live. Several parliamentarians have highlighted the issue of equality. The spokesman for the Galego Nationalist Group stressed this in his speech; he raised the issue from the perspective that we must guarantee equality, and he put it at the beginning of the afternoon by the Socialist Group with another bill that had to do not with the matter of vaccines but with another health matter - although not specifically, but we were talking about what we do not want to call euthanasia but we were talking about euthanasia, again equality -. To resolve the issue of equality, in our view, it must be borne in mind that unequal access to health services and benefits becomes even more evident when we talk about such basic elements as the vaccination schedule. There are no seventeen different systems in the vaccination calendar - you know - but in Spain there are nineteen vaccination calendars based on the contents and chronologies that each of them collect. They create problems for parents and, therefore, for children, when they move from one autonomous community to another. In one autonomous community it is recommended, in another it is even mandatory and sometimes it does not even match the age at which it is recommended to put that vaccine. This creates a huge health problem and a huge problem of lack of guidance and safety for parents. With the aim of unifying the vaccination schedule in our country, in 2011 it was launched through various recommendations of the Spanish Association of Vaccines and the Spanish Association of Pediatrics a document that collected a whole series of arguments and justifications that supported the creation of a single vaccination schedule - this one that we are talking about on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy -. As a result of that pressure, that timetable was put in place, but - you know it well, the spokesman for the People's Group has quoted it in a light way or passing over - when that timetable, which had to be in force at the beginning of 2014, was launched - without that being the case - the single vaccination schedule was described by the professionals as very basic, retrograde in some cases with respect to the vaccination schedules already in place in different autonomous communities. That was a qualification of the professionals themselves. For example, there was talk of the reversal of this common timetable because some autonomous communities were asked to withdraw vaccines such as pneumococcus or chickenpox that they themselves had included in their schedules. You will also remember and remember the dramatic consequences of the withdrawal of these vaccines; consequences that have generated a lot of disruption, a lot of insecurity and in some cases unfortunately deaths. To draw up a common timetable for the vaccination of children of maximums that guarantees equality of treatment...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u78	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u79	... in the access to all citizens - term -, regardless of the autonomous community in which they reside is an outstanding subject in this area. We must insist on this, and we must ensure health safety and equality for all Spaniards. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mrs Castaño has the floor for the Plural Left Group, and I congratulate her on her willingness to speak on the day she becomes a Member.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning my parliamentary activity today by setting out the position of my group, the Plural Left, with regard to the proposal by the Convergence and Union Group that, in accordance with Community legislation and without any restrictions, the supply of vaccines authorized by the European Medicines Agency should be guaranteed in pharmacy offices. The text accompanying and justifying the proposal contains a number of legal arguments in which we are not going to enter, since we believe that if the Spanish legislation is found to be in breach of European law, the courts must be heard in order to resolve the matter. Instead, we will enter the proposition itself. As stated above, all vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency are required to be dispensed at the pharmacy offices. In a quick reading this request could seem to us to be most harmless and even some could invoke the sacrosanct freedom of the citizens, that is of those citizens who have the precise economic resources; freedom to acquire in the market everything that they want or that has been approved by some particular authority. Citizens, by the way, who have no expertise, are often informed by sources of dubious credibility and conditioned by seductive messages that convey to them that there are a whole series of diseases that would easily be avoided with the administration of one or other vaccine; they are citizens who are disoriented in the debates about the goodness or threats of these vaccines. In our view, this proposal is intended to influence the Spanish Government politically so that it can deepen the practice of reducing medicines to mere commodities. There is pressure on a Government that on this occasion had the boldness to treat the issue of vaccines as a matter of public health and not as a purely commercial matter. And, objective achieved, since only a few days ago the Minister of Health, taking advantage of a moment of special social sensitivity and without providing technical criteria justifying the sudden change in the policy of his ministry, has announced that he has proposed to include chickenpox vaccine again in the official vaccination calendar of pediatric age and that the vaccine of meningitis B will spend in a matter of months to be sold freely in pharmacies. Without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, vaccines have had an extraordinary and positive impact on people's health and are one of the health measures that have produced the greatest benefit and continue to produce humanity, as they prevent diseases that previously caused serious epidemics, deaths and sequelae. Until recently, the vaccine was synonymous with health, a disease-free future and a health guarantee. But, unfortunately, vaccines are experiencing an unprecedented crisis, as the pressure of the commercial houses of some scientific associations, with excessive financial dependence on those and on professional and institutional groups - we could point out the case of the World Health Organization - have managed to take advantage of the prestige of the term vaccine to do extraordinary business with little or no scientific foundation. Thus, vaccines have been introduced into the market and vaccine schedules of the National Health System, which, at least, should have waited for us to have greater knowledge of their performance because of their more than dubious effectiveness, uncertain risk and high cost. In the Plural Left we will never agree to this reduction of the drug to mere merchandise, because such reduction we consider irresponsible and the result of a greed without limits; nor will we accept the pressures of the pharmaceutical lobbyists interested in conditioning public health policies in their own interest. From our group, we will always put the interests of citizens before these pressures, and we will defend people's health against aggressive drug promotion strategies. For all that here exposed and because we stand alongside public health and the interests of the citizenry, in the face of the desire of the pharmaceutical industry to sell more and more products every day, we will vote against the proposal presented. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castaño. Mrs Tarruella, although you have already stated this, I ask you whether there is a compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u83	Yes, Mr President, there is a compromise amendment between the Group of the European People's Party and our group. Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u84	Mrs Tarruella, I call you again to defend the motion of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the sustainability and financing of the health system. [[Convergence and Union]] You have the floor, Mrs Tarruella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of Convergence i Union I went up to defend the motion resulting from questioning on the sustainability and financing of the health system. Last week we had the debate on this issue of financing with the minister and, for our part, it was very well explained and clear the problem that all the autonomous communities have when it comes to financing themselves. There is a structural deficit, an undervalued deficit since the start of transfers to the autonomous communities. We also said that Catalonia, which was the first autonomous community to obtain its transfers, is dragging the investments it has made in its hospitals, contrary to what happens to other autonomous communities that received its competences last 2002 and that received them a day, we could say. By the way, in some of these hospitals the autonomous communities continue to invest; for example, Catalonia continues to enrich this heritage, but the Generalitat still does not hold the hospitals, because we have not managed to transfer the buildings, which continue to be of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. Today we bring here this motion containing a number of points, all consistent with what we defended last week during the inquiry. We call for sufficient funding for the autonomous communities to be able to develop their competences in the field of health services, especially by reviewing the financing of these services. It is clear that the health sector accounts for more than one third of the autonomous budgets of the vast majority of the autonomous communities. In addition, the central Government made a number of cuts in the State General Budgets that affected a number of items that financed strategies, rare diseases, the fight against AIDS, and all these items disappeared from the State General Budgets. The system is that the autonomous communities have continued to endure as they could and have had to continue with their corresponding rebates, but facing everything that was already under way. That is why we call for access to health services for the entire population to be ensured, in accordance with the principle of universal coverage, with particular regard to socially more fragile groups in the face of the current economic crisis. I would like to remind the People's Group, ladies and gentlemen, that this is one of the points - the main one - that was approved in the subcommittee for the sustainability of the health system that we agreed between the People's Group - with the then spokesman and today's Secretary General - the Basque Nationalist Party and our parliamentary group: the universality of health for the population. It was agreed, it was accepted and we have to bring it to the vote today because absolutely nothing has been done about that pact today. We also want to create a specific, budgeted health fund for all the pharmacotherapeutic innovations approved by the Ministry and included in the catalogue of publicly funded medicines. I already know that the autonomous communities are involved in the pricing model, but that is useless if the ministry - although the prices are approved with the participation of two autonomous communities - does not then collect the corresponding item that helps to pay this funding. Because those who buy and pay are the autonomous communities and, if they are not given a fund to help these new incorporations, they are more elements that are added to the service portfolio. When a service is added, that common portfolio of services would have to be accompanied - if that institutional loyalty is to be fulfilled - by that item so that the new one that is incorporated can be paid. We also call for the payment of the existing debt by the Ministry of Health and Social Services to the Autonomous Communities under the Fund for the Rational Use of the Drug. Some people have asked me what that is. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fund through which the ministry distributed to the autonomous communities by law what was collected from the pharmaceutical industry. But 2013 he skipped it, didn't give it, didn't hand it over and never heard from him again. He's complaining, but that year he's missing. Therefore, this amount is owed to the autonomous communities and as it is an outstanding debt, that is, it is an income that the autonomous communities need to finance, precisely, more pharmacotherapeutic innovations, we also put it to the vote. We would also like to see recognition of the increase in expenditure in the autonomous communities caused by the increase in VAT on health products. We already know that this increase in VAT was the result of the European Union, the ministry did not do it for pleasure, we fully agree. This increase in VAT that the Ministry of Finance is going to collect is going to remain so, and the autonomous communities have to buy and pay with that difference, and it represents many millions of euros of increase in the expenditure of the autonomous communities. That is why we call for some mechanism to be put in place to ensure that this increase in VAT is also distributed to the Autonomous Communities, that is, a compensatory mechanism. These are the demands we put forward in this motion and we would like them to be supported by the People's Group, although I am afraid it will not accept them. Mr President, I would like to say that I am grateful for the two amendments tabled to us by the Socialist Group and the Plural Left Group, and that we will add them to our motion. Therefore, Mr President, our motion will be voted on with the amendments tabled by the other two groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. In fact, there are two amendments that will be accepted, but for your defence you have the floor, first of all, by Mr Coscubiela, the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity on many occasions to express our opinion, that of the Plural Left, that the real problem, the drama of our health system, is the lack of funding; the under-funding of resources that punishes in a very important way besides those who have the responsibility to manage the National Health System, which are the autonomous communities. In this respect, our position is in favour of the approaches that the Convergence and Union Group is making to us today. Our group, however, has tabled an amendment which seeks to take the opportunity of this debate to make clear, and that the Congress of Deputies should make clear, the mandate to the Government to reject very clearly the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund concerning the reduction of health expenditure and the increase in co-payment. It requires defachability on the part of the International Monetary Fund to ensure that, in the same report, which notes a great increase in inequality in our country, we insist on policies of wage adjustment and deregulation and, at the same time, allow the luxury of recommending a reduction in health expenditure and greater privatization through co-payment. Of course the objective is very clear, the more the Public Health System deteriorates, the more space the private systems will have to deal with those who, of course, can pay for it, with which discrimination and inequality will occur not only in terms of income, but clearly in terms of access to health. In that regard, we appreciate that the Convergence and Union Group has already accepted our amendment to its motion. In any case, I would like to recall that calling for more resources for the health care we share should be accompanied by greater coherence on the part of the Convergence and Union Group and the policy of the Government of the Generalitat. It is not very consistent to ask for more resources for health care on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and to table on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays a defiscalization of the income of capital and of the patrimony, as you usually do permanently in this Congress or agree in the field of the Catalan Government. Resources to improve health care must come from somewhere, and certainly that side is a fairer taxation, a more adequate taxation. In that regard, let me tell you that not all the problems that Catalan public health has stem from the lack of health resources; a very important part is, of course, yes, and I am not going to take a point of reason from you in that defence. A health system such as Spanish, with scarce resources, is a system that is permanently in tension, which puts citizens on waiting lists and therefore channels them into the private system, while at the same time putting professionals under unsustainable stress. But I will have to admit that not all the problems stem from this lack of resources, there are some issues whose responsibility lies in the very policy of the Government of the Generalitat. For example, the lack of health resources does not justify the clear commitment to privatization made by the Government of Convergence i Unió, with Mr Boi Ruiz at the head. The lack of health resources does not justify, for example, that in Lleida, a territory you know very well, has insisted on a health consortium, until the social mobilization has managed to stop that measure. The lack of resources does not justify, for example, the Government of the Generalitat's commitment to hand over the management of primary care centres to entities outside the ICS, but not to any entity, but in many cases to non-health entities to the detriment of cooperatives of health professionals, as was attempted, for example, in L'Escala. The lack of health resources can certainly justify some of the issues being raised in the area of wages, but it does not justify that you have raised a reduction in ICS staff by 5,810 professionals out of a total of 43,000. In short, we are going to vote on his motion and we are going to do so so convinced that Catalonia and all the autonomous communities require more resources to guarantee universal health care and in conditions of equity such as the spokespersons of the white tide, who at the moment have asked in the Parliament of Catalonia all the parliamentary groups to approve once and for all, ask and demand the resignation of Councillor Boi Ruiz. I don't know what concept you have of the best government, but to think that Mr. Boi Ruiz is one of the best in the defense of health care is to be very gullible. It's one of the best, no doubt, but one of the best privatizing. But it's no surprise, because if you put the president of the private employer to manage the National Public Health System, the normal thing is that it happens like the one who keeps the chickens to a fox or a fox - I said fox first so that there is no problem -. I am sorry, but not all the problems depend on Spain; there are some that provoke you with your government action. I know you know very well and I know that maybe you'd even be saying the same thing I'm saying right now, but in any case you had to say it, someone had to say it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u88	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor to introduce your amendment, Mr Rangel.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u89	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to reproduce a debate that is currently taking place in the Catalonian Parliament and in which my group, my political party, is very critical with the management of the Councillor, but here we are for what we are for. I will defend the amendment we have tabled to the motion of the Convergence and Union Group on the sustainability and funding of the health system. We have already announced our vote in favour of it, and we do so from our radical defense of health as the basic pillar of the welfare state, of universal, public, free and quality health, as the Socialist Party has always defended. In our addendum amendment we propose that the specific health fund for the financing of drug-therapeutic innovations be provided with the resources necessary to ensure the cost of therapies against hepatitis C, by implementing the strategic plan against this disease, recently approved for the entire Spanish territory. I would also like to comment that some of the measures they propose in their motion are suffering from some technical problem, which will not be an obstacle to giving them the support I have already announced, since what is at stake is an urgent response to the problems of the poor situation of our health, but the main focus must be on policies aimed at ensuring the viability of the health system. Indeed, the harsh policy of fiscal consolidation has particularly penalized the services of persons entrusted constitutionally to the autonomous communities. It is also true that each autonomous community has had its priorities and some have capped the temporal better than others. The punishment has been even higher for two additional reasons. On the one hand, the internal distribution of the effort to contain the deficit between administrations, which has been disproportionate to the autonomous communities, which we have announced and denounced repeatedly. On the other hand, the Government's decision not to address the revision of the regional funding model that should have been carried out in 2013 and is still pending. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the general deficit target for Spain sets us Brussels, but the internal division of effort is decided by Mr Montoro. By the way, we do not understand what these last warnings the minister has made to local corporations and autonomous communities about meeting deficit and debt targets come to. Is it justifying their possible non-compliance with the latest data we have or has it to do with the election results, which have not been very favourable for their political formation? In any case, returning to the topic, was not the general expenditure rule provided for in the law sufficient? Why was a specific expenditure rule for health approved? Anyway, more twists to health spending. But what is relevant - as we have said - to know the real possibility of the viability and sustainability of the financing of the health system is the fiscal policy that will be carried out. The PP's fiscal policy is proposed and highlighted in the update of the 2015/2018 Stability Plan, recently presented by the Government of Spain. In this plan they state their strategy in terms of revenue and expenditure for the general government as a whole. What they propose is to maintain the income ratio around 38% of GDP, when the European average is 45.2; and the expenditure ratio, decreasing by 5 points of GDP, goes from 43.5 to 38.4; that is, much less than 48.1 of the European Union. If we look at the comparison with Europe, we have 4.5% of GDP less in expenditure and almost 8% less in income. Therefore, our problem is not of expenditure deficit, the problem is basically of revenue. Even so, the PP's option is very eloquent; it straddles the accounts not from above but by collecting more and below by cutting the welfare state. That's the real PP program for the next legislature. They will sell it with light and colour, including tax cuts, but they will sell an envelope that will hide the raw reality: a raquitico state unable to redistribute and fully guarantee the essential services of the welfare state for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we want to promote a model that equips us with a more robust economy and provides us with a fiscal policy that results in a state with sufficient muscle to redistribute wealth and to finance without any doubt the essential services of the welfare state, such as health, education or social care. That is what we are proposing, which is not exactly what the Group of the European People's Party is proposing. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u91	Thank you, President. Indeed, in the motion put to us by Mrs Tarruella, on behalf of Convergence and Union, she has limited her intervention to raising the need to ensure the sustainability and funding of the health system. Of course, the sustainability of the health system must be guaranteed, adequate funding must be guaranteed, but in the interventions of all the people who have preceded me in the use of the word, other things have emerged that inevitably have to arise, because, indeed, today, the competence in health matters is that of the autonomous communities. Therefore, and since the competence is of the autonomous communities, it is up to the State to ensure adequate funding, but it is also true that the autonomous communities have political autonomy and invest money in what they want. Some autonomous communities opt to devote more resources to health care and others opt to devote less resources to health care and use them in other things, that is, there is a political autonomy action that depends not only on the amount of funding, but on the political decision. I fully agree on the sustainability and funding of the health system, but the objective in a matter such as health must be more than that. We must ensure cohesion and equality through health policy, and a number of colleagues have also spoken about this issue. That is, if there is a cohesive instrument, a cohesive and egalitarian policy in a country, it is health, along with education; both are. Therefore, those who proclaim basic rights to health care - which is considered basic - must have the tools to make it effective on an equal footing despite the political competences of the autonomous communities. Those rights that are proclaimed as basic for all Spanish citizens must be guaranteed on an equal footing, which is why our parliamentary group is calling on the State to have jurisdiction over health matters. Not to deprive anyone of their powers, but to guarantee equality for all citizens, to ensure cohesion, so that there is more competence in political matters, but I know that that is not exactly what has been raised here today in the debate, even though it has overflew it. The Socialist Group's own spokesman, who has sometimes rebutted this Member's claim to regain health competence precisely in order to ensure cohesion and equality, has spoken of a racist state. Indeed, a raquitico state is one that does not have instruments to guarantee, in essence, equality for all citizens throughout Spain, regardless of where they live and the capacity of each autonomous community to apply such important competition for the lives of citizens, as cohesive and as egalitarian as health. But, I insist, this is a complementary debate, interesting in any case. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposal for Convergence and Union, with the two amendments which it has announced will be accepted. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the People's Group, Mrs Rodríguez Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Believe me, Mrs Tarruella, the Group of the European People's Party shares with you the concern for the sustainability of the system, and it is not a new concern that has come with the crisis. Our concern is shared by all actors involved in health for many years, and funding, although a key element, is not the only factor for such sustainability. This was expressed in its entirety by all the experts who appeared in the subcommission, as the representative of the PNV as well as yourself, who had a very active role. The rest of the groups would also know if they had participated and showed interest in these appearances to analyze the structural problems of the health system and its sustainability. Of course, funding is important, and we can agree that the current system, regulated by the 2009 Socialist Government Act, deserves a review. This is a question that needs to be addressed in a reflective way, but it will agree with me that in the moments we have experienced the first thing that had to be addressed was the very survival of the health system, which in 2011 we find ourselves practically in the ICU. With this situation of departure and at a very difficult time this Government has had to take extraordinary measures to give liquidity to the autonomous communities, to ensure health benefits and to do so with quality. ICO lines, payment to suppliers, advance of deliveries to account, FLA, continuity of postponement of negative settlement. Ladies and gentlemen, only for payment to suppliers has the Generalitat received more than 15 billion. I would like to remind you that the communities are responsible for setting priorities in the implementation of the transferred funding, because while the Government is making all that effort, the Generalitat today announces the opening of three new embassies - in Morocco, Portugal and the Vatican - as long as outpatients are closed and the announcement is made on the same day that the College of Pharmaceuticals denounces a non-payment close to 300 million euros. In their motion they propose the creation of other funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures taken by this Government ensure benefits and their efficiency. Innovation costs are balanced with savings by homogeneous groupings, reference prices and generics, and this means savings for the autonomous communities. And much more would be saved if we all took part in all the power stations...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u94	Excuse me, Congresswoman. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u95	Another group in the welfare state has spoken here, but the welfare state cannot be understood in our country without equity. In this sense Andalusian patients would have to be very concerned - now also in other places - because in my land, instead of prescribing the doctor, prescribes the advice of the branch, which does not seem to pay much attention and know the conditions under which many of the medicines that they are forced to dispense are manufactured. Ladies and gentlemen, this government at the toughest moments in recent history has achieved with its measures, together with the excellence of health professionals, the maintenance of the quality of services and has ensured their universality, with particular attention to people in difficulty. This Government has not only extended coverage to groups who previously did not have it - you have a curious sense of universality - but has also ensured free care for all those who stopped receiving unemployment benefits and who had previously had to pay. That is, when an unemployed person with no benefits paid for his or her medicine, that was not a co-op for many of you. As for foreigners in an irregular situation, Spain was at the forefront of health benefits and continued efforts to harmonize the benefits for all of them throughout the country at the various levels of care. And of course we want to ensure that all citizens have access to health services throughout the country with compensation mechanisms, but these are already covered by the Cohesion Fund and since 2012 with the FOGA. We agree with Mrs Tarruella that there are dysfunctions, but it is not a specific funding problem because the patient must travel with his money, with his and no one else's, and the ministry is working on changes that ensure that the co-payment is made up but above all that ensure that all citizens can have guaranteed assistance throughout the country and barrier-free access to reference units throughout the national territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Sánchez. You, Mrs Tarruella, have explained this perfectly, but for verification purposes, do you accept the amendments of the Socialist Group and the Plural Left Group? [[Consent]] That will be the vote. In a few minutes we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday morning we were left by José Federico de Carvajal, a Member of this House during the Fourth Legislature and President of the Spanish Senate during two Legislatures. José Federico de Carvajal was a man committed to his principles, a strong defender of workers' rights, becoming president of the Federation of Workers of the Law of the UGT. Today, the Congress of Deputies wants to pay tribute to who was a referent in the Spain of the Transition and to convey his feeling of grief to all his relatives and friends. I would also like to add, at the request of all the parliamentary groups, in the face of the sad news of the death of Ana María Vidal-Abarca, founder of the Association of Victims of Terrorism, that the Congress of Deputies also wishes to convey its expression of sorrow and affection to its relatives and friends, as well as to the entire group of victims of terrorism. Rest in peace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u97	We are going to vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group regulating the rights of the person before the final process of life. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 123 against 171; abstentions 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u98	It's not taken into consideration. - the Catalan Parliamentary Group, in order to enable the workers to initiate an employment regulation expedient for the termination of their contracts, when the contractor has not started the procedure and has been perjured by it. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 122/000150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u99	It takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in order to enable workers to initiate an employment regulation file for the termination of their contracts when the employer does not initiate the procedure and is adversely affected by it. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 128 against, 171 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u100	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u101	No bill by the People's Group on the development of a framework for action for older persons. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 173 against, 133 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u102	It's approved. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON RESTRICTIONS IN THE DISPOSAL OF VACUNES. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 162/000977]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u103	No bill proposed by the Catalan Parliamentary Group on restrictions on the supply of vaccines. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote was taken on the terms resulting from a compromise amendment by the Catalan and Popular groups. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 199 against 11 abstentions 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u104	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u105	Vote on the motion of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the sustainability and financing of the health system, incorporating the amendments of the Socialist and the Plural Left Groups. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 134 against 170; abstentions 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-16-CD150616.u106	The motion is rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
