ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u1	The meeting was resumed. Royal Decree-Law 3/2015 of 22 March, providing for an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment to combat fraud in public services, to boost the functioning of the Administration of Justice, and in implementation of the measures provided for in Law 27/2013 of 27 December, on rationalization and sustainability of the local administration. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Government brings to the Congress of Deputies the validation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2015 of 22 March, which sets in motion an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment for this year. The objective of this royal decree-law is to strengthen the fight against fraud in public services, the drive for the functioning of the Administration of Justice, and the implementation of the measures provided for in Law 27/2013 of 27 December on rationalization and sustainability of the local administration. As you know, the Government of the nation has launched since the beginning of the legislature a policy of containment of public expenditure, aimed at reducing in a decisive way the high deficit that we are in at the end of 2011. As is already well known, this policy of the Government, which assumed to have to subject public expenditure to severe adjustments, has been one of the main factors of the economic recovery that Spain is experiencing, a recovery that has as its main characteristics a firm and progressive economic growth, which according to the latest forecasts recently made known by the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Spain can be located this year between 2.5% and 2.8%, and a job creation that in annual terms is already more than half a million people. One of the measures taken to reduce the deficit was to drastically reduce the incorporation of new staff into the public sector. The State General Budgets approved in the first three years of the legislature stated that there would be no new highs, except in certain sectors which are considered to be priorities for the provision of essential public services, and even in these sectors access to a maximum of 10 % of the replacement rate was restricted. This is undoubtedly the policy that needs to be done in times of serious crisis, especially when one of the factors characteristic of it is a rapid growth of the public deficit, as a result of a sharp decline in income, which was accompanied by a high increase in expenditure. Paradoxically in the toughest years of the crisis, in the previous legislature, as the number of unemployed grew exponentially in the private sector, in the public sector the number of staff increased beyond what is necessary, with the consequent increase in the cost of payroll to the administration. No one could think that the number of people employed in the public sector would increase in the midst of the crisis by more than 400,000 people, but that happened in Spain, and also neglecting sectors that should be priorities, as has been shown later. At present, the Spanish public sector workforce is at levels that we consider to be adequate to provide with guarantees the services that Spanish society needs, so that there is no need to undertake further reductions. What we are doing is to assess which sectors need to be strengthened in order to maintain and improve the quality of the services provided by the Administration to citizens, and to continue working on the main objective of this legislature, which is the exit from the crisis, economic growth, and job creation. The new economic scenario and the need to strengthen certain areas of public administration have led the Government to launch a wider public employment offer than in the first years of the legislature, a public employment offer that does not abandon the philosophy of expenditure control, because a long path of fiscal consolidation is still ahead, but which makes the replacement rate in the essential sectors more flexible up to a maximum of 50%. Moreover, the offer of ordinary employment is accompanied, as last year, by an extraordinary offer of employment in key sectors, which is included in the royal decree-law that we bring to the House. A total of 7,416 new places will be convened in 2015, with an increase of 340 % over last year. In addition, domestic promotion positions increase by 79% and reach 3.834. With regard to the supplementary offers contained in this royal decree-law, I would like to stress that much of the work of the new officials who are going to occupy these places will be focused on the prevention and fight against fraud and crime, an aspect in which the Government has made special efforts in this legislature, and which is undoubtedly a widespread demand in society. Local Government officials. Following the articulation of the royal decree, in the first place it is authorized to call up to 200 places on the scale of local government officials with national authorization. Since 2007, when this competition became dependent on the autonomous communities, the call for these places has been much less than the number of vacancies, even before the restrictions on the offer of public employment began. The situation is that the largest number of vacancies are in the sub-scales of intervention-treasury and secretariat-intervention, which are the areas assigned to the functions of internal control and control of economic-financial and budgetary management, in addition to the function of accounting, treasury, and collection of local entities. These are functions that are increasingly important every day, both for the control of the public deficit and the achievement of budgetary stability and for the fight against fraud and corruption in the field of local government. The Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government adopted by the Government more than a year ago establishes a new regulation of the legal regime of these officials, extending the powers of the General Administration of the State over them, and giving the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration the power to approve the offer of public employment and the selection of local government officials with national authorization. Last year this ministry already approved the call of 210 additional places to the ordinary offer, so we intend to gradually remedy the deficit of officials accumulated in this field. It should also be borne in mind that in this case the additional offer does not entail an increase in cost, since local corporations where they provide their services must have these positions budgeted, regardless of whether they are vacant or not. The fact that they are not covered by staff on this scale involves the appointment of temporary staff or accidental appointments. The Government believes that strengthening the role and functions of the intervention agencies requires greater professionalism and effectiveness in the exercise of internal control functions through the appointment of qualified staff and technical expertise. Combating tax fraud and expenditure control. Secondly, this royal decree includes the convening of new places in the field of combating tax fraud and expenditure control. A total of 254 places will be allocated to the Tax Agency, and another 40 to the General Intervention of the State. The role of the Tax Agency, both in the voluntary fulfilment of fiscal and customs obligations by citizens and in the prevention and fight against tax fraud, is essential to ensure the solvency of the State and the provision of public services to citizens. We are faced with an essential institution in our country, an institution that has been modernised as few, which works with higher efficiency rates than in most of the countries in our economic environment, and which demonstrates in each of its actions a high degree of professionalism and commitment, for the benefit of the general interest of the Spaniards. Unfortunately, as I said in the case of local officials with national authority, in the years when there were financial means to increase their staff, the staffing of the agency was neglected, although we were then required to do so by the following political leaders, even though we have had to work under essential conditions of budgetary restraint. In order to maintain the agency's operational capacity at levels appropriate to its role during these years, the Government included it among the key sectors when approving public employment offers. In addition, we are working to improve management methods, advance the application of new technologies and introduce measures to rationalize and stimulate productivity, with the aim of improving their effectiveness and efficiency. The consequence of all this has been a clear improvement in control actions, in tax collection on a voluntary basis, and especially in the prevention and fight against tax fraud. The three years of the current legislature have been the best results in the fight against fraud in the recent history of our public finances. In 2014, revenues reached a record 12.3 billion euros, the result of the professionalism and efficiency of its staff, and the guidelines with which they have worked. The fight against fraud has been a constant in these three years, and it will continue to be so from now on. Many people, including some of his ladies and gentlemen, scandalize and attack the Government when information is published in the media about the actions of the Tax Agency, in which even names of people of social relevance appear. What would scandalize me would be that these actions were not done, and that people of social relevance could not be investigated, as has happened on previous occasions. [[Applauds]] This Government and this Minister fully respect the independence and autonomy with which the officials of the Tax Agency work, and intervene only to try to improve the means at their disposal, to support them in their work when they are even attacked from outside, and to stimulate them in their work, which is to fight against fraud and to increase the revenue of the State. They are told that in order to do so they have to go where they detect possible fraud bags or signs of crime, without having to worry as much as possible about the names and surnames of potential fraudsters, their professional activity, their social relevance or their political affiliation. In the fight against fraud and corruption, respect for the law and the general interest are above all; above political or electoral interests, above comrades and rivals, above friends and enemies, and each one responds to his or her actions. [[Greetings.- Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros: Very good!]] That is what the Government and this minister are promoting, that is what is causing so many successes in the fight against fraud, and so much information in the media; what they do not understand is because they prefer to close their eyes to reality in order not to recognize that also in this area, as in economics with economic recovery and in so many others, the Government is doing what it must to get Spain forward. The Government considers it a priority to increase human resources in the fight against tax fraud in order to advance the objective of ensuring that all citizens and businesses contribute to State expenditure, according to their income and wealth. As of last year, the Tax Administration increased its staff by 166 new positions in the offer of extraordinary employment, and 72 more in the ordinary, to which more than 600 positions of internal promotion were added in order to strengthen the staff structure of the agency. This year the 254 places provided for by this royal decree-law are added to the 230 included as a replacement rate in the offer of regular employment, which adds up to 484 places. With regard to the general intervention of the State, I would like to point out that in recent years some regulatory changes have been adopted, which will entail an important additional workload and consequently increased staffing needs, which are being addressed in this extraordinary job offer. On the other hand, the royal decree-law that we submit to the validation of the Chamber authorizes the convening of 150 places in the field of the fight against labour fraud and social security. The Government considers it necessary to increase the staff of the Labour and Social Security Inspection system in order to step up the fight against irregular employment and social security fraud. The aim is to be able to step up action in this area in order to put an end to the practices of irregular and submerged economy that rob workers of social rights, leaving them without social security coverage and avoiding the payment of quotas necessary for the maintenance of the system. Increased human resources will enable new inspection campaigns to be planned and the coordination and cooperation tools of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate with other bodies responsible for labour, social and employment policies to be strengthened. It is also necessary to strengthen other areas, such as the Legal Service of the Administration of Social Security, the General Intervention of the State, and the managing bodies and common services of Social Security. Finally, the royal decree-law authorizes the summoning of 160 places in the body of judicial secretaries, half of them re-entry and the other half of internal promotion. The latest procedural reforms have incorporated greater powers for the secretaries of justice, who as heads of the judicial office are a key step in driving judicial proceedings, and thus in ensuring greater agility, efficiency and efficiency in the resolution of judicial matters. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by affirming that after a period of forced restriction on access to the public service, the Government is increasing this year the number of places in sectors that are absolutely essential for the proper functioning of the administration, to equip the public service that citizens receive with greater quality, to improve the income of the State, and as we are demonstrating to strengthen economic recovery and job creation. The extraordinary offer of public employment included in the royal decree-law that we submit to the validation of the House will incorporate in key areas of the Administration new professionals who wish to undertake a career in the public sector at the service of their fellow citizens. The political will of the Government is to strengthen unique areas of action that are closely related to the control and fight against fraud and crime, whether from the point of view of the Administration, from the tax, labour, or in general with the work carried out by the justice system. I firmly believe that all citizens are obliged to comply with our obligations wherever we carry out our work, and especially when those obligations involve participating in the maintenance of the services provided by the State or in the clean and efficient management of the public resources managed by the politicians; and I firmly believe that the State as a whole must put all possible means in place to control and punish fraudulent and criminal conduct, regardless of who the individuals or companies, entities or institutions commit them. From this conviction I ask this House to validate this royal decree-law which strengthens our public administration as the backbone of the State with new human resources, and makes the work of institutions that fight fraud, corruption and all kinds of crimes more effective. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u3	Thank you very much, Minister for Finance and Public Administration. The use of the counter-turn by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left has been requested. For that purpose, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, I must admit that you are a genius; a real genius, I tell you sincerely. I don't know anyone so skilled to move the cubes so constantly and quickly, and today you have demonstrated it again. It's spectacular. I have, from the deep discrepancy, an admiration for your ability to present things to us in the way that I think they are. Come this recognition to introduce what our approaches are, contrary to this decree-law, which we will try to explain. After you have deforested an important part of the public employment of this country you come up with a proposal to plant a few hundred pine trees, and you pretend that we cheer you as if you are the great defender of the forests. That's exactly what you've done today, skillfully, no doubt, but skill never hides reality or at least should not. What a beautiful name that of your decree-law, what good intentions you have presented us, but how different is the public employment policy that you have practiced, from which this decree-law is only one piece. Since you came to the Government you have practiced a significant policy of cuts in public employment; you have undoubtedly presented it with two objectives: rationalization and budgetary adjustment; you have done so directly in the field of the General Administration of the State, but also indirectly, through basic regulations and asphyxiation, to autonomous communities and local administrations, because behind that objective, behind the alibi of the rationalization of public administration and budgetary adjustment there was a clear willingness to restructure the competition distribution, and the weight of the different administrations throughout the public sector. The Government has presented this to us with the typical propaganda of its reformist agenda and budgetary stability. But, Mr. Montoro, not one thing or the other. What you have done during this legislature is not a reform of public administrations. The reforms are done with neurosurgeon scalpel, and you have applied the lumberjack chainsaw; and so we are right now. It is not possible to act in the field of public administration and rationalization - which is undoubtedly necessary - with coffee policies for all, without selecting objectives, raising only their policies oriented towards the idea of the minimum state. Basically that's the problem; that's the deep problem. You are deeply conditioned by an ideology, which you explained meridically - I don't know if you remember - when you presented, in July 2012, the royal decree-law of budgetary adjustment, in compliance with a memorandum that forced us to a series of measures to save the bank that we are financing. I have never seen a business more negative, from the point of view of any negotiator, than the one that was placed in that royal decree-law. You then missed some pearls that you have been reproducing in some of your interventions in relation to your concept of public employment. You would like a minimum public employment, you would like the minimum state, because that is ultimately the ideology you have. The proof that this does not respond to budgetary reasons, Mr Montoro, is that at the moment, in a situation in which local governments already present surplus - and you know it - and having reduced their staffing by more than 14%, you continue in the General Budgets of the State by imposing on the municipalities the non-replenishment of the staffing, because that is what had been agreed in the General Budgets of the State a few months ago; with one exception: the local police, to which you allow the replacement rate of one hundred percent. Welcome be; certainly safety is important in our municipalities. But can I ask you what concept of society you have, for which the local police is an essential service, and instead not a street educator or a social worker? That's his concept of society, unfortunately. And this has a lot to do with the policies you've been practicing. I insist - let us not be fooled - that behind the minimum state and scarce and deteriorated public services there is always a will for business, as has been repeatedly demonstrated in the process of privatization of health in Madrid. There are obvious scandals, and behind the will to say that the private is more efficient than the public someone is always doing a business. I have to admit to you, however, that the Sanitat Councillor of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Mr Boi Ruiz, is not behind you. The truth is that it competes with you, with the People's Party, wonderfully in that sense. You repeatedly put forward a concept that we would once like to discuss with you: the concept of public-private collaboration. Of course, one of the key elements of a good functioning of the Administration is public-private collaboration, especially in the field of the social economy. But you don't do public-private collaboration. You on more than one occasion do what you do is parasitize, vampireize the public sector for the benefit of the private sector. You know that today we have in this country 22,000 less public employees in the General Administration of the State, 71,000 less in the autonomous communities, and 85,000 less in the local administrations. And you consider that to be the fair level of public administrations. Do you and I take a walk right now through the city halls, to see how pressure is being put on social services and their professionals, and tell them that the level they have right now and that you have imposed on them in the different budgets is the right level? I might understand - although I do not share it - that you justified it in terms of budgetary adjustment: that is where I had to cut, you have told us, but what I cannot understand is that you tell us that you now consider that to be the right level. Do you really believe that the level of our hospitals and primary care centres is the right one? Please, if you just have to walk around them. What's going on? Little personal causes waiting lists and these cause the channelling of those people who can pay for it to private health, because behind the minimum state, behind the cutting of public services, there is always someone who does a business and that is the pure reality. [[Applauds]] After years of non-replenishment of staff, after the 2015 General State Budgets have set a replenishment rate of only 50% for certain sectors and in others of zero, we now come up with a decree-law and pose it as the great thing of the world. No, look; first objection, you have to explain why there has been so much improvisation. We have just approved General State Budgets with a public offer of employment. Why could not what they are presenting us now be in the General Budgets of the State? I don't understand, you haven't explained it to us. He has explained many things to us, but that has not; I ask him to explain it to us. Second general objection, his permanent contempt for collective bargaining. I'm going to tell you something you don't have to know, so I'm going to let you know. On 18 March this year the Director General of Public Service at a meeting with the General Bureau of the General Administration of the State - on 18 March - committed to a new meeting with the unions before the approval of this extraordinary offer of employment; less than 48 hours later the Council of Ministers approved this decree-law, again violating the right to collective bargaining and demonstrating that the word of a member of this government is as good as a false note, nothing. We will enter into the detail element to which you have referred, local government officials with special authority. You know that what you are proposing is not an increase in staffing, what you are currently claiming with this extraordinary job offer is already budgeted staffing that is now covered in precariousness. Welcome whether you go from precarious to covered in a normal situation, but do not present it as an increase in staffing. Why only in qualified officials, secretaries and intervenors? Will it be because you trust them to be your enforcer arm in limiting the autonomy of local governments? Do you intend to use secretaries and interveners as the political commissioners of the disappearance or at least the alibi of municipal autonomy? I tell you that you will not succeed, because these officials have shown with their dignity that they are not willing to violate the rule in that regard. As far as tax fraud is concerned - let's make it clear - between the offer of the State's general budgets and the one you are proposing at the moment, in addition, are below the forecast of 581 casualties that are going to occur by 2015. That is to say, all together it involves less personnel in the field of tax administration. This happens in a situation of chronic understaffing. You should know - you know - that in Spain there is one tax agency employee for every 967 citizens, less than the European Union average which is 435 and well below what Germany, France or the United Kingdom have. Is that an explanation of why, despite the professionalism and efforts of the tax agency professionals, our level of efficiency in the pursuit of fraud and tax evasion is much lower than theirs, as well as our level of collection, EUR 80 billion, 8% of GDP less than the EU average? So, please, let us address this issue in depth because what cannot be done is that you have left a trade union agreement of 2007. The Beteta decree gave effect to a trade union agreement of 2007 for the professional career at the Tax Agency. That's right, they've implemented fait accompli policies, productivity complements that give incredible things. As long as some do not perceive them, right now the territorial delegate of the Tax Agency - I will not tell you of which autonomous community, but if you want to mention it, because you also know it very well - has received in 2014 a supplement of productivity - only of productivity, apart from everything else - of 36,000 euros and the head of the Inspection of 32,000 euros. Welcome are the productivity add-ons, but the equipment works with everyone. You will not want to set up a Zidanes and Pavones Tax Agency - three Zidanes and all the other Pavones - because the efficiency of the Tax Agency has to do precisely with teamwork. We come to an issue that you have presented today. He has been telling us - he shows us before us - of the great role of this government in the pursuit of fraud; that is where I tell you that you are skilled, that you are a genius. It makes vice virtue, but forgets the following: from 2000 to 2003, Mr Rajoy, Vice-President of the Government; Mr Rato, Minister of Economy; Mr Montoro, Minister of Finance. Year 2012: Mr. Rajoy, President of the Government; Mr. Montoro, Minister of Finance who approves a fiscal amnesty; Mr. Rato welcomes the fiscal amnesty, and now that the scandal appears you take out your chest and say: I will pursue everyone. Please, we don't suck our fingers. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] If you really want to get rid of that issue, do one thing, fulfill your commitment: transparency. Publish once and for all, already, the list of tax fraudsters. [[Applauds]] People can't stand that if they stop paying a letter to a bank, they go out on a list of bad guys and, instead, the big fraudsters are in impunity, because social reprimand is also a way to fight tax fraud. Do so once and for all and, furthermore, bearing in mind that this is undoubtedly an obligation that could have already been fulfilled between 2000 and 2003. By the way, inheritances go far; not only in the last four years. Labour Inspection and Social Security. Here we encounter a bad endogenous There is an increase in global template - I will recognize it - of superior bodies and technical bodies, but the abandonment of support templates continues. Anyone who knows the Labour Inspectorate - I can assure you that here there are some who know it, I do - knows that it is useless to have more inspectors and subinspectors if then you accumulate your work at the tables because no one is able to channel it; that is what is happening right now with the inspectors. You keep that template, the support one, under zero. There is one important thing about fraud. Since Minister Báñez is not here, she doesn't like to argue with us, I have to explain it to you, but they are colleagues and friends. The fight against fraud in the field of employment is essential. We have to give her the means, but where are they headed? You are wrong, because wanting to make only submerged employment emerge so that statistics improve are forgetting one very, very important thing: to pursue submerged employment is necessary for ethical reasons and for many others, but to pursue precariousness is essential, because apart from improving collection increases dignity at work, and the fight against precariousness is one of the functions of the Labour Inspectorate that you have abandoned. I shall end, Minister, with a subject relating to justice. We return to the same; you know that in this decree-law the squares that it approves are not new, at the moment they are covered by interims. It does not give me time, but if one day you want the government to discuss what means to give the Justice Administration to make it effective, my colleague Gaspar Llamazares or I are willing to discuss it. The great effort being made by the judges of this country, the secretaries and other personnel to ensure that impunity is not consolidated can only come to a good place if it is accompanied by means, and unfortunately there has been no government so far in this country that has made the appropriate means available to the Administration of Justice. The future criminal prosecution law that restricts the processing period of a trial if it is not accompanied by more means will not mean more guarantee but more impunity, and that is what we have prepared in a bill to reform the Criminal Prosecution Act. I hope they're able to modify it. In short, Minister, I hope I have explained to you the reason why the good news that you bring us, as it is framed in a deforestation of the forest, cannot be supported, because unfortunately the problem that the Public Service has at the moment is that the governments do not know how to exercise professional employers of the Public Service and transfer those incompetences to those who are working on it. In that sense, if they agreed to process this decree-law as a bill we would reconsider our vote for abstention, but if they keep it in those terms our vote can be no other than against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. The Group of the European People's Party has requested authorisation of the shift, and it seems that its representative is Mrs Álvarez-Arenas. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: I would like to use the position-setting shift last. [[A Member of Parliament: It is in its perfect right]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas. In that case, we enter the position-setting round and Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group. [[PNV]] [[Mr. Coscubiela Conesa: Doesn't anyone dare to argue?]] Mr Coscubala, you have already spoken enough; now you must shut up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance and Public Administration, today we are again faced with a real decree which once again demonstrates the double standard applied by the government in the legislative process. Use the funnel law, the broad part for you and the narrow part for others. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Montoro, I think you will understand when I explain it to him. Over the last few years, using the apology of the crisis and applying to machamartillo the unquestionable policy of austerity and cuts - a policy which, by the way, the majority of economists and solvent institutions acknowledge has failed dramatically in Europe - his Government has overly limited the number of workers in public administrations. Come on, we think their hand's gone. The Budgets Act has even prevented the replacement of vacant posts and those that were being generated for retirement or other reasons. First, they made it possible to cover only 10% of the losses, and that percentage reached up to 50% in the last budget law. This policy prevented other administrations, especially the autonomous communities, from properly developing their policies. Education, health or social policies in the hands of the autonomous administrations were and are conditioned and limited by the will of the People's Party Government. They were and are because the only thing proposed by this royal decree-law is the extension of places in the tax area of their competence, in the area of social security and in that of the so-called local officials of national empowerment, as well as of new judicial secretaries. In other words, it fixes its problems - which in the opinion of the Basque Group are minor - and prevents other administrations from expanding their staffing for the proper exercise of their policies. After seven years of crisis and experienced cuts, education, health and social policies have been severely affected. It is more than likely that it is necessary to incorporate teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, etc., to cover part of the vacancies produced and reduce the deterioration that, in fields as important and vital to our present and future as education and health, has occurred. This is what is happening in the most decentralized country in the world, according to President Rajoy. Can we really interpret, Mr Montoro, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, which is the most decentralized country when there is no autonomy even to manage its own human resources? Why are they cheating on us? Why do you want to fool the citizens? The truth is that what his Government is trying to do is to re-centralize and reverse an autonomous state that they do not like. They are able to bypass the statutory consensus with basic laws that undermine and deteriorate the legal framework that we have agreed. On the other hand, do they really believe that there is a need to expand the number of judicial secretaries or municipal officials rather than those in the education, health and dependency sectors? This is precisely the law of the funnel. It will not be me and my parliamentary group who feel that there is no need to increase the number of inspectors to combat tax fraud and social security fraud. We think very well - you praised it today - the independence of the Tax Agency and that it should act with the maximum means available to combat fraud and corruption. As you say today, Mr Montoro, you have received the applause of your bench. What is not to applaud, however, is that an ex-president of his party appears on the list of people who have taken up the tax amnesty and have laundered capital; that is not to applaud. That is a real scandal difficult to digest in any democracy, but in the Spanish state it is almost normal; this is precisely what is unacceptable and what is rejected. On the other hand, in the royal decree-law the justifications given are, in our view, neither precise nor enlightening. Mr Montoro could have made a greater effort to justify the expansion of staffing in these areas. The Committee is also concerned at the increase in the control of local governments, which increases the number of staff. Instead of basing the institutional relationship on the age of majority and institutional coordination, it prefers to base it on mistrust, on the stick and temptuous, on placing inspectors in other institutions. To all this it wants to give character of urgency, to justify its urgent processing through the royal decree-law. That urgency, Mr Montoro, is not justified in our view. I do not mean that improving the fight against fraud is not urgent. It is now and it was when the legislature began. Why haven't they done so far? It is now only more urgent because of the inaction in this regard, but there is no justification for urgency in order to pass this measure by a royal decree-law or by a new decree. Mr Montoro, gentlemen of the People's Group, include in the royal decree-law the possibility of the expansion of public workers in the areas I have commented on, or adopt another royal decree to eliminate the limitation that the Budget Act imposes on the autonomous communities so that they can manage human resources; that will have our support. [[education, health and social policies]] This cannot be achieved; it is not urgent, it does not address priority policies and only concerns the scope of its competences. Mr Montoro, you're being squeezed into our competition and you're taking off your shoe to relieve yourself. Other autonomous administrations have a bigger, more painful callus in matters that I think we all think are sensitive, such as education and health, and you do not allow them to have this relief and can manage policies as they should. That - I insist - happens in the country, according to you, the most decentralized in the world. We cannot prevent you from doing what you see fit in your own competition framework, from doing what you think, but in this case you will not be able to have our support. For what it's argued, we can't give it to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. By Union Progreso and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. By means of this royal decree, the Government carries out an extraordinary call for public employment, in addition to the ordinary one carried out in the General Budgets of the State, and this leads to a first comment. The budgets were adopted recently and have already undergone numerous changes. Every time we discuss them, the Minister of Finance presumes the rigour and efficiency with which he designs them, but one year and another they get outdated, sometimes before they start to run. In this extraordinary call, attention is focused on three areas: the first is the local authorities, for which internal control and control places are called. It's good to see you, welcome. Let us remember that the origin of so many problems in our local administration, such as expenses incurred without being budgeted or invoices in the drawers, have had much to do with the misappropriation of these national officials and their progressive loss of independence. However, the economic memory itself points to something relevant, that these places already exist; they are occupied by interims, but they already exist, it is not a endowment of new resources. This measure would certainly have much greater effect if it were part of something that the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has not done, a thorough reform of the local administration. If this were part of that reform in depth, part of the merger of municipalities - we continue in our country with more than 8,000 municipalities, a large part of them of less than 1,000 inhabitants - of greater size, this type of measures would have more effect and more meaning, instead of remaining in slashes and partial measures, such as these. The second area of action is the administration of justice. Judicial secretaries' places are called. Welcome back, of course, to our collapsed Justice Administration will do you good. It will never be easy to accurately calculate the economic effects of the type of justice we have, as well as those of its slowness on so many business-related issues, and it is only one facet of the problem. Again, it should be pointed out - the economic memory itself says - that we are not talking about new places, but about those already existing, occupied today by interim staff. I repeat, this would make real sense as part of a reform of the Administration of Justice that deals with more fundamental problems, for example, the politicization of justice. The General Council of the Judiciary continues to have the composition it has, and the Progressive Union and Democracy is the only group in this House that has resigned from being in it. These substantive issues are of greater importance than the cuts, the partial measures that are included here. Third area of action: the fight against fraud, taxation and labour. How can we not agree when this should be a great state pact and a national emergency? We are in a country where 22% of our economy, of our GDP, is a submerged economy, and the different studies to estimate the submerged economy - whether through actual use or electricity - all come to similar conclusions. This means that every year 70,000 or 80 billion euros, 7 or 8 points of GDP, are no longer collected in our country. How can we not agree to provide more resources for this fight against fraud? The main criticism is that they are insufficient reinforcements. This royal decree calls a total of 724 places and, according to the EPA, around 3 million people work in our public sector; that is, we are increasing this public force by 0.02%. It doesn't seem like anything spectacular or could have very significant effects. I'm going to focus my comments on the tax agency because it's something we've been discussing throughout the legislature. We have repeatedly criticised the fact that the resources of the tax agency have been reduced in the State's general budgets by a double way: in its budget allocation and with a replacement rate which you say is 10% or 50%, and I reply that it is at least 90% or 50%. That is to say, of the 100 who retire, 10 are replenished in the first budgets or half in the last budgets. When from the opposition we have said this sort of thing from the majority group, from the government, they have refused. But - how curious! - when they rectify they fall into a certain schizophrenia and to justify their rectifications end up giving reason to opposition groups. I will quote a few sentences from Royal Decree 5/2014, for which a year ago for these dates there was an extraordinary endowment of places, and of the economic memory of this Royal Decree. We find pearls like the following that you would deny if I said them: There has been a serious negative evolution of the staff in the Tax Agency - it does not say UPyD, its official documents say -. This number has usually been around 28,000 and at the end of 2014 it stood at 25,742, more than 2,000 posts are lost than usual. There has been an increase in the average age of this workforce, from 40 to 50, and with such an ageing workforce there is a risk of losing a quarter more by 2020. That's not true, demagogues, populists! Hey, it's your official documents. You, when you rectify, tell some truths. This happens in a country where we have much less resources in the fight against fraud than our neighbouring countries. In France there are 117,000 people in their equivalent to the Tax Agency; in Germany 110,000; in the Netherlands, a country smaller than ours, 29,000, more than in Spain. Can we be surprised after the lack of effectiveness in the fight against fraud by very efficient, competent and professional officials and all the staff of the Tax Agency? No, we can't be surprised, it's a natural consequence of our policies. This has been one of the great mistakes of your policy this legislature, Mr Montoro, because, as your economic memory also says, the most elementary analyses indicate that there is a very important multiplier effect on the Tax Agency: for each euro of expenditure on inspection, in the fight against fraud, 17 are collected; so it has not been a good way to save the resources of the Tax Agency. The second mistake that has multiplied the first - has a multiplier effect - has been to devote less resources to fighting fraud and promulgating a tax amnesty. I would like to remind you of some of our discussions on this issue. We told him at the time - we or his inspectors, wasn't it? - that it was a mistake to allow the tax amnesty to include cash because it was going to facilitate money laundering. Do you remember? Money laundering. We said that in the first debates on tax amnesty. We told him, did we not?, from the beginning, that the lists of guests had to be checked because there was a serious risk, as it was designed, that the tax amnesty would be mixed with problems of corruption, and with problems of political corruption, and that political error was added to the economic error. Why do I tell you that? Not because of the unsympathetic stance of stressing that I've already told you. No, it's just that you present mistakes when they occur as unpredictable, saying: this was unpredictable. It wasn't unpredictable. Discussions on the tax amnesty had already been said, and the inspectors had also said so. That's why it's surprising that in the most emphatic part of your speech you're getting your chest out. We have now discovered that it seems that Mr. Rat has taken up amnesty. Institutions work! Yes, but to take advantage first he had to enact amnesty and to find out now - in the slightest check that is being made - we have had to bring this issue for years and put social pressure on it to do something because, if it were for you, there would not even have been any check. The Tax Agency has now sent the Sepblac a list of seven hundred and five people who, according to the press and all indications, are public offices. Seven hundred people are many people, seven hundred former public offices. Where does your money come from when public revenues are assessed and public salaries are generally austere? How exemplary are those people who have held or held public office and had simultaneously hidden their money from the Public Treasury and now regularize it? Doesn't seem like a breast-feeding theme, Mr. Montoro. Returning to the general assessment of the royal decree before announcing the meaning of our vote, you, after a misguided policy throughout the legislature, now replenish a minimum part of the essential resources that you had cut, and ask us to congratulate you. Nor do we see the urgent need for this royal decree. The only urgent need is that it was announced a couple of days before the Andalusian elections. We believe that it is good that these places are called, but they are part of a wrong policy throughout the legislature and they represent only a percentage of the wrongly cut, so our vote cannot be support but abstention. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Sayós. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, suspended. To begin with, I must insist once again that this Government cease to regulate by means of royal decrees-laws because, although they try to support their motives, the vast majority do not correspond to the spirit established in article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, when it states: In case of extraordinary and urgent need... It sets limits, and one of them is not being able to affect the rights, duties and freedoms of citizens regulated by Title I of the Spanish Constitution. The right to work, whether on behalf of others or also public employment, is regulated under this Title I. Moreover, Minister, by also appealing to the Spanish Constitution, Article 31.2 provides that public expenditure shall be allocated equitably from public resources and that its programming and execution shall meet criteria of efficiency and economy. If we are to fight tax fraud and what you call labour fraud - I resist using this nomenclature, although it is the one contained in the actual decree-law which is now the subject of validation, or not - is it the subject of extraordinary and urgent need? The answer is blunt and clear: no. Once said this, Minister, we will enter into the content of Royal Decree-Law 3/2015. Note: a bare five. This royal decree-law creates an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment, that is, in addition to the offer of ordinary public employment established by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I insist, determining it as extraordinary does not correspond to the spirit of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, as I explained at the beginning of my intervention. If we leave aside the places of internal promotion, this year 2015 will have called 7,416 new places, of which 6,692 places will have been by decree of the Council of Ministers and 724 places by this royal decree-law, although to me I leave 744, according to the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 20 March 2015. Of these 7,416 places, 3,058 are intended for the General Administration of the State, i.e. these places are not intended for the fight against tax fraud or the fight against labour fraud or the Administration of Justice, no, these places are intended to strengthen the bureaucracy of the ministries, the bureaucracy of the Central Administration. None of these places is to meet the needs of the public interest. For example, the lack of traffic examiners. They are insufficient, Minister. These places are a social demand and this is ruining self-schools, because citizens do not know when they will be examined. Driving is also public safety, Minister; this is the public interest. On the other hand, it has been regulated without taking into account article 92 of Law 27/2013 of 27 December of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration - certainly, minister, I remind you that this law is challenged before the Constitutional Court for invasion of jurisdiction - nor article 21 of Law 36/2014 of 26 December of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2015 and concordant, for example, within the limits of the replacement rate. Premises: more control, more collection, more personal; or, tax reform, more means of control and inspection, more personal. That is the usual excuse, rather than seeking the efficiency and effectiveness of the resources that are available or optimised. Indeed, in the area of reform of the IRPF, the collection is imputed to the part of the State, without the benefit of the autonomous communities, since it is the Autonomous Administration that has received the greatest pressure to contain public expenditure, together with the Local Government. So, does it make sense for the General Administration of the State, abusing its position of domination over other administrations, to increase the bureaucratic staff of its ministries by more than 3,000 people, when the autonomous and local administrations see their staff reduced and this has an impact not on internal bureaucracy but on the direct provision of services to citizens, that is, education, health and social services, without being able to replenish their staff, for example, in the case of retirement? Minister, the General Administration of the State is not an administration that is above the local or autonomous administrations. The General Administration of the State cannot exercise a dominant position with respect to the Autonomous and Local Administration. The General Administration of the State is on the same scale as the autonomous or local administrations because this is established by the Spanish Constitution. Two positive points, Minister - yes, there are two positive points - although one with reservations. The first positive point and with reservations: the extension of the posts provided for in the Administration of Justice will involve the establishment of new posts of judicial secretaries, who are very important agents in order to speed up the procedures. This right, the right to effective judicial protection and to a trial without undue delay, contained in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, is within Title I and is relevant. Convergence and Union therefore welcomes that it equips the Administration of Justice with human resources. But first of all, in Catalonia, for example, there are a number of important disputes. Let us hope that these places will be covered in Catalonia, and the Minister of Justice must also do his job, which is to equip the judicial offices with the modernization of ICT and the necessary materials. That is, roughly speaking, by the many judicial secretaries there are, without a computer, they won't do much good. Secondly, the creation of more places of judicial secretaries does not correspond to having more legal certainty, as is intended to be based on expository III of the Royal Decree-Law. Legal certainty, to which I so much appeal to the Government on different occasions, has been well legislated and this responsibility does not fall to the Administration of Justice, since its role is another. The legislative role lies with this House, but the government's poor legislative practice undermines Spain's legal security. That is why this State is at the bottom of the country table on legal certainty. The second positive point - Article 5 of the Royal Decree-Law - is a minimum of 7 % of the reserve of the places called for to be covered by persons with disabilities, except in the places called for the Administration of Justice, which is at least 5 %. Minister, Convergència i Unió agrees that a public job offer is called, but not with the motivation that this royal decree-law entails, let alone with which these calls serve to increase the staff of the General Administration of the State and thus prioritize the structure and functioning of the State so that it is more powerful and also more inefficient, so that the Administration is further away from the citizen or that the Administration does not satisfy the care services of the citizens directly. We are sorry, Minister, but we cannot share your claim. Although the Convergence and Union Group is convinced that there must be a supply of public employment, it does not agree that the majority of the supply corresponds to the General Administration of the State, to the ministerial bureaucracy. And we could not share in any of the ways that this call for public job offers intended to decrease or make up unemployment rates because that would be a very serious mistake. As you said, Minister, do not close your eyes. Convergence and Union shall vote abstention. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. Mrs Sumelzo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a new correction by the Government on some of the toughest policies carried out since the beginning of the legislature, a partial correction, half, Mr Montoro, but a correction at the end. It is an implicit recognition by the Government that its policy on public employment was wrong, that it was a mistake and has now taken very timidly the reverse direction. Let me tell you, Minister, that we have more than enough reason to believe that this is not a serious decision, but that it has a purely provisional meaning because no one is hidden from the fact that the royal decree reveals an inescapable electoral tufa. You can see the desperation of what is coming to you, but the damage, Mr Montoro, is already done and I assure you that the citizens will not forget the serious injuries caused, especially in terms of social cohesion, because, among other things, they continue to suffer them. Mr Montoro, now approve an offer of 7,400 re-entry positions plus 3,800 internal promotion, which do not generate a net increase in strength, will not hide that since they arrived in the Government they have destroyed more than 300,000 jobs in the public sector. [[Applauds]] The EPA says, Mr. Montoro, this spokesman doesn't invent it. All these years we have heard you and the Vice-President of the Government try to relativize what has happened by proclaiming that jobs have been lost in public enterprises, foundations and consortia; and that is not true. We demonstrated it with official data from his Government. In the public administrations in a strict sense - you understand me - 170,000 jobs have been lost. These are data from the central staff register that manages your ministry. They're doctors, teachers, nurses, cops, tax inspectors, social workers... There are 170,000 fewer employees since the ruling of the People's Party. Between 2012 and 2014, you virtually closed the door to the incorporation of new public employees with a zero or irritating replacement rate. The most serious of all is that its policy has affected the heart of the provision of public services, precisely the raison d'être of the administration itself in its relationship with the citizen. In addition, they have not made a selective cut. They have held hands of the scissors indiscriminately regardless of the services or the people who would be affected by it. Minister, we would like to remind you that your Government has not only destroyed public employment but has also cut the rights of employees and employees of public administrations: it has stolen an extraordinary wage, has been freezing their salaries every year, has eliminated their permits, has called them vagos and, to the end, they have been eliminated from Muface's health care. The result of all these policies is that the staffing of public employees has been reduced and ageing, their purchasing power has been cut by 20% and their training and professional development has also been paralysed. Mr Montoro, in Spain we find this panorama in the public administration after three and a half years of government of the People's Party. Despite this and the destabilization to which they have been subjected, Minister, the public employees - I want to make it very clear from this rostrum - are responding with an unequivocal professionalism to ensure the provision of services to the citizens. This country has an extraordinary human capital in its public employees and the responsibility of politicians is to take advantage of it, treating it as they deserve, with equity and with sufficient resources at their disposal to carry out their work. They certainly have the recognition of my parliamentary group and deserve that of this whole House. Gentlemen of the Government and of the People's Parliamentary Group, a sustained policy over time is not compensated with patches to try to save face in the face of the elections. I have already told you that this will be a politically failed attempt, because it is too late and it is not enough. Today, according to the data of its own department, citizen satisfaction with public services is less than 44%; that is, it has been reduced by 20 points compared to 2011. You leave us a small inheritance, Mr. Montoro! One could not expect anything else when health centers are closed, doctors are fired, waiting lists are increased, classrooms are massified because there are no teachers, scholarships are cut, court fees are imposed, more than 160,000 people are left without aid to the unit... Minister, in this royal decree-law that today lead us to validate increases the offer of public employment in the sectors of combating tax and labour fraud, justice and local government. It foresees an additional increase of 724 places in these sectors. However, in order to regain the level of human resources in 2011 and the quality and effectiveness of the provision of services, your extraordinary offer should be much wider and extend to other sectors such as health, education, social services and care, where you continue to maintain the impossibility of replenishment. In any case, this extraordinary offer does not solve the enormous problems that have been created during these three years of People's Party government. In the fight against tax fraud, the Tax Agency, Mr Montoro, today has around 1,500 fewer employees than in 2011. It should also be noted that these limited resources are not used properly. 80 % of the workforce is responsible for the prosecution of small frauds and irregularities of self-employed people, workers and pensioners, which account for 30 % of the total, while only 20 % is responsible for the fraud of large corporations and large fortunes, which accounts for 70 %. In other words, not only do they approve of shameful fiscal amnesty, but they leave the persecution of the great defrauders without sufficient means; that is so, Mr Montoro. In the fight against labour fraud and social security, the Labour Inspectorate had 1,469 employees in December 2011 and, according to the latest published data, in 2014 they did not exceed 1,250. There are fewer labour inspectors and less sub-inspectors than ever before. Therefore, fewer centres are inspected, actions are reduced and visits are limited. Mr Minister, you bring us here today a partial and clearly insufficient correction of your own excesses; it does not even compensate by far for the ill-treatment suffered by public services and consequently by citizens, who use them. The Socialist Parliamentary Group considers that this royal decree does not meet the needs of the public administration and that it is far from a thorough rectification, as is the one that deserves the deterioration of the public services that the Government has caused these years. Even so, and despite the shortcomings I have pointed out, the Socialist Group, in line with what it has been demanding all these years, will not reject or disagree with the creation of public employment at all or in any way. I'm done. If I may, there is nothing more and better to deny the government's policy of all these years on public administration than this royal decree, Mr Montoro, plainly and plainly. You have put the letter - even if it is in lowercase and without admitting it - to the recognition of your own mistakes and we will be others - do not doubt them - those we have to correct in capital letters, that is, in depth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. Mrs Álvarez-Arenas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to start by thanking the Minister very sincerely on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and on my own behalf for his speech, for his clear and robust speech this morning on a matter that is truly very important. Thank you very much, Minister. I want to tell Mr Coscubiela that of course there is an answer. I don't think you or Mrs. Sumelzo have heard anything. Because I do not deviate from the time I have - because the important thing is the position and positive assessment that the People's Group makes of this royal decree - I will simply tell you one thing so that you understand a little bit of what this is about when you talk about dismissals or not in the public administration. You have set a perfect example, you have spoken of deforesting and planting pines; obviously. Do you know something? The mountains are healed and then reforested with new pine trees, to keep the forest alive and avoid its ruin and its disappearance, which is what you seem to want to do with Spain. For that is what the Minister has done and what this Government has done: to heal the forest, to plant new pine trees - we are on it - and to allow it to survive, not to sink, as it can in other countries, and to disappear. So, get this straight. Mrs Sumelzo, may you come to us here to talk about officials when Mrs Díaz, who is from your party if I am not mistaken - so far - has a firm judgment of the High Court of Justice of Andalusia that forces her to readmit some workers, and is in rebellion because she has not complied with it, has a lot of fabric, a lot of mariner fabric. [[Applauds]] ; when you in Andalusia pay the doctors 12 hours for the guards, and hire them for hours, ladies and gentlemen, contract well in precarious. Ask the doctors, the 7,000 who have fired, and the 4,000 teachers who have fired. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about what's important and what's serious this morning. That fiscal stability and financial sustainability are fundamental pillars for the reduction of the deficit and, therefore, to promote economic growth and job creation is no longer discussed by anyone with knowledge, honest knowledge and not electoral. Everyone already recognizes what has been the most profound change in direction and data of just a few months ago that we knew in Spain. While incomprehensible to some it bothers them, all the national and international agencies of analysis and forecasting argue that Spain's economic and labour reality is much better today, and above all that it has a tendency to continue in this line and even to increase it above the Government's forecasts, which, by the way, have never been breached but have always been surpassed upwards. The reforms and measures of the Government have been instruments for the Spanish society - which is truly the protagonist of this recovery, not without great sacrifices and efforts - to be able to regain its role and to be at the thresholds at which it stands. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in this context of confidence, stability and credibility of the Spanish economy it is possible and necessary to reforest the forest, to undertake actions that allow a more efficient allocation of public resources, of expenditure but also of public revenue, ladies and gentlemen, for what must be provided with the necessary legal framework and, of course, the material and, above all, human means, which is what we are talking about today, in order to be able to comply with it. In this regard, the current tax system and, in particular, the recent reform of the IRPF is progressing towards ensuring efficiency in the allocation of resources, which not only ensures the financial sustainability of public administrations, but also stimulates economic growth and job creation, making it possible to sustain and improve public services - health, education and social services - with particular attention to the most vulnerable. We have to adjust expenditure and we have to recover revenue by the means to which the Minister has referred and, of course, by what I shall say next. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this system needs to have the means to ensure its correct compliance. We all agree when we make big speeches about the importance of the fight against fraud, even though some of them are tingling. I have heard in this House sometimes: It is that the fraud that occurs by some is... poor! The origin of the fraud or the causes of the fraud have no justification. Fraud, ladies and gentlemen, and I say it very loud and clear, as the Minister has said, of which I am proud, is fought without exception on names, surnames, social classes, origins. Without exceptions, because it represents a drop in public income based on a great social injustice that affects the immense, the overwhelming majority of Spanish society that fulfils its obligations in both the tax and labour fields; for that reason again I am grateful for the clear intervention of the Minister. Of course, the People's Parliamentary Group welcomes the work of the Government in this area and on all its fronts. The result shows in the data the increase in collection in the fight against fraud. With regard to taxation, the Minister said, the increase was 12.49 % over the previous year. Similarly, with regard to the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, the infringements amounted to 9,827, an increase of 16,8 % over the previous year, with a further recovery, up to 257 million, by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which represents a 7.4 increase, and with outlying jobs, which did not, yes, add to the fact that it is an injustice for the worker and a fraud on the part of those who are using them. Ladies and gentlemen, the reduction of fraud, as we have said, means an increase in the public revenue needed for public administrations to be able to satisfy the general interests and also to allow the reduction of fiscal pressure, which undoubtedly, and we are convinced of, generates economic growth and employment. That is why we will all agree on the importance of continuing to move forward in this direction in order to combat circumvention and fraud, both in tax and in labour matters, so it is certainly necessary to rely - as has been said earlier - on personal means. Mr. Hook, I'm going to speak clearly here because you've talked a lot about tax amnesty. Let's see if we need it. There has been no fiscal amnesty here; there has been fiscal regularization. Fiscal amnesty existed with socialist governments; and precisely because there was a fiscal amnesty it had no transparency or consequences to clarify the origin of those funds that were being amnestyed. We didn't know anything about it, and now it's not the case, whoever did it. These are important differences that citizens know how to appreciate, no doubt. In the parliamentary group we consider very positive this opportune decree that modifies upwards the replacement rate that was established in the 2015 budgets, which was 50% and that, at this time, as the Minister said and I will not stop at it, it focuses on the officials of the local administration, with national authorization; in the field of tax fraud and expenditure control, all this in the matter of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations and the Tax Agency; on Social Security and the Labour Inspectorate with 150 places; and on the Administration of Justice with 160 for the Judicial Secretary Corps. All this - it has also been said here and I am pleased that the representative of the Convergence i Unió group has acknowledged this - with a reserve quota of 7% for persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, although one of the most valued parameters in an economy is legal certainty, which offers confidence and stability, it is true that the enforcement of the law is the responsibility of the courts, judges and courts; but the role of the judicial secretaries is undoubtedly fundamental, and that the judicial office functions agile and correctly is very important for the processes in which individuals and businesses are brought in. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we also welcome this increase in the number of judicial secretaries who are going to contribute, together with the fight against labour and tax fraud, to speed up these very important issues. From the People's Parliamentary Group we are going to validate this royal decree, which is undoubtedly adapted to what the Constitutional Court has pointed out on several occasions. Mrs Sayós, in different situations and you can see this, those signals that the Constitutional Court has made indicate that it is up to the Government to assess the most appropriate time or economic situation for adopting measures of general economic policy, with the adoption of legislative provisions - this is the case - provisional - have already been put in place - and of immediate effectiveness by means of a real decree-law, as is the case that we are dealing with and that we are going to validate today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also going to validate it from the Group of the European People's Party, because this is another instrument for advancing the efficiency of public administrations, which adds to so many measures and reforms promoted by this Government from the very beginning of its responsibility to move towards the priority objective of economic growth and job creation. Without a doubt, the best social policy - you cannot discuss it - is one that supports our welfare society and quality and efficient public services for all, and in a very special way for the most vulnerable. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u16	Let's move on to the amendments approved by the Senate. As this bill is organic in nature, I will say that there will be no votes until six and a half. However, I am not very sure that the time is not quite later; but, of course, not before 6:30. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act and the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary to transpose Directive 2010/64/EU of 20 October 2010 on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/13/EU of 22 May 2012 on the right to information in criminal proceedings. Firstly, Mr Esteban has the floor on behalf of the Basque Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll step in from the seat. The purpose of this law is to transpose two directives and we must recognise that, in the process of the Senate, there has been some improvement, through some amendments, such as the recognition of the language of signs, not only of the language of signs of the Spanish State but also of a different one that exists in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. We also agree with the mention that the interpreter or translator must respect the confidentiality of the service provided, the establishment of means of supporting oral communication to persons with sensory disabilities or, for example, the training of judges, prosecutors and staff at the service of the Administration who participate in criminal proceedings to pay attention to the particularities of communication through an interpreter. However, there is an obstacle, in our insurmountable opinion, that prevents us from supporting this law, and I am referring to what is going to be the first final provision: the establishment of an official register of State-owned translators and judicial interpreters unique to the whole State. In this case, the powers of the autonomous statutes are violated, in the case of the Basque Country Community, the powers provided for in Chapter III in the field of personnel and material means in the service of justice. Moreover - if it were not enough for this reason to absorb powers that are not its own and that for some autonomous communities that have their own language is a very sensitive matter - unfortunately this adaptation of the directives has not been used to standardize the use of co-official languages in the field of the Administration of Justice, for example, by requiring as a requirement in the access of places to judicial bodies located in those communities, that these people dominate those languages, overcoming the merit condition that they currently have. If we really want the courts to be able to properly conduct these trials in which languages other than Spanish are used, it would be logical not only to go beyond what interpreters are, but also to have the members of the court, the judges themselves, dominate those languages in the obvious case of the other official languages of the State. That has not been the case and, therefore, although we can vote in favour of some of those amendments that I have already mentioned, in the final overall debate on the draft, our vote will be against. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to intervene briefly, just to say that we agree with the technical improvement work that has been done in the Senate for the implementation of the directives in this law. Moreover, our political position has not changed substantially from what we had in the debate and we will maintain the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are invited to a table where justice is a fundamental part of the dishes. The first course has to do with something as technical as interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings, and this allows me to make a first assessment of the initiatives that we are going to see today: the right of interpretation and translation - transposition of a directive -, the status of the victim, civil prosecution, amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. In this tumult of initiatives something will be made clear. The only thing that can be made clear and that is already seen in this reform of the aspect of the organic law on the interpretation and translation of criminal proceedings is that of the Government in the area of justice. We could say that throughout this parliamentary term the Government has been interested in justice something very different from what is of interest to citizens, to potential litigants, and also something quite different from what is of interest to legal operators. The Government is interested - also in this initiative - in power and the market, essentially that: power - again the Organic Law of the Judiciary to see who can influence justice and its independence - and the market, because justice for the Government is not a public service, but a method to create new private markets around the right to effective judicial protection that, in our view, is undermined. This very technical initiative makes it possible to see these attitudes of the Government, because the Community directive seeks the reliability in the criminal proceedings of translation and interpretation. It's something as simple as that. The government in this transposition of the directive shows its true face in these matters. First of all, we can say that the government shows its Europeanism in terms of a Community directive, because this Community directive is transposed out of time, with a threat of sanction on the part of the European Union, and not content with it, in the very initiative that transposes the European directive we propose a legal holiday that leaves us completely out of the time of the sanction and extension. Good way to respect European standards! I have heard during the last few days, particularly with regard to Syriza and the Greek Government, that the rules must be complied with. Well, this government complies with the rules in austerity, but when it comes to meeting the deadline for a Community directive which, on the other hand, it does not like, it does not meet the rules even within the deadline. We are therefore late, but the worst is that we are wrong, because this directive, which seeks the reliability in criminal proceedings of translation and interpretation, which has much to do with the right of defence, with effective judicial protection, is once again a failed initiative. The government's own legislative initiative says that in order to implement translation and interpretation - which is theoretically a service that seeks the best quality of justice - there will be no more than one euro. The Government argues that this is done without a budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not serious that this restriction should be raised, although it is a minor restriction within what the Government intends in this legal initiative. The two fundamental aspects of the directive were, first, to have a reliable translation, a register of translators and interpreters. Well, the Government considers - it has said so to the rapporteurs - that it is not the subject of this initiative which transposes a directive on the registration of interpreters and translators, the registration. It leaves us unregistered and says that the registration will take place in a subsequent legislative development. Do you see any more absurd than this? The absurdity has not yet ended, because the General Council of the Judiciary itself and the Council of State itself recommend to the Government that for the implementation of this register the most objective is that there be an examination, which in addition have proposed to it all the chairs of the Spanish universities that have to do with translation and interpretation. Neither is there going to be a record, nor is there going to be a test. You will say: we transpose a directive late, we do not contemplate the registration of translators and interpreters, nor does the objective criterion for that registration, which can only be an examination, so why does the government transpose the directive? For a formal enforcement of late and bad transposition and, on the other hand, for an unacceptable legalization of a chapuza, which are sub-contracts in the field of translation and interpretation. Because it is true that the government does not establish registration or examination, but it does establish certain indeterminate aspects - how curious, in justice the indeterminate is the norm! - so that the subcontracts of translation and interpretation, which today do business of such a delicate matter in the defense and in the criminal proceedings of the justice. This is where these subcontracts are carved into the law of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, in the event that this is not enough, in the event that the Government also establishes a rule whereby, if there is a reason for urgency, this transposition of the directive will not have to be complied with at all, if there is a reason for urgency at last, this law does not apply at all. And as in the Spanish justice system, because of the lack of resources, of means in judicial proceedings, urgency is the norm, in the end the norm has been emptied; the government empties it from the budgetary point of view, from the normative point of view and also empties it with a procedure that is to skip the norm through urgency. That is ultimately the draft that we have to discuss today and the amendments that come from the Senate, which are all technical amendments. We could say: a problem has been saved in the Senate, which has to do with the competition issue, those autonomous communities that have their own language. But it has been saved in a way that eventually turns the law into wet paper. Do you know how they do it? Excluding the translation and interpretation of the right of defence and converting an organic law into a normal law. Ladies and gentlemen, for this trip, we didn't need saddlebags. I'm done. Justice is not the priority of the Government, it is obvious. The Government has two priorities: one is how it interferes with justice and another is how it turns a public service into a private business. But mocking a Community directive and mocking this House, I think it is too much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. For the Catalan Group, Mr Jané has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief because today the plenary comes with a lot of points and what we do not extend in the morning at the end will be appreciated at the last hour of the afternoon. I will speak briefly because it is also the third debate we have on this bill at the plenary session of the House. Unfortunately, we have lost an opportunity in this bill to seek the necessary consensus, even with the collective of interpreters. We have received all the speakers from the Vertice Network itself of associations of translators, proofreaders and interpreters, complaints about technical solutions that in the transposition of this directive carry out this bill improperly and that the various parliamentary groups have already been able to move in the form of amendments to the article, although not all of them have been incorporated. We therefore regret this lack of consensus. We are grateful - and I would like to highlight it and thank the rapporteurs of the People's Parliamentary Group - for the sensitivity they had had in accepting eight specific amendments in the Congress procedure that Convergence i Unified proposals by Cermi, aimed at more adequately collecting the rights of deaf people. We have made progress in this area and we appreciate it. That is why we want it to appear in the "Diary of Sessions". But it is not enough because there is a nuclear, competitive, important element that we have warned myself and Mr Olabarría in his day to the Minister of Justice. He told us no, but practical reality shows us yes. We were told that we did not worry about the single register of interpreters and translators because this did not violate the competences of the autonomous communities to create their own registers, because the autonomous communities also have to create their registers if they are competent, as is Catalonia, and the Statute of Catalonia of 2006, endorsed in this case by the Constitutional Court, clearly recognizes this competence in the field of the Administration of Justice in personal and material means. Well, that competence in the Administration of Justice has a transfer in what should be the registration of translators and judicial interpreters in the field of Catalonia. We were critical of how this bill - Mr. Llamazares alluded to this - does not take place. It does not develop, but it is aimed at a single register that will be applied to give content to the forecasts of this bill and of the Community directives that we transpose late and badly. Well, the Generalitat de Catalunya approves Decree-Law 8/2014 of 23 December, establishing a register of translators and judicial interpreters for their performance before the judicial bodies based in Catalonia. If there were to be no competition problems, this decree-law already published in the BOE should be accepted as a normal development of a composite State in which the competent autonomous communities have the possibility to create such a register. For the Government has already announced the possible challenge of this decree-law of the Generalitat and has opened - through article 33 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which allows for a negotiation - a negotiation of six months, but in fact the intention of the Government is already to appeal to the Constitution this decree-law that creates the registration within the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. We regret that this is the case. Let us hope that with that six-month negotiation we can come to an agreement, but we fear the worst. We regret that those initial intentions that we were already seeing when the bill that will be passed today was finally aimed at that single register, those predictions of violating autonomous powers can finally be carried out. Therefore, this bill, as we have already warned in the previous debates, will not be able to be voted affirmatively by Convergence i Unió. We regret it because there are positive aspects, we regret it because it develops Community directives, we regret it because on some points we have technically improved the draft law and we also regret that we have not achieved that consensus with the representatives of the interpreters sector, who were also asking us to do so. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, Mr Martín Peré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. With the debate on this bill, I must recall a rather anomalous situation that has already taken place in the first debate in this House, and it is that, being a fundamentally technical rule, the vast majority of groups that make up the opposition abstained or voted against this bill, and that was because the disdain and disdain with which the Government had transposed the two directives that this bill is about were so great, that the rest of the groups that we make up this House refused to take part in this demeanor. We all agreed on the need for the enactment of this bill and the transposition of the two directives, but, as I said, the technical invoice of the text that was coming to us made us all agree not to support it. [[The lady]] The truth is that in a bicameral system like ours, in which we have a second reading chamber such as the Senate, which could often establish the function of amending and resolving those texts that came out of Congress and that did not respond to all the legislative needs they seek, such as the draft in question, there is the circumstance that in this case the Senate has served, if I may say so, for a washing and hairstyle, but for a subject who still has the same face. That means that in this case my group will have to abstain again in a vote on the whole of the draft, which should not initially be the case, because I insist that the need to transpose these two directives is something that is out of the question. Specifically, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote against two amendments that have been adopted in the Senate. The first refers to the amendment of section 124 of the Criminal Procedure Act. As the speakers who have spoken before me have explained very well, there is a key aspect to this bill, which is the official record of translators and interpreters. In Article 124 you - I refer to the People's Party, of course - continue to refer to the publication of official lists according to the competent administration, when both the directives themselves which are transposed and the nature of this law make it essential to mention the official register of translators and interpreters. For that reason, on a point of congruence with what we argued in the first parliamentary debate on this bill, we will vote against the text of article 124 that comes to us from the Senate. The second amendment that comes from the Senate and to which we will also vote against is the one that refers to the creation of the new final provision first, and we will do so for three reasons. Firstly, because, in view of what is a reference - this time yes - to the creation of an official register of translators and interpreters, what you do is refer to the enactment of a future law or to a future bill within a maximum period of one year to be presented in this House, with the consequent processing that should follow, and this seems to us to be an unacceptable time frame. At the time, we have already proposed that in any case, this House should not be dealing with that bill within a maximum of three months, and we continue to think so. That would be the first reason why we would vote against that final provision. The second reason is that, if what this law really seeks is to guarantee the rights of any person who has to take part in a judicial, procedural or criminal proceeding in our country with a language other than his or her own - let us in case any of us or citizens who may be listening to this debate have to be part of a criminal proceeding in Germany or Italy - I imagine that that person would want to have the maximum possible guarantees with regard to the translation and interpretation of what is explained to him or her and of what she also says. Therefore, the only way we understand that we have to guarantee that right to a defence which undoubtedly assists such persons is that one of the functions of the official register of translators and interpreters is to control the academic training and the qualification of those persons who must be registered, because it is the only way that we can guarantee, as I said, that right which assists them to have a correct translation and interpretation. That should be one of the functions of the register, and we did so or mentioned it in the amendment that we tabled and that you have completely ignored. The third reason why we are not going to vote in favour of this final provision is because, as other speakers who have spoken before me have also commented, you are again incurring a question that could even have a vice of unconstitutionality, such as the fact that you are entering a field in which the autonomous communities have competences, especially those that have transferred jurisdiction of justice, and you are talking about a single register, and that is an issue that, I insist, can lead us to problems. I would like once again to mention that it is clear to me that the rapporteurs of the People's Party, at least in the process of the Congress of Deputies, have made every effort to try to improve the text, but in this case my Socialist Parliamentary Group blames the Government, as we did in the first debate and we do now. I want to conclude - because I think it is a good metaphor of what this text implies - with a phrase that is attributed to Einstein according to which for him the definition of madness was to pretend to change things by doing the same. In this particular case, except for the washing and hairstyle that said that we come from the Senate to this bill, it continues to run into the same vices that make my group unable to support it. We are therefore not going to take part in this insanity of the Government and are going to abstain in the vote on the whole project. We will not vote against it because my group, with some exception, has never voted against the transposition of European directives in all these years. Otherwise it would not have been a transposition, this text deserved to be voted against. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u26	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to defend the adoption of the Senate amendments to the draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act and the Organic Law on the Judiciary as a result of the transposition of two directives on the right of interpretation and translation into criminal proceedings, entering today the last parliamentary stage to proceed with that final approval in this House. First of all, I would like to point out that what we are finally adopting today is not a global amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act or the Organic Judiciary Act, but only a very specific aspect of both legal texts which affects the right of interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings as a result, I insist, of the transposition of two European directives. During this parliamentary process, some parliamentary groups have sought to go beyond the objective of this directive in order to try to introduce through the back door amendments to aspects of the Criminal Procedure Act or the Organic Law of the Judiciary or even the Criminal Code which had little or nothing to do with the European directives to be transposed. Today we put to the vote the final adoption of that text with the Senate amendments. It is a text that, before entering the amendments, is of particular importance because it strengthens the guarantees of the criminal process, strengthening the Spanish criminal procedure, one of the most guarantors in the world. It is a draft law that, throughout the parliamentary process, has been receiving amendments from various parliamentary groups that have undoubtedly enriched and improved the text, especially from a technical point of view, positive contributions that undoubtedly gave greater technical and legal precision to it. Among the most notable aspects of this draft law, apart from the definition of the guarantees that are established for any person who sees or may be involved in criminal proceedings, we must also highlight the explicit mandate of the Government to create within one year - a period that is in no way to be exhausted - an official register of translators and judicial interpreters, a register that was a demand in the collective and that this draft law, which we are now submitting to its final adoption, reflects in this regard. Let us remember that this law does not regulate such a national registry, but rather announces its creation or rather its regulation within a maximum period of one year, which I insist, is a period that does not have to be exhausted, and it will be that future regulation that develops it, respecting the competition field, of course. I do not know where the contrary can be deduced from, since the fact that it has to be regulated about being registered does not in any way imply that the area of competition is not respected. It must be borne in mind, however, that, in accordance with articles 149.1.5a and 149.1.6a of the Spanish Constitution, the State has exclusive jurisdiction over the administration of justice and procedural legislation. This is the case, whether or not some parliamentary groups like it. The autonomous communities obviously have their powers, but the State too, and therefore respect for the competition principle, must be mutual and reciprocal and not only one-way, as the nationalist parliamentary groups claim. In this regard, we cannot forget something that seems quite reasonable even for a person who can have a thought from the nationalist orbit, and it seems quite reasonable that the creation of an official register of translators, interpreters and experts is also based on the need to guarantee the equal conditions of all citizens in the exercise of their rights and, in the specific case on which we are legislating, to ensure that a basic service for the protection of the right of defence and of the right to a fair trial is carried out with minimum quality requirements throughout the national territory, minimum requirements ranging from compulsory registration, qualification or training requirements, to put just a few examples. Only through a national registration system can it be ensured that the public translation and interpretation service will be provided under the same basic conditions for all citizens throughout Spain. This does not prevent, I insist, the registration cannot be organized territorially or that its subsequent management and the specific provision of the service must be of shared ownership. The existence of an official register of a national character does not imply any violation of the competences of the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, there is no logic to such a fear or suspicion about an issue that we believe is clear, so the political stance of some parliamentary groups on this issue responds more to the fact that they are in permanent electoral campaign than to reality. If the law that will be submitted for final approval refers to the regulation of this registry, it must be that regulation and not that law that governs the operation of it, because such regulation is the exclusive competence of the State and not of the autonomous communities. I shall briefly enter into the specific amendments which we shall be putting to the vote and by procedural economy and which our parliamentary group will vote in favour. The bulk of them responds, on the one hand, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to a technical improvement in the text, both those negotiated with the various parliamentary groups and those presented by our parliamentary group. They are amendments aimed at clarifying or strengthening also the guarantees and the right of defence of suspects or accused persons with sensory disabilities, or as is the fact that the interpreter or translator must keep the duty of confidentiality. On the other hand, another block of amendments aimed at preserving the principle of legal certainty has also been included, especially with regard to setting a certain date for the entry into force of the precepts contained in this law, which, I insist, gives it greater legal certainty. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and to conclude my speech, I would like to thank the constructive tone and contributions of the vast majority of parliamentary groups to this text, a text that serves to improve the guarantees that surround or may surround a person who may be involved in criminal proceedings. With the Senate amendments that will be put to the vote today for the final adoption of the text, we are giving the green light to a law that is a further step in the European type-approval of the protection of procedural rights in the various countries that make up the European Union and that means a new step forward in this project of success that represents the European Union. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u28	Thank you, Mr Serrano. - Draft law on the status of the victim of the crime. [[File number 121/00115]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u29	We turn to the next issue, which is the Senate's amendments to the bill on the status of the victim of the crime. For the defence and fixing of positions, first of all, by the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u30	Thank you, Madam President. We hoped that the Senate process would address a number of issues that were very important to us in terms of the direction of this bill, issues that we have already raised in Congress. They will agree with me that the debate on the status of victims, everything related to them, is often glassy because they seek indirect and interested interpretations of the differentiated political positions of the majority - usually the one supported by the Government - that may have other political groups, either to obtain political revenues or to erode political positions. Our position on this project is based on a calm reflection on the subject and of course on a position of support for the victims, but also on an objective and classical conception of criminal law, because I insist that this is a subject very much given to positions and images. A very short time ago, just when the legal limit for pre-lessons propaganda was over, we have seen how, for example, the President of the Government has gone to place the first stone of the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism in Vitoria-Gasteiz. Well, there is no project or stone because the building is empty; moreover, there is not even the plaque left, because the same, which was by the way monolingual - it did not comply with the bilingual legislation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country - disappeared at half an hour. A scuba man went there and took it out half an hour after the president of the government had placed it. An opening of what? The victims, the memorial and the Government's commitment would then be discussed, but that commitment is often a mere image. This project is positive in many areas, but in some others it is criticizing precisely because the Government has been breaking basic concepts in criminal law to look for its image and its propaganda. What do I mean? We are very concerned - we said it already in the process of Congress and we were not the only group - how article 13 of this bill is configured, because in our opinion it attributes to the victims exorbitant possibilities of action that refer to their participation in the criminal proceedings of their victims. According to this article, the participation of the victim in the execution phase, on the one hand, is not bound by the development of any European legislation; on the other hand, we do not know the comparative right in which it arises, as is done in this article 13; and on the other hand, it causes a series of interferences in the Spanish penal and prison system itself. Article 13 creates instruments to condition what the preamble of the law describes as a state monopoly for the enforcement of sentences. Well, that state monopoly is broken, despite what the preamble says, by article 13, because it can seriously compromise, even, the fulfilment of the constitutional purposes attributed to the penalty by article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution. If the implementation of this project involved more denials of prison benefits, it is clear that it would have a negative impact on the expectations of reinsertion of the sentence and the constitutional purposes of the sentence are set out very clearly, as I have said, in article 25. Moreover, the Council of State itself, when discussing this article, mentions in its report an order from the Constitutional Court of 3 July 1989, in which - I read in text - it is said: the way in which the sentence is served escapes the interest of the accuser in the case from which the sentence derives, insofar as the right to punish, ius puniendi, is held exclusively by the State. One thing is the right to be informed of absolutely all the steps taken by the justice system and the relevant ministry - and that should be perfectly reflected in the law - and another thing is that it can condition the decisions taken by the justice system to the point of urging the prosecution to adopt measures or rules of conduct that the victims themselves consider necessary to ensure their safety, almost privatizing the functions of the prosecution. In short, a clear emphasis is placed on retributive justice in this project and the restorative justice that many victim associations claim is left out of it. Article 15, which speaks of restorative justice, has many conditions spelled out in the text of the law so that that step can be taken. Our amendments sought that this restorative justice could be possible in a greater number of circumstances and in the will of the victims and the victims, but it has not been possible because they have not been dealt with either in the process of Congress or in the process of the Senate. Restorative justice does not constitute any occurrence of this parliamentary group; it is set out in Directive 2012/29 of the European Union. This bill also excludes the victim-victim mediation instrument. On the other hand, in our view, victims'associations are given a privileged position in criminal proceedings that has no parallel in comparative law. Among other things, as we well know, in criminal law the status of victim is closely linked to its status as a natural person and not as an association for procedural purposes; we therefore believe that this wording is also a mistake. We understand that there are some other articles that to effectively protect the victim are interesting, especially in the area of the right to information that victims have and that so far on many occasions it has been obscured when making decisions without being informed at any time. However, the role of conditionality given to victims, especially by looking at retributive justice, breaks our view of the fees of criminal law, and not only that, but also of the constitutional principles set out in article 25 of the Constitution. Furthermore, the competence of the autonomous communities is not preserved so that the regulatory development of the law can leave room for the autonomous communities with jurisdiction in the field of justice to regulate, for example, the functioning of justice services to support and assist victims. This should be possible and, as it is drafted today, the law does not make it possible. Another example is the implementation of protocols for the training of professionals, which should be carried out by the autonomous communities themselves. As a final conclusion, I will say that the amendments accepted in the Senate little or nothing incorporate into the draft. We welcome the amendment made in article 14 to the effect that the victim must be economically compensated first rather than the State and that preferential option is made. However, the rest of the modifications that are made in some articles are practically mere grammatical or style corrections that do not go beyond. Therefore, let us disagree in some parts of this law from a position of defense of the victims, but also orthodox with the fulfilment of the constitutional principles and the canons of criminal law. We express our very clear discrepancy with Article 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u31	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u32	I'm done. I've got six seconds left. No, I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u33	Well, don't lose it. There's nothing left, but I'll give you the six seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u34	In conclusion, Madam President, I said that we regret that restorative justice has not been given more weight instead of focusing this project solely on retributive justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u35	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u36	Thank you, President. Today we are before a law, before the final process of a law that we said at the time of the debate in this House, before moving to the Senate, that it was an important law both because of its content and its meaning. The content is important, but even more so is the collective to which it is directed fundamentally; that, in our view, is what gives greater relevance to the act that we are celebrating today when we adopt this law. Naturally, as any legislative initiative is better, it would have been better, there are some issues that we raised in the debate in the Committee, some amendments that came to the Senate - not on the part of our group, that we are not there - that have been debated and that have not been accepted, some improvements that would probably have given a greater guarantee to the text that is approved today, some gaps, some gaps that have not been wanted or could not be filled; for example, our group would have liked to have used this law to solve a problem that we have with the victims, a problem that has democracy, and it is the replenishment of the rights of the victims of terrorism displaced outside of Navarre and the Basque Country to be able to vote in the autonomous elections, to be able to vote in Basque and Navarre because they left there because they were victims of terrorism. That debate is also open in Spain. The Government proposed that this right should be recovered and that the exiles, who had had to leave their land precisely because they were threatened and persecuted by ETA, would be returned, but we have not been able to resolve it in this legislature, we have not been able or wanted to incorporate into this law. It is an act of reparation that our group would have liked to have been incorporated. Moreover, the changes that have been made in the Senate are not silent, they are some modifications of the Senate, which has become or is a second reading chamber, it is a further demonstration that this procedure has not been used to do some important things that could have been done there by incorporating some necessary reforms. I conclude by referring to the controversial article 13 which was quoted in the initial procedure and which has been quoted again at this time. It seems to this parliamentary group that there has been a slight improvement in the Senate, but it has been improved. I know who thinks the opposite, we've heard it and we'll hear it. In the previous debate there was essentially - but not only - a complaint from the Socialist Group that this article should disappear and that, if it did not disappear, the prosecutor would have the last word. There has been much debate about what this article represents; right now the spokesman for the Basque Group has made some assessment in this regard. I know that it is a question of balancing, as it cannot be otherwise, the right to reintegration of victims with the right to reparation of victims; they are two rights that must be kept alive and two rights that must be balanced. I believe that with the current text they are balanced; it is the opinion of our parliamentary group. Can this balance be better done? Can it be better solved from a legal perspective? Maybe. In our view, from a legal perspective it is sufficiently resolved and from a political perspective it is well resolved. Having said all this, Madam President, I repeat what I said at the beginning of the speech: we are at a very positive time from the perspective of the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy on what is our obligation to the victims of terrorism; we are at a good time, on a good day to repair history and to repair the pain of the victims of terrorism; and we are faced with a very important law in this regard, an important law for its content and meaning. Let me put it another way, it is much more important because of its meaning than because of its content, and also my appreciation is that its content is not contrary to its meaning. I remain with the meaning and humbly congratulate myself on having contributed by being a Member of this House to the progress of this law. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. By the Plural Left, Mr. Llamazares.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thirteen amendments have been tabled, all of them technical corrections, which in our view neither substantially nor relatively modify the text of the proposal for a law that was already coming out of the Congress of Deputies. We are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, as other speakers have said, an important debate, that of the status of the victim, but also contradictory, because there are other actors; the victim is very important, but there are other actors in the criminal proceedings. For many, the absence of a victim's status in our country has been offset by the fact that the victim is involved in criminal proceedings, which is much broader in Spain than in our environment, whether as a private accuser, as a popular accuser, as a civil actor, institutions that do not exist in our judicial environment. Apart from this, the truth is that, paraphrasing Reyes Mate, the victims have come to this process to stay, and they must be made hollow. Our parliamentary group has defended a worthy presence of the victims in the criminal process, but not an omnipresent presence; a balanced and balanced presence with regard to the classic subjects of the accusatory process, the judge and the accused; a presence respectful of the rights and guarantees of the offender. That presence, indeed, requires important regulation - complicated, in our view - in a process designed in terms of remuneration, hence the advantage of the introduction of intra-judicial criminal mediation. The victim's intervention in the trial until the sentence must give him all the protagonists that deserve the damage and pain suffered, no doubt. But, once the fair trial has been followed, the sentence has been handed down, which can also be appealed even without having previously been personified in the proceedings, and the enforcement has become firm, the avatars should remain the exclusive power of the State, in order to seek and ensure its exercise, without losing sight of the constitutionally recognized purpose of sentences and measures of deprivation of liberty, which is nothing other than that of the reinsertion of the sentenced person. Victims have the right to be informed and protected in the execution process, but this cannot be extended to the right to determine whether or not a permit, step-by-step or any other legal situation affecting the execution of the sentence, which is the power of the State, is applicable. In our view, excessive intervention at this stage may compromise the fulfilment of the constitutionally recognized purposes of custodial sentences and security measures, the resocialization of the convicted person, which challenge and link the State, society and not individuals. In this sense, references to restorative justice in relation to a criminal law, which transposes a European directive dealing with criminal mediation, can only be seen as positive. However, the bill maintains a timid and restrictive view of restorative or restorative justice. The draft law legalizes the principles of mediation, such as voluntariness, impartiality and, in particular, confidentiality, however it establishes requirements for carrying out mediation which, in our view, are restrictive: obvious ones, which are not prohibited, and imprecise ones, which do not entail risks to the safety of the victim. It seems that there is an unjustified fear that mediation will cause further moral damage to the victim, a revictimization, without repairing that sometimes an excess of protection can lead precisely to the revictimization that is to be avoided. I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, two articles which for us have come to tarnish this victim's status without any justification. Article 13, which our parliamentary group has amended in this House and in the Senate, essentially proposes that victims should have the right to intervene in the regime for the enforcement of custodial sentences in a two-way manner. For us, in order to challenge certain judicial decisions in the execution phase, the order by which the prison supervisory judge authorizes the classification of the sentenced person to a third degree before half of the sentence is extinguished, the order granting prison benefits, the parole order and, on the other hand, the order also legitimizing the request that certain measures or lines of conduct be imposed on the parolee. This is a precept rigorously questioned by the Council of State in its report, which calls it questionable and invites the pre-legislator to consider not using this legislative option. The reasons for the deletion of article 13 are as follows: firstly, that the directive does not oblige it; secondly, that there is no support in the jurisprudence of our Constitutional Court or of the European courts, but quite the contrary; thirdly, that the statement of reasons does not provide a justification for this measure, a measure extending the legitimacy of the victims and contrary to the provisions of the Organic Law of the Judiciary which restricts it to the prosecutor's office and to the inmate or conditionally released, who must, in any case, have legal assistance. In our opinion, it limits the observance of the principle of legality in the execution phase, which is a function assumed by the prosecutor's office and comes to interfere with the tasks of the prosecutor's office. Moreover, it compromises the rules and practices of prisons that have not been questioned by anyone since 1979 in this respect, either by doctrine, by jurisprudence or by the Administration. The protection due to the rights and interests of victims, the trust and collaboration of victims in the criminal justice system is not achieved by giving them missions that in a State governed by law are the responsibility of other State bodies specifically created for this purpose, nor by generating unnecessary burdens or immoderate expectations. That trust, which the pre-legislator wanted, was to care for her, listen to her, inform her, protect her and, finally, accompany her and support her on the road to the recovery of the balance lost as a result of the crime, not to generate such distortions or expectations. With regard to article 35, in our view, it is a distortion of the Gender Violence Act, which also discourages complaints in persons affected by gender violence, such as the return of aid to victims of violence who do not receive a conviction from their aggressor; a return which, in our view, is clearly excessive and clearly dissuasive and which has led the equality movement, the feminist movement, to reject article 35. These reasons, ladies and gentlemen, are those relating, on the one hand, to the agreement with the statute; but, on the other hand, the reservations to article 13 and article 35, which are, in our view, unnecessary and excessive, will lead us to abstain in relation to the amendments that come from the Senate, although we are aware that they are not substantial amendments and that they are essentially corrections to errors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u39	Thank you, Mr. Llamazares. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Jané.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start my speech with a triple thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Senate for introducing some amendment, although most of them are technical or grammatical corrections, but thanks to the fact that the Senate has finally introduced some amendment to a bill of significance, such as the status of victims of crime, it has a debate before the plenary of the House. No one tabled an amendment in its entirety, so we did not have a full debate and was therefore dealt with in the Commission with full legislative competence. It was the Convergence and Union Group that asked this plenary to allow the debate to be called before the plenary and we were told no. We are therefore fortunate that the Senate has introduced amendments because, finally, we have this debate in plenary, at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, an important law. The second thanks go to the Minister of Justice because I know that he wants to be present in this debate in order to highlight a law that goes beyond what we can go on to legislate in each of the projects. Today is a day when we are going to legislate a lot, as we have several legislative initiatives in this House. However, we are all aware that this is a law that goes beyond because it wants to have that solemn, restorative function of giving that status to the victim of the crime. I would also like to thank the presence in the rostrum of representatives of various associations of victims of crime. If I may, in particular, I would like to thank you, since I was the first spokesman in this House of the Committee on Road Safety, for the presence here today of representatives of associations of victims of traffic accidents, such as Mrs Mar Cogollos, of Aesleme, representing the spinal cord injuries, who sent me a WhatsApp saying that it is above, as well as so many other associations that have fought for road safety, helping us to become aware of the situation of victims of traffic accidents. I would like to thank all of them for their presence here today in the Congress of Deputies. I would also like to thank the various rapporteurs for the work they have done, in particular Mrs Quintanilla, who has made a special effort in this draft law. However, I have to regret that in some significant aspect, in which we understood that we could have built a greater consensus, it has not been possible. Very clearly and very directly, as Mr Esteban said, in Article 13. Article 13, as introduced in the bill, was a mistake, not because the Basque Group or the Convergence Group united; it was and is an error because even the General Council of the Judiciary said it; a vowel like Mrs. Roser Bach, to which Don Lucas Murillo and Mrs. Pigem adhered. Several members spoke in the report of the General Council of the Judiciary against this article 13. Convergència i Unió also did so in the accelerated and hasty process that we experienced when the bill was passed with full legislative competence in the Commission of Justice. We highlighted it. We called for the deletion of article 13 and even invited the majority group to seek a consensus solution. We know that it is difficult to find the always necessary balance between full reparation for the victims but also the constitutional objectives of reintegration, which are set out in article 25 and which oblige us all. Obviously, as expected, this action by the victim in the criminal execution departs from this principle of comprehensive care for victims as a remedial and non-revictimizing process. We understand that as stated in article 13 it is an error that can generate unnecessary alarms, enhance the feeling of fear and defence, as well as feelings of revenge, while interfering with and damaging the processes and programmes of reintegration and rehabilitation of convicted persons. Furthermore, this Article 13 is not imposed by Community directives. Someone might say that this intervention in criminal execution is an imperative that comes from the directive, but I have been looking at Directive 2012/29 of the European Union over and over again and I cannot find in any way that necessary intervention as provided for in Article 13, because it could have been provided for differently. We didn't know how to find him. Therefore, it does not meet a requirement of the European directives and it departs, in this case, from that principle which we believe should prevail in a law to which we want to give the value it has; an important law, a law which is globally in line with what is required of us by the European directives; a law which starts with a broad concept of victim for any crime and whatever the nature of the physical, moral or material damage which has been irrogated to it. It includes the direct victim but also indirect victims, such as relatives or assimilations. We therefore once again regret that article 13 which has broken a consensus that could have been even broader and necessary. When we talk about victims we are talking about victims of any kind of crime, and I do not want to stop referring to the victims of certain crimes that some of us have described as road violence. These crimes, Minister, will suffer an inadequate transmutation from the last Penal Code that has been approved and that if no one remedys it will come into force next July. In the new Criminal Code, certain conducts of road violence that were treated with crime will be removed from the criminal justice system and will be taken into consideration in another way. There will be no more faults in this area - there will be a decriminalisation of faults - and this will cause damage to these victims in terms of road safety, who are calling for a different solution. Not everything is merely a civil reparation, although we must welcome the fact that, finally - and I thank you, Minister - we have passed the draft law on the accidents of victims of trafficking; not everything is civil reparation. There was a criminal connotation in some very serious cases that may be difficult with the adoption of the new Criminal Code, so we understand that in this area it has not gone in the proper direction that we had printed in previous legislatures. But I also do not want this negative comment to move us away from what is a positive day with the adoption of an important law such as the status of the victim of the crime. We therefore give him the courage he has in compiling into a text those guarantees towards the victims. We are going to support the various amendments that the Senate has introduced - they are technical improvements - but we are not going to vote affirmatively on the amendment to Article 13, not because it is not a technical or grammatical improvement that has been made to the said article, but symbolically that vote will serve us to explain once again that in that particular article we are against it. We will therefore vote in favour of the set of amendments that come from the Senate and against the amendment to Article 13. It is true, as Mr Llamazares or Mrs Díez said, that we are faced with a bill on which the Senate has done a second reading and contributed little, but it is also true what Mr Esteban stressed, and that at least in article 14 it has provided a certain preference in the payment towards what the victim's rights are, so it will be paid first to the victims than to the State itself. This is a good Senate amendment that will deserve the favorable vote of Convergence and Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u41	Thank you, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, Mr Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u42	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to welcome and thank, on behalf of the Socialist Group, the presence of various associations of victims who are accompanying us today in the rostrum. Serve these words as a recognition to all of them. [[Applauds]] Believe me, Minister, that I would have liked to start my speech by congratulating the Government on having agreed a law guaranteeing fair treatment, greater protection and defence of material and moral property for all victims of crime. Mr Minister, this is a text that should be the result of the sensitivity that all groups have expressed during their handling of those who have been physically, morally or economically damaged by the commission of any criminal act in our country. That is why we regret the lack of receptivity with the proposals we have made to them from my group, which is already common in the projects coming from his ministry. Only two amendments incorporated in the Senate, together with a set of technical corrections, are also the only socialist amendment taken on the correctness of a mistake. Frankly, Mr. Minister, this demonstrates your null and void capacity for dialogue. It is becoming increasingly clear that you have come to end the Government's justice programme: restriction of rights and freedoms and privatization of public services. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law of great importance to the Socialist Group because it directly concerns the dignity of the victims and their rights - procedural and extra-trial - and also the defence of their material and moral property. It is a statute that seeks to do justice and that is absolutely necessary for us. However, it is only a first step in recognizing the dignity of victims, their rights, guaranteeing them fair treatment, improving access to justice and providing them with greater protection. A first step because, on the one hand, in a large number of cases clearly restrictive criteria are required and, on the other, there is a limitation on the enforceability of measures protecting their rights, to which it is added - let us not forget - that by applying the second additional provision, which prevents the measures included in this law from implying an increase in staffing or remuneration, such an improvement of rights, without means, can end up in wet paper or in mere literature. Minister, there is also a clear sense of frustration on the part of the victims, who feel excluded and who see the outcome of the statute as a missed opportunity. This bill significantly restricts the concept of victim, leaving out victims as important as those resulting from offences against road safety; also victims of Francoism, who suffered persecution or violence for political, ideological or religious reasons during the civil war and dictatorship. Are they not victims, ladies and gentlemen? That is why I would like to make it very clear to you that the Socialist Group is going to work for the rights of all of them; those that are on the project and those that have been overlooked. We're not going to forget them. We understand that they are two important collectives that are absolutely obviated in the law. That is why we called for in our amendments to extend the concept of victim for any crime, whatever its nature, regardless of the time in which it was committed. There is one aspect, Minister, which is fundamental to my group but which did not want to agree, I am referring - as has already been done by other groups - to Article 13, which provides for the participation of the victim in the enforcement process. My group has made an amendment which we believe improves the current wording in many respects. Why? Firstly, because we believe that, as drafted in the draft law, it is going to be a setback, it is going to be extremely negative. And secondly, because it may violate existing prison regulations and laws as important as the General Organic Prison Act, which introduced a system of enforcement of the penalty by which scientific individualization was implemented as a bridge to resocialization, giving priority to the idea of reinsertion of the subject, in turn interfering with the provisions of article 25 of the Constitution, which states that the functions of custodial sentences and security measures must be directed towards social reintegration and re-education of prisoners. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, turning the victims into the centre of prison policy is an ethical mistake, either to demand impartiality and objectivity impossible for them or to surrender to an idea of justice other than what should prevail in a rational society. To this it must be added that the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as you know, Minister, in its Article 1 states that it is its task to ensure the protection of the legality of citizens' rights and the public interest, and in particular Article 3.10 assigns to it the function of ensuring the procedural protection of victims, promoting the mechanisms provided for them to receive assistance and effective assistance. As a result, we believe that the best solution would be for the prosecution to conduct a hearing with the victims to hear their allegations and that it would ultimately be for the prosecutor to decide whether or not to appeal to the relevant court decision. We understand that this is the most consistent formula with what has been the prison law since the restoration of democracy in our country and that, therefore, it does not violate any of the rules and principles that, let us recall, establish guarantees and rights for all citizens. It gives the impression that the hidden intent of this article 13, as it is formulated, is to try to repair one of the main problems of prison execution today, which is that the prosecutor's office, most likely due to a lack of means, cannot fulfil the function provided for in the regulations that enables it to do so. If the current wording is the result of a lack of material means by the prosecutor's office, it should be provided with the necessary resources to enable it to exercise its function rather than to seek strange formulas. We are faced with a serious problem if even in the law itself its enforceability is conditioned to budget availability. Furthermore, the text does not make a good adaptation of the directive on essential issues such as the notification of resolutions. The proposed wording does not always guarantee notification to the victim. Article 5 provides for the right of the victim to make an application to be notified of the decisions. Well, this need for a party's petition is not in the directive, so we believe that the right should be on the contrary, the right to be notified of such decisions on the criminal case, unless the victim expressly resigns. It is always necessary to ensure the notification to the victim of gender-based violence of the most important resolutions of the process, as well as of the personal situation of the offender and any changes that may occur in his or her situation. It is important to ensure the safety of the victim, not only so that situations of defencelessness cannot occur, but also to avoid real situations of risk to the victim's life and integrity. Unfortunately, however, today's procedure only has to deal with technical corrections and the only two amendments to the Senate procedure. I shall therefore end by pointing out our vote in favour of the amendment to Article 14, which comes from a socialist amendment which corrected an error of text, and our vote against the new wording of the first additional provision, which follows, Minister, without adapting to our request to appear in Congress. They want to avoid the debate again, they do not want to explain. This was a good time to demonstrate that commitment to the transparency of which they speak so much and for which they do so little. Minister, you have been supported by my group throughout the course of the bill's proceedings. We believe that it is a necessary law, we believe that a victim's status is necessary and, moreover, we were about to finish the deadline given by the directive transposing this law, but we reiterate to him our feeling that we have not been heard and that we are before a law that obviates a part of the victims, incomplete and wrong in essential aspects. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u43	Thank you, Mr. Corcuera. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to greet the victims' associations that are accompanying us today; the victims' associations of terrorism, the road safety associations, the victims' associations of the air disaster in Spanair and also Alvia. [[Applauds]] Thank you all for your dignity, thank you for giving us daily lessons of humanity. As the various parliamentary groups have said, we are in the final phase of one of the most important laws for Spanish society, a law born from humanity, from respect and solidarity, in support of those who were forever marked by crime or catastrophe. On behalf of my parliamentary group I would like to speak from the certainty and tranquillity, Minister, that this law responds to the commitment of the Government of Spain to recognize and ensure the rights of victims who have suffered all kinds of crimes, to give our recognition, our affection, our support and our solidarity to all those who have been victims of any of the crimes they have suffered one day and who in many cases changed their lives forever. It is a law made - you know, ladies and gentlemen of all parliamentary groups - not only from the legal point of view but from the point of view of humanity and from the support of all those people who have suffered the consequences of a criminal act that marked their personal history and that of their family, a law by which we make available to the victims all the tools at the procedural and extra-trial level that they need, demand and deserve. With the adoption of this draft law, Spain will become the first European country to draw up a victim's statute, a requirement that in addition, in this case, comes from the European legislator and entails more rights, more protection, more participation for the victim and that starts with the recognition of the dignity of the victims and the defence of material and moral property with the defense of the victims and of that of society as a whole. Ultimately, it seeks to give a humane response to the victim in criminal proceedings; if you prefer, ladies and gentlemen, this law seeks to humanize the process and at the same time complete the design of the rule of law, always focused on procedural guarantees, the rights of the accused, the accused, the accused or the convicted person. But our Government, as other parliamentary groups have said, has not only wanted to transpose the Community directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, but has taken one step further, and I would like to thank you, Minister, for how the Government approves this rule and transposes this law when the deadline set by the European legislator was until 16 November 2015. In this way, this bill for which I am asking all parliamentary groups to do so, wants to offer a unitary concept of victim of crime far beyond its procedural consideration, including the indirect victims of some cases that were not established in the European directive but which are covered by other international standards such as the United Nations Convention for the Protection of All Persons, and also those that have disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the European directive provides that it is necessary to ensure that victims of crime receive information, support, protection and are able to participate in criminal proceedings. To ensure that they receive such care, support and adequate protection, it provides that States shall ensure that victims are recognized as victims and treated in a respectful, sensitive, individualized, professional and non-discriminatory manner for any crime. We find that the Community directive is based on the principle that the crime constitutes an unjust act against society and a violation of the individual rights of the victims. We cannot forget that this Community directive wants to bring together all the legislation we have done in Spain, because it is true that we are a reference to the comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism and their recognition with the Law on Assistance and Assistance to Victims of Violent Crimes and against Sexual Freedom or, for example, the Law on Legal Protection of Minors, which is to be amended today and, of course, the Law on Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Gender Violence. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the parliamentary process of this bill, the People's Parliamentary Group has made every effort to reach agreements; Mr Corcuera, Mr Jané and also Mr Esteban know this. 228 amendments were tabled in Congress and the Senate, and this parliamentary group has admitted 44. I hope that on many occasions when the Socialist Parliamentary Group is in the government it will have this attitude that we have had from the People's Parliamentary Group to collect all those amendments that you have tabled to us. That is why we often have to look back to see what our condition is when we agree and work on consensus. I do not want to open a parliamentary debate; I simply want to tell you that we have not only gathered the demands and sensitivities of the parliamentary groups, but also those of the most affected, of the victims. We've met with all the victim associations. We understood what his problem was. We have understood how they have suffered, and in a special way to all of them I want to tell them again that they have our recognition. To victims of gender-based violence, victims of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, victims against sexual freedom, victims of road safety, victims of terrorism and victims of major disasters, I would like to thank them at the headquarters of popular sovereignty for their support and for making it possible to enrich this status of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill brings great important developments, such as including family members in the category of victim, avoiding as much as possible contact between victim and offender, avoiding double victimization by reducing unnecessary procedures in a process. Mr Jané, we have great interest and we have taken this into account in the protection of minors because statements that are not essential are to be deleted and, moreover, they will be able to have a legal representative when there is a conflict of interest with their parents or with the legal representatives themselves. Minor children in an environment of gender-based violence are entitled to the same assistance and protection measures as their mothers, the victims of these crimes. Children of deceased or disappeared couples will also be considered victims and urgent decisions will be taken on their custody and custody. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there are important developments in this statute, such as extending the time limits for resorting to the archives of overly short cases so far, and a fundamental one called for by the victims' associations, such as not to approach them for forty-five days, neither lawyers nor prosecutors since the moment of the tragedy to prevent the victims from continuing to suffer and to approach them unscrupulous professionals. It is obvious that the law cannot replace everything that each victim lost because of the crime he suffered, but what the Government does want to achieve with this law is that above all and above all the victims know that they are not alone and that they have comprehensive procedural and social attention. We wanted to go further and legislate through this statute the rights of victims of certain offences that did not have specific regulations, victims of trafficking, victims of exploitation and child pornography and victims of sexual abuse. Madam President, let me deliberately leave for the end the most novel and controversial aspect of the project, which is the victim's involvement in the criminal execution reserved for the most serious crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that Article 13 is the essence of the text with which victim associations fully agree. This article states that victims may give their views on the crime when the judge has to rule on prison benefits, on parole, on third-degree classification primarily to ensure the safety of all victims. It has been a variable, you know, ladies and gentlemen, long demand, often forgotten and that this law collects so that it can never happen again. The Victims of Terrorism Foundation has requested that victims, whose lives the crime changed, have a voice and are heard. We know and recognize that this is a huge claim because until now those who were only entitled to intervene in the execution of custodial sentences were the prosecution and the sentence itself, in the idea that the enforcement of sentences is the exclusive power of the State; however, we believe that it is not in any way incompatible to facilitate the victim certain channels of participation in the execution with the preservation of the absolute monopoly on the execution of sentences, as stated in this case by the Fiscal Council and also by the General Council of the Judiciary. Moreover, the report of the General Council of the Judiciary concludes by proposing the intervention, participation and hearing of the victim at the stage of the execution of the sentences, considering that the non-binding opinion of the victim in relation to the suspension or replacement of custodial sentences is of particular importance. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally share the view that the Public Prosecutor's Office should ensure that the general interest and legality are respected; why not, ladies and gentlemen, it is part of our rule of law and our legal system, but we understand that the defence of the general interest cannot undermine the fundamental right of the victim to value the defence of his personal interest as a victim; and when the victim is involved at this stage, the trust and cooperation of the victims with the criminal justice system is guaranteed and the principle of legality is observed, because the decision is always the responsibility of the judicial authority, and also the reintegration of the sentenced person is not affected. The status takes on an extra-trial dimension because it is based on a broad concept of recognition, protection and support in order to safeguard the integrity of the victim. It is therefore essential that you today recognize that we have worked to talk about the dignity of the victims, that we must give humane treatment to the victims and that this statute clearly recognizes all the facts that may at one time affect the victims. I'm done, Madam President. I would like to thank all parliamentary groups for the work they have done on this bill. I am also going to name them specifically, because I would like to thank you very warmly; above all, because we have worked from that elementary parliamentary courtesy for understanding. I am grateful to Mr Jané, to Mr Olabarría, to whom I would like to wish to see him reinstated from his recent operation - Mr Esteban, send him on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group our affection and our wish that he may soon return to this House - Mr Llamazares, Mrs Diez and Mr Corcuera. Of course my colleagues, Mrs De Micheo and Mrs Méndez, who have allowed me to go up to defend this bill that magnifies the human condition. I would also like to thank all the services of the House that have worked on this bill. I would ask you to think that today we are to safeguard and repay a historic debt that Spanish society has with the victims of terrorism, because this law, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a law of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is a law of all parliamentary groups. Do not vote against it or abstain, because this law is the law of sensitivity to the victims, of commitment to them, to end the great debt we had with them. I know - I know - that there have been moments of loneliness, of abandonment, and now we tell all of them that from popular sovereignty they are certain that they will never be alone. That is why thanks to all of them, because they have shown us the dignity of living with pain and from pain. Ladies and gentlemen, every day the sun comes out brings us its desire. We must all agree that with the victim's present Statute we are giving a fair response to something that should have been done before, but that it is up to us, the People's Party Government, to do so. We have to do what needs to be done to put at the service of society an instrument...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u45	Mrs. Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u46	I'm done, Madam President. Thank you for your kindness. ...so that consciousness is more than just a prosecutor's witness and a judge. Today we are making it possible for an instrument to come into operation so that the conscience of society is worth no more than a thousand witnesses. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Quintanilla. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your generosity in making a very brief speech. I would simply like to express the Government's satisfaction with the imminent adoption of the victim's statute, whose parliamentary procedure I know has been presided over by the will of consensus. That is why I would like to thank all those who have made it possible for us from today to have a rule that will become a reference for the care and protection it provides to all victims of crime. What we will have today from its adoption is more than the political commitment of a Government, because, certainly, a political party carried this commitment on its electoral agenda. The adoption of the victim's status is a genuine collective success. The reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the Council of State, the Autonomous Communities, the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Councils of the Judiciary and the Prosecutors were taken into account, and the views of many experts have been sought. We have heard the voice of many, and in particular of the victims, because no one better than them knows the needs and shortcomings they face. I would like to highlight to the associations of victims of terrorism, to those affected by flight JK5022, to Amnesty International, Save the Children, Unicef, the platform of children's organizations, the platform of women in front of Congress, the Stop Accidents Association, the Human Rights Association, the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Women, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. Thanks to all of them for their collaboration and contributions, they have certainly enabled us to achieve a magnificent project. If a society that forgets its victims is a sick society, today we can all say with satisfaction that Spain is a very healthy society, because our duty to be with those who have suffered the consequences of a crime is a commitment of all parliamentary groups. So, beyond the majority who finally receive the project, we can be satisfied with the work that has been done in this House, in the Committee on Justice, and in the Senate. The vast majority that will support this rule gives maximum democratic legitimacy to the status of the victim, a statute that contains a comprehensive catalogue of procedural and extra-trial rights, as has been said, of all victims of crime in a broad sense, including indirect victims and all victims of the very various crimes, further distinguishing the treatment that we have already been able to create for some of them, such as those of terrorism and gender-based violence, as well as protecting all particularly vulnerable groups. I conclude by reiterating our appreciation for the cooperation of the House, the technical services and all those who have allowed us today to have, without doubt, the legitimate pride of having a more just society with which we suffer the crime, thus becoming a more advanced and more supportive country. Addressing the victims of the crime, which is an obligation incumbent upon us all, will no longer be an option, but an obligation inherent in a State governed by law, a State that recognizes those with special suffering before the crime. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u49	Thank you, Minister of Justice. - DRAFT ENTERPRISE FINANCING LAW. [[File number 121/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u50	We move on, as amended by the Senate, to the bill to promote corporate finance. In order to establish a position, first of all, for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Anchuelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I have already had the opportunity to discuss this law in depth on behalf of my group in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and also to set our position there; but I have also had the opportunity to do something less habitual, which is to incorporate various amendments from my group into the text of the law. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the spokesmen of the majority group - giving concrete thanks to Mr López Garrido and Mr Martínez-Pujalte - for the receptivity they have had to the amendments of the opposition, at least to those of my parliamentary group, in this particular case. That attitude of collaboration, rather than the imposition of the roller, is something that benefits us all. It benefits the 47 million citizens who have to comply with the laws that come out of here, so they should come out in the best version possible, and it also gives more meaning to the work that we all do in the long debates in the Commission and making amendments. As you will recall, the purpose of this law is very important. Our economy is a highly banked economy, that is, credit depends heavily on banking. The usual form of financing, especially for SMEs, is only one: bank credit. That is why the law intends to correct this in a double plane. Firstly, since financing is primarily banking, it seeks to improve access to bank financing. In our opinion, this is where this law limps more and where it could have been more ambitious. However, it incorporates some interesting developments and, in particular, I would like to highlight one: from now on, when there is a significant reduction in a customer's credit, banks will have to notify you beforehand. In this sense, thanks to an amendment by the Progressive Union and Democracy and another by Convergence and Union, this warning has been improved, because the autonomous and micro-symes will also receive these warnings. We'd have liked to go a little further. We proposed that, when the credit is going to be significantly reduced, the customer who is going to suffer that reduction could make claims, even if they were not binding, explaining their situation, but in any case it is a significant advance. The second group of measures of the law seeks to diversify financing so that it is not so dependent on banking. That's where it's newer. Among the alternatives envisaged are participatory funding platforms, crowdfunding. It is a modern and innovative form of financing regulated by law. Thanks to an amendment by the Progressive Union and Democracy we believe that the operations of these platforms will be significantly facilitated. In the original version of the law it was not possible to use as a guarantee in such operations any type of housing or real estate, with the laudable purpose without doubt of protecting the usual housing. With the amendment that we present only the usual housing cannot be used as a guarantee but other types of real estate, which will facilitate such operations. We would have liked to make the life of these participatory platforms even easier, so that small platforms do not have to disburse such high minimum capital. We believe that investor protection could have been improved, because it is considered as an accredited and practically professional investor for any natural person who earns more than 50,000 euros, which is a threshold that we consider to be little protective of those customers. The third and final step that I would like to highlight is the result of a work of the Progressive Union and Democracy, since the beginning of the legislature, in collaboration with the People's Parliamentary Group, which up until now has been translated into non-legislative proposals, and now has legal status. It is the effort to make the complaints services of the Banco de España and the CNMV more effective. These services receive thousands of complaints each year from users of financial services and, when resolutions are in favour of the complainant, that often has no practical consequences. In the law one begins to walk in the direction that this ceases to be so. I say you start walking because it would take more concrete action and you have to put this into practice, but it is a significant step forward. They are no longer non-legislative propositions, it is a legal text that captures - although generically - the need to move in that direction. Senate amendments do not significantly change the text that came out of Congress. We will position ourselves on them in the individual vote of each, but with the comments made it is clear that we maintain our overall positive assessment of this law. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u52	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Garzón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. I speak briefly because we in the Economics Committee had an opportunity to discuss the depth of the bill. Among other things and very fundamentally we said that it was not a bad bill, that is, that it was not necessarily bad, but that it was clearly left in an insufficient instrument to correct the problems of the economy. We understand that the lack of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises is one of the factors that explains one of the problems of the Spanish economy. The European Central Bank states that there are three surveys that it usually does: the first is that small and medium-sized enterprises do not find customers; the second, financing; and the third, the level of wages, which oppress the ability to benefit; and in addition, in that order. What is surprising is that in this legislature, being the problems that I have just mentioned from the beginning to now and in the same hierarchy, the People's Party Government has concentrated only on the third of the factors mentioned here, that is to say the wage level, which was also fundamentally affecting large companies; however, it has left aside both the lack of demand - in fact the policies have increased that problem - and the lack of funding. It was attempted through financial rescue, at least formally, to correct that problem, that is, to reach financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, and after so many years of trying to make financial reforms that had already begun with the Socialist Party in the Government, we witnessed that this problem had not been solved and, instead of addressing the fact that alternative solutions would have to be sought, it had been preferable to continue making bills that did not follow the root of the problem. This is one of those bills, it has no prejudice, but it does not really serve to address that very important problem that we face. The correlation of forces in the Senate also, that is, the absolute majority of the People's Party, means that in essence the amendments that have come from the Senate have not changed anything at all and that we have to reiterate our assessment of the bill with the amendments already added. After all, large companies have been able to find new financing, because it is a scale economy that allows them access to financial markets, which allows them access to a number of financial instruments that a small and medium-sized neighborhood company will never be able to do. However, this bill attempts to enable instruments, such as securitisation, for small and medium-sized enterprises to imitate the behaviour of large companies, when that will be literally impossible and, one of the most damaging effects it will have, is that a new financial bubble is being fed by repeating the mistakes that led to the international financial bubble and the real estate bubble. That is why, in our view - it was one of the fundamental amendments that we tabled in the Commission and which we were rejected - it is necessary to create a public banking centre, that is, a financial instrument which now has clear objectives of financing small and medium-sized enterprises in addition to those with productive transformation objectives. In other words, not only a single measure, the creation of the public bank, but a pack where this measure was inserted and which would also do so by taking advantage of the current situation in which much of the financial system has been nationalized and could be used for this issue. However, it has been decided to dispense for political reasons - eminently political, not technical in any case - to give preference to other totally non-existent formulas, such as crowdfunding. Crowdfunding is a tool that I believe no one has the capacity to oppose because it is not perverse, but it is not the solution nor can it be imagined that crowdfunding is accessed in the same way when it is a political party, when it is a business project of billions of euros, in front of a small business project in a neighborhood, which by far crowdfunding that it does not have the capacity to have that accumulated money allow it to move forward. Not to mention the asymmetry in information: What information does that person who enters the Internet and finances a business project have, in the face of the classic alternative of an existing savings bank, a financial system, a financial institution, with its managers, its technicians who know the field, the problem, experts in the field and with the ability to discern whether it is profitable or not and, therefore, with greater guarantees of making a good decision? Faced with this model, which was the existing one, and which had to be modified because it had enormous problems, mainly because it had turned to banking, the People's Party presents us with a bill where crowdfunding, a deeply abstract issue, can solve and replace that mechanism. He's basically naive. We are dealing with the umpteenth draft law to solve the problem of corporate financing and we will be attending in the coming months to new bills that will say, again, that come to solve this problem. It does not go to the root, which is in the financial system, in the financial system of large companies and in the only possible alternative, which is a good public banking design that has very clear political and technical objectives of how the Spanish economy is to be made and how it wants to distribute that power among the different subjects of the Spanish economy: large companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers. Until that is done, we will face a desideratum and will be able to benefit some specific economic units, with names and surnames, practically, but will not be able to benefit the Spanish economy as a whole. We are therefore going to abstain in the vote on all the amendments, with the exception of one, to which we will vote against, because we believe that there is a contradiction in expressing a new autonomy for the National Securities Market Commission so that it can choose, without having to obey the principles of public offer, the contract of the templates. As it seems to us that there is no place in this bill and that there is no room for contradiction, we are going to vote against article 94. As for the rest, we're going to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u54	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the Convergence i Union Parliamentary Group on this bill, which comes from its handling in the Senate and which refers to the promotion of business finance, is positive, as we have already expressed in the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs when we are dealing with this debate in its entirety. We understand that this bill is taking a significant step forward, in the sense of modernising the Spanish financial system. [[The Lord]] To date, unfortunately, almost one hundred per cent of the financing, directed towards the productive economy, of small and medium-sized enterprises, of self-employed workers and entrepreneurs, of families, was banking, credit financing. These social and economic actors, they had only the option of going to talk to the director of the bank office to finance their business needs or their basic needs, to discuss their projects. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years of deep crisis in Spain, the productive fabric has experienced great difficulties in accessing the financing of its projects or its refinancing, which has unfortunately led to the closure of many companies for lack of funding and to an increase in the number of unemployed in Spain. Therefore, welcome are those initiatives that go in the direction of proposing alternative mechanisms to bank financing, which - as we can observe in this bill - have modern and relevant incorporations that already exist in other countries of our environment, in addition to those that are already incorporated in the European Union, as in the American economies, in the Canadian economies, which have for many years launched the financing of participatory platforms, such as crowdfunding platforms. From Convergence i Unió we also want to welcome in this session the representatives of the platform Equity Crowdfunding that has played a very important role - don Ramón Saltor and don Javier Villaseca today are witnessing this debate - and thanks to their collaboration, their contribution and their international experiences they have been able to be in contact with the different parliamentary groups and, in particular, with the Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, to provide their knowledge, their experiences and their know-how to implement amendments that were in the right direction and that these mechanisms were effective when the real economy was implemented. Therefore, thank you very much for your knowledge and your contributions - I also know that these gentlemen have actively collaborated with the legislator, in this case, with members of the government, and have had interviews - which have been translated either into the bill or into some amendments such as those tabled by our Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union. In the parliamentary debate that took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, it is worth noting that there was an important complicity between the Parliamentary Group on Convergence i Unió and the political and economic representatives of the People's Parliamentary Group, which has made this complicity possible and that in the Congress about ten amendments on Convergence i Unió could be adopted in the direction of complementing, modernising and giving relevance to certain aspects of experience - I repeat - that have been positive in other countries and in other international environments. We must also say that in the Senate we have succeeded in complementing and increasing this complicity with the People's Parliamentary Group, which supports the Government, with the adoption of three amendments that we consider relevant. First, we understood that these crowdfunding participatory platforms are innovative platforms, on which there is no experience; they are platforms that will channel resources that will come from private investors, small investors, microcredits or people who will invest 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 10,000, 50,000, etc. We are talking about the extension of capitalism to an important part of Spanish society, so that through their contributions they can finance business projects to which these platforms will have to advise and give them vivacity in the different business projects in order to succeed later. Here we have incorporated an amendment that we consider relevant, such as that these platforms can provide different advisory services, so that these business projects can have more experience, more efficiency and more business projection. This amendment has been adopted and we are pleased to have incorporated it into this business project. We have also been able to agree with the People's Parliamentary Group that the social capital of platforms can be developed through guarantees or other guarantees. We therefore also give or open the possibility that capital holdings, if not in cash, can be extended to other guarantees in order to formalise such capital. Finally, there is another issue that we consider relevant, such as the extension of the deadline for the registration of funding platforms. As a summary of my intervention and of the position of Convergence i Unió, we understand that this is a more qualitatively important step, with a view to expanding alternative financing mechanisms different from banks so that they can ultimately lead to Spanish society and that in the Spanish productive economy there are more resources that can incorporate more business projects, more entrepreneurship, and finally this can lead to the creation of jobs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. For the Socialist Group, Mr Caldera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me stress the importance of this debate, as we are talking about a law to promote business finance. We have contributed significantly to the development of this text, although we would have liked to have gone a little further. We are talking about business financing, and given the depth of this crisis and its duration this instrument would surely have been needed earlier. In any case, it is in our hands, or should have been, to correct some shortcomings in this text with regard to the entry into force of some of its forecasts, which unfortunately can be delayed in time, and thus deprive companies of the immediate benefit that this would entail. A very deep crisis, as has been said here by other speakers, which has affected businesses and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the paradigmatic example of our productive fabric, since we have so many of that nature. This type of business had only one access to financing, which is banking financing. What the Spanish economy must aspire to and what we must all contribute to is to ensure that there is the best possible way for such financing, especially for it to be won in dimension. That is, until our micro-enterprises gain a little more in size we will hardly be able to get out of this crisis definitively, and that would be achieved with a good financing model. Indeed, the reports of the European Union, of the European Central Bank, continue to indicate that our companies have more difficulty in accessing finance than the average of the European Union. Funding remains segmented, although it is certainly improving. However, it remains segmented, and it would therefore be essential for this problem to be resolved. Moreover, this is a crisis that companies are paying for, without having been protagonists of it. This is a fundamentally financial crisis, and we can therefore imagine what has happened. There are many companies with viable schemes - Mr Sánchez i Llibre said - which could continue to work perfectly on the market, and whose problem is not their lack of viability or of possibilities for operation, but the lack of funding. The crisis has been so intense in the financial sector that it has so dramatically affected these levels of financing. Welcome are therefore the alternative sources of funding. The most advanced and modern economies have incorporated them, and although this law incorporates some have - as I said - some inadequacies. We are going to vote in favour of almost all the amendments that come from the Senate, not much change the text that came out of Congress, although I believe that in one we will abstain, but even if we are going to vote in favour let me very briefly indicate the shortcomings that we think still exist, and that probably - I think Mr Garzón said - they will have to be reformed in the future, I hope as soon as possible. I told them that it is still insufficient for us, to improve this especially bank financing for SMEs and to revive credit, because there is still an excessive imbalance in favour of financial institutions. There is still such an imbalance, and despite the fact that financial institutions are important, because they channel credit, take savings and promote investment, which really matters here, those who generate economic activity, those who risk, those who generate employment and those who solve problems are companies. We should therefore try to eliminate sources of privilege or excessive imbalance in favour of the financial sector. As the spokesman for the People's Group said earlier, the entry into force can be delayed to eight months, and since the law incorporates some of the positive elements, we should shorten, shorten this period of entry into force to the maximum, and for this reason it is all inconsistent with the need to improve the flow of finance to SMEs. We regret that some amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group aimed at forcing the banking institution not to reduce the flow of financing, i.e. the financing of the institutions for a minimum period of one year, and under the conditions under which the company had already granted the credit, have not been included if the creditworthiness of that small and medium-sized company is demonstrated. This is not guaranteed and I would have liked it to have been so. We also proposed to substantially reduce the time limits for the entry into force of the right to notice by a maximum of two months, due to the termination or reduction of the granting of credit for SME financing. As we say in the current text we can reach eight months, and that is too long, which is therefore inconsistent with the urgent need to improve bank financing for small and medium-sized enterprises. We intended to increase the minimum deadline to four months for the bank to notify its intention not to extend the credit to a SME, which would also benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. We would also like to make clearer the inclusion of the self-employed within the scope of the rights of SMEs in cases of cancellation or reduction of the flow of funding. We also intended to reduce the minimum amount to 25% of the total amount of financing, by which the bank has to notify the advance notice in order to reduce the flow of financing or the financing granted by the SME. Finally, we have put a lot of emphasis on a need that the Spanish model continues to have, such as the need to promote financing for the productive economy through a public investment bank. We are not talking about a public bank in general, but yes - let's put the name aside - about a powerful, muscular instrument that allows investment to be promoted. We have various instruments, ICO, Cofides, Cesce, CDTI, which are quite scattered, and probably an entity that would bring them all together and that could be considered a public investment bank, following the French or Israeli model, would be very positive especially for the start of productive activities: startups, new economic activities, etc. This is something that we still lack and our amendment defends it, also claiming that it is governed by a business model based on efficient management of public resources, and that it is subject to the principles of objectivity, transparency, good governance, and accountability. Probably with these elements the law would have been more effective or had a faster impact, but it has not been possible. In any case, it clearly incorporates positive aspects. We are going to vote, I repeat, in favour of the amendments that come from the Senate, although we continue to point out this inadequacy of elements that would have been essential for a rapid exit from this tremendous crisis that has suffered the Spanish economy and society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u58	Thank you, Mr. Caldera. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will leave the thanks for the end because they will also be express and very sincere thanks, and I say this from the heart. I believe that the tone of the speeches has only picked up the tone of the work, the tone of the development of the legislative process in our Committee on Economic Affairs, in this Congress, and what has certainly happened also in the Senate, and that has been very clearly perceived, so much so that almost, because of the way the speeches have taken place, I was tempted to leave part of my speech, since with different nuances of speech from the parliamentary groups, they have been explaining what this law is, and they have been contextualizing it. In any case it is necessary for me to make this context, although it is true that other speakers have referred to this. The economic crisis from 2008 began to feel very strong in our country. It is undoubtedly the longest, deepest economic and financial crisis that has left the greatest mark on our society and our recent history. This economic crisis immediately resulted in a lack of financing for our companies, especially because, although credit was being increased to the country's large companies, the fact is that the thousands of small businesses and the autonomous professionals of our country met overnight with the financial flow closing down to them. The worst thing is that when the financing was closed, the viability of the company was also closed, the company was closed, and in just four years 3.5 million citizens went on to increase the lists of unemployment. Behind each of them there was - and still is - a personal, family and social drama. So the concern of the Government and this parliamentary group that supports it was from that first moment of the inauguration, at the end of 2011 and the start of the march in 2012, to put in place measures aimed on the one hand at balancing public accounts. We knew that we had to regain international credibility and that we had to stop spending more than we did in our public administrations, but at the same time - and it is good to make a little historical journey from the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness - other measures that were urgent and necessary to solve the problem that our financial system had. It needed to be restructured and remediated, and a further series of more specific legislative measures had been incorporated to provide financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as micro-enterprises and self-employed workers. Examples of this evolution of legislative provisions were the Cashier Act or the Venture Capital Entities Act, and we have gradually been facing this necessary change from this House, a necessary change that is of financial culture. I insist that it is a change of financial culture. Other speakers have referred to this. It is not just a question, as has been done through these legislative provisions, of improving the governance models of our financial institutions or of also improving the transparency of these financial institutions, of protecting their customers, the tax collectors, those with current accounts and savings cards, of also protecting taxpayers through the resolution mechanisms - we will soon also have an in-depth debate on this issue here - but it is basically also - and other speakers have referred to this - of changing the majority financing systems of our small and medium-sized enterprises or of our companies in general. It has been said - and I will repeat this - that in our country more than 90% of the funding that our small and medium-sized enterprises receive is bank financing. Some might think that this is common in the rest of the countries around us, but it is not. In other countries of our environment, on the contrary, more than 80% of the financing that companies receive, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, does not come from banking credit, but from the participation of people who have an interest in investing in specific projects, who want to risk, invest and boost these projects, and in this way they finance entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, people who have a project to develop and who directly capture this capital from these investors. That's the case in the most dynamic economies in the world, that's the way to feed. That's why participatory funding platforms have recently emerged, and that's why it was and is necessary to regulate these participatory funding platforms, which is popularly known as crowdfunding. This massive dependence on the financial sector caused the crisis in that sector to also result in the closure of many companies that would have been in a position to continue, which had customers, projects and viability, but which did not have the credit to move forward. It is therefore imperative that we address the regulation of these new funding mechanisms. This law on the promotion of business finance, which we discussed today on its return from the Senate, particularly affects, on the one hand, the protection of those small and medium-sized enterprises that saw how surprisingly they were left without credit, without funding, and protects them, since it sets mandatory notice periods, and also comes very in line with the regulation of this new form of financing of business projects through crowdfunding or participatory financing platforms. Reference has been made to incorporations - I have already done so - with regard to this necessary advance notice for small and medium-sized enterprises. We speak very expressly in the law, dear Mr Caldera, of micro-enterprises and self-employed professionals. It's easy to find, I think in your article 2. It is said that, when the flow of financing closes, banks have an obligation to give free credit history to entrepreneurs, so this entrepreneur can address another financial entity with its credit history, with its defaults if there are them, with their compliance, with credit lines, and with associated insurance - it was incorporated through an amendment in this House - in order to be able to find financing elsewhere. Turning already to that second part which has also been extensively referred to by others, which are the platforms for participatory financing, I would like to explain to you what the platforms for participatory financing are. According to the literal tenor of the law, authorized companies are the ones whose activity is to contact professionally, and through websites or other electronic means, a plurality of natural or legal persons who offer financing in exchange for a financial return with other persons who apply for financing for, on their own behalf, a participatory financing project, which are called promoters. The key to this issue are web pages, new technologies, which brokerage takes place through a technology platform. That is already happening in our country. It is therefore necessary to regulate it. We can't live from behind to reality and we had to regulate it. The law is prudent, because this is a new phenomenon, and the law has to be prudent in terms of investor protection and in terms of the functioning of these participatory financing platforms. That's why they're put in conditions. And the law comes back from the Senate improved. These are not just technical improvements. The Senate's amendments - reference has been made by some speakers - incorporate these new advisory services that can provide these participatory platforms in terms of marketing, advertising or design. It incorporates greater security and solvency through these forms, either from actual disbursement or, as Mr Sánchez i Llibre said, from new endorsement formulas or a combination of liability insurance. It is stipulated that the information is accessible, it is incorporated in a Senate amendment. The requirement is that the platform ensure that the customer can make decisions and knows the risks. Therefore if the law was good - the tone of the interveners has manifested it - the Senate is further improved, so recognition is necessary. He said he was leaving my thanks for the end, and I'm going to do it. I am grateful to all the parliamentary groups, and especially at this time Mr Anchuelo, for the deference and generosity he has had in mentioning me and Vicente Martínez-Pujalte in this rostrum. I would like to thank you expressly for your mention. But also to all other parliamentary groups because they have incorporated good things into the bill, incorporated ideas, and significantly improved the law, and in the tone of the interventions was seen. My express thanks also to those who have collaborated with me in the presentation of this law, to Alejandro Fernández and Celso Delgado. I ended by saying that just over a year ago Celso Delgado, in an intervention regarding the Chambers of Commerce Act, referred to the one hundred and twenty-eight years since the adoption of the Royal Decree of 9 April 1886, in which, at the impulse of Minister Montero Ríos, the chambers of commerce, industry and navigation were set in motion in our country. He made a reference from the historical perspective, a certainly profound reference and recognition of the work that the chambers had developed. I hope, by regulating today this new form of financing for our small and medium-sized enterprises and our self-employed workers, within one hundred and twenty-eight years someone will remember us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u60	Thank you, Mr. López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the next item on the agenda, on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Does any group wish to intervene? Three groups have requested the floor. For positions and for five minutes, Mr Nuet has the floor for the United Left-Initiative Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u62	Thank you, President. Our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of seven of the treaties that come to plenary today, and it is going to vote against one of them, namely the Spanish Convention with Saudi Arabia on security and the fight against crime. There are many reasons why we could argue against it. We could talk about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, and quote - on some occasion we have already done so in this House - the condemnation of blogger Raif Badawi to a thousand beats for criticizing one of the religious leaders of Saudi Arabia. You know that fifty of those thousand whips have already been executed and that the blogger has also been convicted and is in jail. Obviously we could also talk about a recent fact such as the death sentence of an Indonesian woman, a mentally ill person, or we could cite many other cases, such as the situation of women in Saudi Arabia trying to drive a car. All these things are absolutely reprehensible. You know that being an atheist in Saudi Arabia is synonymous with being a terrorist. Atheism is considered a terrorist action. But above all I want to focus on two facts; first of all, on the Swedish Government's agreement. The Swedish Government has just cancelled an agreement - like the one we are voting on today - that it had with Saudi Arabia; in this case it was not a security agreement, but a defence agreement. The Swedish Government has just cancelled this defensive partnership agreement between Sweden and Saudi Arabia, and it has done so basically because of the extreme situation of people in this country, as human rights are violated. Secondly, I believe that it is an action of hypocrisy of the size of XXL, as stated in Article 1 of this Convention, in its paragraph (a), where terrorism offences are discussed, including its financing and support. Today I believe that virtually everyone knows - and I am sure that the Members of the People's Party too - that Saudi Arabia is one of the most important funding centres of jihadist terrorism. It is an obvious fact, despite, I repeat, the hypocrisy that Saudi Arabia is considered by the United States or the Spanish Government to be a friendly country, a friendly country that finances terrorism. We are going to sign an agreement saying that terrorism cannot be financed, even though we know that Saudi Arabia is financing terrorism; it is therefore an extreme act of hypocrisy. Today Saudi Arabia is financing terrorism in Syria, Iraq and other countries around the world. But there is another very recent fact - and I finish with this issue - that Saudi Arabia is responsible for the current conflict in Yemen. You know that Saudi Arabia is captaining a military action in Yemen, with the support of the United States and other Arab countries, but Saudi Arabia is the lead singer. It's called Operation Decisive Storm and they don't give candy to children, but what they do is bomb, for example, Sana'a airport. Hospitals, schools, homes and refugee camps have been bombed. At present, the dead are numbered by hundreds and the wounded by thousands. That is the reality of Saudi Arabia, and you can vote, but please put a clamp on your nose.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of these agreements as is customary in our group, and we also do so because the agreements that we will be voting on today are with countries with which we have fluid diplomatic relations. Mr Nuet has specifically discussed this agreement between Spain and Saudi Arabia, and my group wanted to make some clarifications on this. The convention that we are voting on is a convention on cooperation in the field of security and the fight against crime, and it makes sense from our point of view because international cooperation in the fight against crimes and threats that are common to us is indispensable. Specifically, you are not going to escape the terrorist crimes that also include your funding and support. This debate was already repeated last February as a result of an agreement that Spain signed with Saudi Arabia for the promotion and mutual protection of investments, which this parliamentary group also appreciated positively, but this must not be an obstacle for Spain to be very demanding in terms of human rights violations and against the death penalty wherever they occur, and in Saudi Arabia of course. Here we have discussed the punishment inflicted on Raif Badawi, which our parliamentary group of course condemns, as well as many other human rights violations in Saudi Arabia. Our parliamentary group believes, and we must say this to the parliamentary group that supports the Government, that the Government should be much more combative in the area of human rights and the fight against the death penalty, and that is why our group considers it essential that the Government draw up a second human rights plan once and for all. That is why we have put forward a non-legislative proposal and we look forward to your debate in the Foreign Affairs Committee shortly to draw up this new plan. You are also aware that on 14 February 2012, the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies adopted by consensus a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to deepen a comprehensive assessment of the implementation, implementation, and development of the measures contained in the I Human Rights Plan, which already dates back to 2008. The Government has done nothing to date to review and advance human rights and its objectives. If there has been any change, at least on the role, in the field of human rights, in our principles of external action, human rights have been introduced in the Act on Action and Foreign Service that we adopted in this legislature, and certainly in the external action strategy that the Government presented and that we also had the opportunity to discuss in the Committee on Foreign Affairs human rights, but the Government has done nothing to strengthen these principles and move a little further into action. It should not be missed that our new position on the United Nations Security Council, as a non-permanent member in this biennium 2015-2016, should oblige Spain much more in this area to make the most unique and important contribution that Spain makes in its presence on the United Nations Security Council. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing the People's Parliamentary Group, in addition to the intentions contained in the Act on Action and the Foreign Service of the State, in our foreign action strategy, Spain should be asked to be at the forefront of the defence of human rights, since, according to our parliamentary group, this Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation are not, rather, with this change of government of the People's Party we have taken steps back on some of the issues that the Socialist Government promoted in the previous mandate. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u65	I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Miguélez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u66	Thank you, President. I defend each and every one of the seven international conventions that we bring to the plenary today, some related to purely administrative issues, of consulate,, but the most interesting are those that relate to the countries with which we sign treaties on international cooperation, especially in the fight against terrorism, as is the case with the three that we bring today with Panama, with the Macedonian Government and with Singapore. [[visas, passports]] The Plural Left is particularly concerned about the one we signed with Saudi Arabia. It is a treaty of sixteen articles, it does not differ in anything from many others that have previously been signed to combat organized crime. It is simply police cooperation between the two countries to prevent and curb terrorism through collaboration based on the principles of equality, reciprocity and mutual assistance. Spain has opposed, like the rest of the countries of the European Union, the cruel, inhuman and degrading punishments prohibited by the European Convention against Torture of the United Nations, and here I am referring to the condemnation of Badawi, which I would like to recall was the subject of a sharp statement by the High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, signed and endorsed by all countries, including Spain. Our position of friendship with Saudi Arabia at the moment does not prevent us from having a very critical dialogue in the field of human rights, but let us not forget that in the Middle East conflict this country has a great capacity for dialogue, which we cannot overlook; with Egypt it is trying to spread a vision of Islam totally contrary to that which Daesh supports, on the one hand, and Al Qaeda on the other. Therefore, Saudi Arabia's role at this time is absolutely essential in the intricate game of relations between the countries of this part of the world. The balance between Shia and Sunni, with an Iran trying to influence the region as well, is always complicated. Let us not forget that as far as relations between Shia Iran and Saudi Arabia are concerned, these countries are two heavy weights of the area. They have never been easy relations, but in recent years they have also been seen on opposite fronts by the crises of Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and now precisely Yemen, where Saudi intervention has obviously sharpened the suspicions, because in these conflicts everyone supports their co-religionaries and seems always to be about to jump the spark that will give rise to the most important war among Muslims. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow terrorist groups to take advantage of this situation of instability, and hence the need to sign this agreement. While acknowledging Saudi Arabia's dialogue, this does not prevent us from condemning these acts that are repugnant to all of us, such as the physical punishment of a condemned person, for we are committed - it is not necessary to say - this party and the Government very firmly to the promotion and defence of human rights wherever they may be. I would remind you that the European Union has also requested that the ongoing judicial reform in Saudi Arabia should open up the possibility of specifically abolishing the sentence imposed on this citizen, Badawi, and generally eliminate flogging as a punishment. I therefore insist that the friendly relationship we have with this country does not in any way imply that this kind of action seems to us to be right. Our disconformity is expressed in the multilateral forums in which we participate, especially the United Nations of the European Union. [[Applauds]] On Saudi Arabia's intervention in Yemen, an issue that has emerged here, our country considers it in accordance with international law. It has been requested by the legitimate president himself, Hadi, to the League of Arab States, against a part of the population that has used violence to destroy the country's recognized institutionality. Even so, Spain argues that a political and non-military solution is necessary, so that there is an inclusive dialogue on all sides. Indeed, Mr Nuet, yesterday at the last hour the United Nations Security Council gave its support to these Saudi theses, demanding that the Sufis put an end to the use of violence, that they do not interfere with the political transition process in Yemen, while at the same time allowing access to humanitarian aid. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be a debate on international policy or human rights, but we are trying to sign a bilateral convention which the Government considers necessary at this time with that particular country, because it is a useful and effective instrument to combat one of the most serious problems facing the international community, such as terrorism and the fight against organized crime. It is therefore easy to understand, if you want to understand, that this fight against terrorism through bilateral cooperation is perfectly compatible with the discrepancy in other internal matters, which, as I say, are being channelled through the appropriate forums, in fact being done. Gentlemen of the Plural Left, let me say to you that you talk a lot about hypocrisy and you seem very concerned about human rights in Saudi Arabia, but when people starve for the ineffectiveness of a government in a country with many natural resources and jail dissident opponents, even if they are not whipped, as is the case in Venezuela, they are extremely sympathetic to it, which is still an incoherence. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miguélez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u68	We turn to the following point, concerning the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives: Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 2/2010 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. In order to defend the particular amendments and votes put forward, first of all, by the Joint Group, which also lays down its position, Mrs Barkos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, we are taking up the Commission's opinion on the reform of the Lofca and the Budget Stability Act and I would like to dwell very, very much on one of the amendments tabled by the Navarro People's Union to this bill which has not been accepted in debate in the Commission. Let us now, as I say, deal in full with the circumstances. I stand specifically in this because of the special importance of the initiative in the field of self-government defence. It is a proposal as legitimate as, also in my legitimate opinion and that of my group, which is wrong both in form and in substance; in substance because the amendment, with regard to the reform of the second additional provision of the Lofca, suffers from technical defects which would leave the Foral Community of Navarre in worse condition than possible challenges by the State in relation to taxes separate from those agreed, which is the issue that we are particularly concerned with in this case. The second reason is because the reference to Article 39.1(a) of the Improvement leads us to a pre-statutory situation when the above-mentioned precept endorses those powers and powers that it currently exercises - we speak of 1982 - under the terms of the Covenant Law. These are circumstances or conditions on the merits that are not of interest, to be summarized. Furthermore, I would like to recall that Article 39 of the Lorafna has been used by the Constitutional Court when applying the Lofca in respect of unagreed taxes. I repeat, therefore, that in substance the reform of the second additional by referring to Article 39 of the Lorafna is, in our view, a mistake. It should be based on Article 45, as this Member has recently defended in this rostrum a proposal for reform of the Lofca, which was not accepted. Moreover, today - we are deeply concerned about this - it is clearly wrong in the form of the proposal made. This is not the debate in which we had to be discussing such an obvious and basic issue in the defence of Navarra's self-government. We could find ourselves in the situation where the majority group of the House accepted the amendment - either directly, well fucked and even with some of the recommendations that we have been making to them - and we would have to pass a law that, in the defence of self-government through the reform of the second additional provision, forced us to have very disrespectful aspects of Navarra's self-government. For example, the reform proposed today would force the Navarra Foral Community - like the rest of the communities - to communicate pharmaceutical expenditure to the central government, under punishment not to allow Navarra to request or commit to the purchase of debt, simply and simply because this is being established in the reform proposed today. My reflection is as follows. If to defend the self-government in one way we are compromising it in another way, frankly I would like to tell the proposer that they are getting into trouble. I'm afraid we're also getting into shipwrecks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government introduced this bill to amend the Autonomous Communities Financing Act in December 2014. A very broad period of partial amendments was opened, until 17 March; it was open to all groups without exception, everyone could amend. Only Union del Pueblo Navarro tabled an amendment with implications in Navarre, precisely in defense of its tax system, number 64. Not taking advantage of the processing of this bill to improve the outlaw regime could have been described by some as leaving the defence of Navarre vacant, leaving a historic opportunity to pass. I can understand that some people do not like why and why the amendment we are submitting. It will not please those who want Navarra to lose its institutionality. Nor will those who want it to be a minority in the Aranist Euskadi, nor those who say that their political objective is that Navarra cease to be called Navarra, nor those who say that Navarra needs a state of its own for the exclusive reason and circumstance that Euskera is spoken there. A language, a nation, a state. Does that ring a bell? We are presenting an amendment by and for Navarra and in our intention is to find a formula that does not give rise to misinterpretations, excuses or interested electoralisms. What do we want? To provide a better fit of the Navarro tax system in the Spanish Constitution and to update the standard by incorporating a mandatory reference to the Navarro Improvement approved in 1982, therefore, after the approval of the Lofca in 1980. However, we want to try to avoid in the future something that has already happened, such as undesirable interpretative decisions of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, we want to do so with a formula that integrates without exclusion the different formulations that have been put forward. We want to reach a respectful, guaranteed agreement that we can all vote on in the affirmative here. It is true that if it is not possible to reach an agreement today, we could do so in the Senate. I insist, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Barkos now says that she feels bad that we have this debate; however, a few weeks ago she said that UPN and PP - as a media publication - were trying to do this cover-up reform without going through the debate. This is an organic law and we couldn't even have done it, because here we had to discuss it. What happens is that you have two arguments. Mrs Barkos, we always vote for Navarra. We're sorry and we're saying it. You are richer and have two visions. When asked about Navarra's future, whether it will remain Navarra or Euskadi, you say it will be Euskadi, that you would like it to be so. With this reform we want Navarra to remain, and that is what we ask of the groups. Do you want to strengthen Navarra, yes or no? It's very simple, Mrs. Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u72	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. As a Valencian, this bill really seems to me to be a mockery, an insult, a gross intervention in every rule because they have had a lot of time to pass many things, even to pass tax amnesties from which your colleague, Mr Rat, benefits. They have had time for everything but to really address the real problem, which we need a new model of financing for the autonomous communities; something they had to have done and which they have not done. I therefore understand that this law is a mockery even of article 15 of Organic Law 8/1980, which states that, when an autonomous community is unable to ensure a minimum level of delivery of all the basic public services it has assumed, a supplementary allocation will be established through the State General Budgets, the purpose of which will be to ensure the level of such provision. That you have not done with us, with the Valencians. With the allocation we receive, we only cover 85% of health and education, the rest we have to cover with loans. We have a debt of almost 40 billion, so from 2012 to 2015 we have had to resort to these donations, to those loans that the ministry grants us having to borrow 28 billion euros. In fact, the Ministry of Finance is practically the one with most of the Valencian debt in its hands. We had a debt increase of 5 billion in 2014. This situation is unsustainable. Therefore, the problem must be addressed and not patched. I would like some questions to be answered, not as Mr Gerardo Camps did the other day by releasing tons and tons of ink as a squid so as not to admit that in twenty years of government of the People's Party in the Valencian Community they have done absolutely nothing to improve the underfunding of the Valencians. I therefore put a few simple questions that we would like to know to the Valencians. In July will start the negotiation of autonomous financing, is there any progress in the liquidation of the IRPF? If so, can you tell the Valencians what our level of underfunding is? Does the People's Party already have any progress on what will be the proposals that the ministry will bring to the negotiating table that is supposed to be held in July? What are they? Those are really the questions that interest Valencians, and not laws that only serve to intervene a little more in our autonomy, to get our hands on our autonomy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u74	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are opposed, first, because it affects the fundamental rights of the State of self-government and the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, because of a lack of institutional loyalty, because it should be remembered that only three days before the Council of Fiscal and Financial Policy was convened and there a matter as important as that of guarantees and guarantees was hidden from the autonomous communities; that is a lack of institutional loyalty. This was done behind the back of the communities, three days earlier and hiding part of what was to be approved. Finally, we oppose the fundamental issue, the financing system of this country. Community funding has to be equal for all Spaniards, because basic services are funded that affect all autonomous communities and every citizen equally Now it turns out that funding is not equal in all territories. [[health, education and dependency]] Canary Islands - not said by the Canarian nationalists, but reflected in the report made by FAES - is the community that has the most deviation from the average; it has an annual deficit of 800 million euros, which affect the most important benefits for citizens, such as those of health and education. The same does not apply to the financing of basic services. There was a public commitment from Mr Rajoy and the People's Party that the autonomous financing system would be changed and would be in effect as of January 2015. It has failed; there has been a lack of courage on the part of the People's Party to take on a matter that is very important for the solidarity and equality of all Spaniards. There is that phrase that uses both PP, equality of the Spaniards. We are not the same on the issue of financing. In that regard, we call for a review of the autonomous financing system. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. As we have already said in our return amendment, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, under the pretext of ensuring adequate financing of social services, has maintained its proposal and made progress within the framework designed by the People's Party, in which the State exercises a ferocious guardianship over the financing of the autonomous communities and their margins in designing its budgetary policy with restrictions on debt issuance and the maximum deficit. That is why the amendments we have tabled to this bill are deleting, both from the first article and from the second article. Article 1 seeks to ensure that the State retains amounts from the financing system if there are outstanding obligations of the autonomous communities with local entities relating to transfers or social expenditure agreements. This is a measure that reinforces the centralist conception of administrations, as we have already denounced many times. The second article deals with the same issue, since, in the event of a breach of the objectives of budgetary stability, public debt or the expenditure rule, the need for State authorization to grant guarantees, guarantees or other types of guarantees to credit operations is extended. These are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, why we have tabled our amendments to delete these two articles and why, of course, we are going to vote against this bill. The point is that we are going to have to vote that no to this bill more eagerly than we had when it was introduced for the processing of amendments, because, as it comes out of the Commission, with the amendments that were incorporated from the People's Group, this draft is far worse than it was already. Therefore, our position is strongly contrary to this bill because it is not in the line that defends Galician nationalism, pretending to change the rules of autonomous financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it has been months - indeed years - trying to patch up the Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities, and all they have achieved is to highlight their absolute incompetence or their declared neoliberal ideology, their exhausting, re-centralizing and obviously homogenizing ideology. They don't have it easy, it's true. They cannot design any financing system that does not continue to exploit Catalonia economically and financially. Beyond injustice, ladies and gentlemen, they are drowning the hen of the golden eggs. What are you afraid of? In so long you have not been able to reform the funding system. They have not even raised any serious reform despite their lax absolute majority. Simply, ladies and gentlemen, they have endeavoured to increase control over the autonomous communities and to limit their financial autonomy, as well as their management autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, your bill is an absolute economic asphyxiation of the communities so that only those who are right with the Spanish Government can survive. It is a turning point in the re-centralisation of competences, as well as a lamination of self-government and the autonomy of the autonomous communities. His bill also highlights any federalist claim in Catalonia and gives us - I repeat, gives us - a strong reason for those parties that defend the immediate proclamation of Catalonia's independence. The economic concert won't give it to us. Neither the People's Party nor the Socialists, nor the two dynastic parties, nor the futurable parties with the same aspirations as Podemos, are going to pose it; we know it and we are convinced. We are therefore clear that on 27 September we will be the Catalans and the Catalans who will go to the polls and who will vote, among other things, on our funding system and our freedom. I'm done. We urgently need a new state; a state that will not only end its blackmail, but will allow a land like Catalonia, with so many economic and social possibilities, to cease to depend on the crumbs that the Madrid-based governments decide graciously to grant us. As the immortal Ovidi Montllor said... [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Anchuelo has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy. [[Mr Azpiazu Uriarte asks for the floor]] Excuse me for a second, Mr. Hook. Mr Azpiazu, according to the agenda, you have no amendments. It would have to take a position, so it should do so after the groups with amendments. Mr Anchuelo has amendments. [[Pause]] For the purposes of the 'Diary of Sessions', it is not an amendment to the whole but a specific amendment to the Commission's debate. You have no amendments, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u81	Mr President, of course I have no amendments and I did not intend to intervene in this debate, but a number of amendments have been incorporated during the course of the debate, specifically from the Group of the European People's Party, which require intervention by our parliamentary group. I have no objection to intervening in the final setting of a position on the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u82	Very well; that will be done, Mr Azpiazu. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Hook, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. This organic bill amends two of our country's main economic laws, namely the Budget Stability Act and the Autonomous Financing Act. It modifies them minimally; it modifies them only so as to adapt them to the new liquidity mechanisms. This raises two types of problems for my group. Firstly, we do not share a part of the few amendments that have been made; and secondly, we believe that this would have been a good opportunity to amend these two laws much more thoroughly, both of which are in need of reform. I'll start with the Budget Stability Act. I would like to recall that my group voted in favour of it, despite the fact that it seemed to us to be a rather decaffeinated law. It was not exactly our model that was designed there, but we believed and continued to believe that it filled an important gap in our institutional design that was the need to better coordinate the different public administrations of our country. However, this necessary law, which we are voting for, has a problem that is not in its content but in its lack of application. An already somewhat decaffeinated law has not been applied with the ambition with which it could be applied. It has not been applied automatically or transparently, when there have been breaches by autonomous communities in particular or by municipalities. This is not a subjective opinion of me or my group, it is something that the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority says, or it is something that the European Union itself corroborates when it drafts reports on Spain. These institutions are surprised that not all the mechanisms provided for by law are used in cases of non-compliance. It is something that also confirms reality itself. A few weeks ago we learned about the public deficit data of the autonomous communities and of 17 communities, thirteen failed to meet their deficit target - 17 or 13 - and, in addition, eight worsened their results compared to the previous year. However, the law does not seem to be being applied with all its possibilities. Instead of doing that, new zero-type financing inventions are designed to aggravate the problem in an autonomous election year. Again, I mean opinions of the AIReF that, of course, we share. Some of our amendments have to do with this. The few changes to the Budget Stability Act make this problem worse if it is not used automatically and transparently. There are some changes that have been introduced that will increase the obscurantism in law enforcement, the lack of transparency. For example, so far the adjustment plans and their timetable for implementation have been public and with the changes introduced in this law now the Ministry of Finance will publish information on the adjustment plans. Related information. It is clear that the transparency of the adjustment plans and the timetable for implementation have so far been distorted; so far the information submitted by an Administration when an adjustment plan was in force was generally known, and this is also changed in law. Therefore, these are changes that we do not share and our amendments call for leaving the law on these issues as it was before. There is another issue that we do not share either. We are very pleased, of course, that the principle of withholding resources from the autonomous financing system has been introduced into Spanish legislation, which allows the State to retain, when an autonomous community does not comply with something important, part of the resources with which it is financed. I would like to recall that this is one of the many issues that Union Progress and Democracy put into the political debate many years ago and at that time it was said to be unconstitutional, that we were Jacobins. We are pleased that this principle has been introduced, but once introduced, why not include in it issues such as the debts that the autonomous communities have with the municipalities because of delegation of powers or partnership agreements? I say this because they are important departures from the social spending of the municipalities and on many occasions the communities accumulate debt with the municipalities. If we want to finance social spending, this is one way. These are issues related, as you can see, to the minimal changes that are introduced into the law. But, as I recalled at the beginning, although the Progressive Union and Democracy voted in favour of the Budget Stability Act, this was not exactly our model. Our model was more ambitious and we believe that the past years have given reason to an important key to our alternative model, such as the need to strengthen previous controls. Between taking action, once there has been non-compliance and avoiding non-compliance, it is clearly preferable to prevent, avoid non-compliance, have more prior controls. We proposed at the time three previous control orders. Firstly, greater control over expenditure by all public administrations. In Spanish legislation, control remains, above all, indirect. The public deficit is controlled, but that does not allow expenditure to be controlled because an Administration can inflate its expected revenue and continue to spend more; it is better to control expenditure directly. Today there are controls and expenditure limits in the different administrations, but in the territorial administrations they are self-imposed limits. Would it not be better to adopt them in a coordinated way rather than being self-imposed limits and to have more emphasis on direct expenditure control rather than deficit control? Second preventive measure. Once these expenditure limits have been established, the composition of expenditure is important. If communities have to deal with health and education services, it does not seem to meddle in their autonomy that there is a minimum of expenditure that will have to be spent on these issues in order to ensure that these services are of the same quality throughout the national territory. Therefore, within this expenditure limit, a minimum expenditure on health and education should be established, so that in the event of cuts, other expenditure rather than such essential expenditure should be prioritized in the face of cuts. Third question. We believe that the draft autonomous budgets before they are discussed in the Autonomous Chambers must have prior supervision. This may scandalize, but it is exactly the philosophy of the European Semester within the European Union. If such a philosophy is possible between sovereign partner states in the Union, will it not be possible between autonomous communities of the same country? We think so. Other amendments sought to learn from past experience since the adoption of the Budget Stability Act. When this law was passed, there was no AIReF. By the way, we in an amendment proposed to create an independent tax council but it was not approved. Subsequently, this AIReF was created and this reform of the Stability Act was a good opportunity to adapt it to the existence of the AIReF and to give it more prominence in the calculation of non-observable but very important variables, such as the structural deficit or the medium-term GDP growth rate. They are unobservable variables, but at the center of the law an independent authority would have to have more prominence than it has. By the way, it should also have more prominence in this House when we discuss the General Budgets of the State. The Bank of Spain appears but the President of the AIReF does not appear. Another thing we have learned from experience. You said in the law that by 2020 we would target a public debt of 60% of GDP. It would be desirable to do so, but we are five years away from 2020 and public debt is close to 100 per cent of GDP. I mean, if you don't change what the law says, we're saying we're going to cut public debt 40 points of GDP, 400 billion euros, in five years. That does not seem to be feasible, therefore, as we pointed out in one of our rejected amendments, I do not quite understand why in the Commission this reform of the law should be used to adapt the letter to reality. Other amendments relate to the Autonomous Financing Act. I will expand on this less because we have discussed this issue often in the House, but I remind you that my group believes that the reform of the Autonomous Financing Act cannot be left for the next parliamentary term, and this would therefore be a good opportunity to undertake such reform. Our broad lines of reform are well known: we believe that the key idea in autonomous financing must be the same per capita financing. That is true, inhabitant of adjusted population; adjusted taking into account the demographic differences - greater ageing - and geographical - greater dispersion - that exist between communities. With the same per capita funding, similar essential services - health, education - can be guaranteed with the same quality throughout Spain. We believe that it is contrary to that principle of equality that the outsourced regimes, as calculated, cause such enormous over-financing in the outsourced communities and we defend the unity of the Tax Agency and that it should not be fragmented territorially because doing so would reduce their efficiency in the fight against fraud and increase their costs. These are the amendments that we defended in the Commission and which were rejected and which we are bringing back to the plenary waiting for any of them to be taken into consideration. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u84	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. Group of the Plural Left. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with something obvious, of course, which I believe you will all have already realized. This law is anything but a law on the financing of the autonomous communities. In fact, if the title of the law had to do with its content, it might well be said that this is a law of intervention by the autonomous communities, as is also reflected in the Commission's opinion which we see today in plenary. It is also an intervention of the autonomous communities perpetrated with night and light because it cannot otherwise be described that an important part of what we are seeing today has entered once again, in the process of amendments, as amendments by the People's Group in aspects which have little or nothing to do with the initial draft. You are getting used in a very worrying, almost addictive way to a process that if I am allowed the expression is prostituted the function of this Congress. [[Rumors]] Yes, it is, it is. It is degrading democracy and endangering the legal security of this country. The amendments put forward by the People's Group and adopted in the Commission represent a new law. The Government of the People's Party has every right to raise them, may raise them by placing them in the initial text or may put them forward by the People's Group by submitting a proposal for a law. What the People's Party cannot do repeatedly and consistently is to place alternative texts permanently in the debate process without the other groups being able to participate in the whole process. Do you really believe that it respects the democratic role of this Congress that you, in the course of amendments, have proposed to us in an amendment the reform of seven important laws such as the General Health Act, the Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure, the Law on Fiscal, Administrative and Social Measures, the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health Service, the General Budget Act, the Law on Electronic Invoices and Accountancy of Invoices and, if any, the Law on Reordering Lotteries and State Bets? We are facing a real coup d'état to the autonomous state. This is not a financing law, it is not the financing law that Mr Montoro should have brought here as a result of the revision of the autonomous financing model, a law that expired, so a new one should have entered into force as of 1 January 2014, that is, we are talking about many months ago. Let me tell you something, this is a law that is a new twist of nut, a new tightening of the Budget Stability Act. By the way, the Budget Stability Act was voted in favour of Convergence i Unió, which now tears its garments. To Convergence and Union we must tell you, and I will tell you in Catalan so that the Catalan media can reproduce it better - then I will translate it -: Gentlemen of Convergence and Union do not cry in Catalonia the consequences of what you vote for in Spain, because that no longer hangs. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Either by naivety or by phariseeism, in either case, you are responsible for everything that the Budget Stability Act means. Or did they believe that when they approved that, as a development of article 135 of the Constitution, that would not affect the autonomous communities and would not affect Catalonia's autonomy? Did anyone think Catalonia was going to come out of this invitation? Tell me what you want, but it's clear that you're ab initio responsible for what's going on. From that perspective, I would like to tell the People's Party that this law is the clearest evidence that you are being deeply disloyal to the territorial administrations, to the autonomous communities and to the local administrations. In Catalonia we have good proof of that. While you call for institutional loyalty and institutional cooperation you refuse to pay, to comply with the terms of the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia or you unjustifiably delay - in some cases up to two years - the payment of the Competitiveness Fund. [[The lady]] They are confusing institutional loyalty with submission, cooperation with imposition, and this law goes in that direction. I want to pay special attention to a bleeding issue, which is what this law is going to mean in relation to the National Health System and in particular in Catalonia to the Servei Català de la Salut. You want to control spending. We have no inconvenience, provided that this is done in terms of rationality and starting by making it clear that expenditure control has to assume the acceptance that it is not true that the Spanish public health system, Catalan or any other system are spending above needs. Rationalize yes, but cut it that way not. This cannot be done, above all, by intervening in the competences of the autonomous communities until they are emptied of content. Autonomy has advantages and risks. Autonomy means decision-making. If you undermine or nullify the decision-making capacity in such important aspects as the size and management of that expenditure, autonomy is being burdened, and autonomy is, I insist, a key aspect of our constitutional model. You want to implement a model of controlled and intervened autonomy, emptied of content, and on the health issue it is tremendously serious, very serious, because it affects people's lives. In the same way that I have previously criticized Convergence i Unió, what you cannot do is to take those measures and then tell the autonomous communities to apply them in their territorial sphere, in their autonomous community, and to confront and face the citizens. This means a deterioration in the form of waiting lists and the deterioration of working and care conditions of citizens. Although you may then agree with each other that the best solution is to encourage the private health model, as Councillor Boi Ruiz is doing right now in Catalonia. Rationalization of health expenditure yes, and rationalization of pharmaceutical expenditure also, but with a little discretion, with policies. Let no one take this the wrong way, but I haven't found a better metaphor. Some of the articles aimed at controlling pharmaceutical spending seem to be written by a pimp brigade, by someone who believes that giving a regulation a day in the morning things happen like this. In the army it may be, but in the health system of this country it is not. Although it turns out that the Brigada Chusquero is the Brigada Aranzadi, that number of people who believe that with the laws everything can be solved. I come from the world of law, but the laws don't solve everything. Why do you not address in depth in the Health Committee or in the Inter-Territorial Health Commission a debate on pharmaceutical spending? Why don't we go into this in depth? Pharmaceutical expenditure acts like this, and in some respects is uncontrolled, not uncontrollable - you know it - because we are talking about that we are an inverted market, that is, who determines whether or not it is needed, the user, but the pharmaceutical offer, which is determined by the healthcare professional affected and imbued on many occasions by the pressure of the big laboratories, of the big pharmacists. If you want to act in that direction, I make some proposals to you. For example, let us establish a very clear change of relationship with the big laboratories, let us also press this area, and above all limit their role of determining through the facts - with new records, with changes in the modality, with trichinets, with the theme of misleading advertising - let us limit the pressure of the laboratories that often determines the intensity of pharmaceutical spending. Let us give more tools to the professionals so that they can have the capacity to decide without having to rely on those laboratories. Let's set up changes in drug purchasing systems. Let's take a deep offensive with the generics with all the consequences. Let's train the citizens. And then we understood one thing. If we want to reduce pharmacy spending, especially in relation to older people, they understand that with a good primary care centre, community education, community services, a lot of pharmaceutical spending is saved. Every time you pull the Unit Act forward or backward, every time you close a service or make it difficult, every time you prevent a community social service centre from opening up, you are firing the pharmaceutical spending of this country, because many people of a certain age channel some of your problems towards that situation. Unfortunately, it's true. Therefore, yes to control, but without the chusquero brigade and without the Aranzadi brigade, entering the bottom. Finally, they re-regulate the issue of health consortia for the umpteenth time, and they do so by generating again...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u86	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u87	...deep elements of legal insecurity. In summary, the truth is that in no way can we vote in favour of this text, but against it, and we ask you to abandon your technique of carrying out the parliamentary procedure by always putting forward bills that, after very few days, are replaced by an amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party. It is thus impossible to dignify the parliamentary task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u88	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is beginning to deal with this bill, which we are debating today, with an amendment being tabled in its entirety. The meaning of this amendment was structural because of issues that we have been denouncing in this legislature. The system of autonomous financing needs to be modified. It should have been last year and it wasn't. The Government has preferred to finance the autonomous communities extraordinarily with loans and credits, rather than on a regular basis, i.e. through a new funding system. These considerations do not preclude us, from a short-term perspective, from assessing some of the measures contained in the draft law in a positive way; for example, the articulation of mechanisms to ensure the financing of social services that were being financed by local authorities or to improve the liquidity system that is being perceived by territorial administrations. But this is only because what needs to be done, namely the reform of the financing system of the Autonomous Communities, is not affected, which, I repeat, unlawfully, contrary to the legal provision of the term of validity of the already exceeded and expired financing system, prevents the same Organic Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities. Mr. Coscubiela, it seems you only speak here for the media, as I understand what you were saying in the rostrum. I would remind you, Mr Coscubiela, that your training has voted in favour of the financing system, of a bad financing system which Convergence i Unió rejected, and we have also rejected in the Commission the opinion of the draft law that we are now debating. Mr. Coscubiela seems to forget or ignore it. You'll know, Mr. Coscubala. None of the convergence and union amendments were adopted in the Commission procedure and we have kept them for the plenary. With some of these amendments, the aim of Convergence i Unió is to delimit the principle of budgetary stability very well without implying a breach of the principle of financial autonomy, because the text that will be adopted today seems to be a violation and we believe that this should be well limited. In terms of autonomous financing, our amendments address a number of aspects, including ensuring the effective participation of the autonomous communities in the revenue that has arisen as a result of increased taxes, for example, value added tax and certain excise duties, of which the autonomous communities have not seen a euro. Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that from 2012 to 2014 this tax increase has amounted to 35 billion euros that have been allocated to the General Administration of the State, but not to the Autonomous Communities. There are other amendments which go in the same direction: to review the distribution of deficit targets attributed to the different administrative levels, since those attributed to the autonomous communities are deficit targets higher than those provided for by the application of the first transitional provision of the Budget Stability Act. We also intend to modify the amount of deliveries on account of the autonomous financing system in order to bring it into line with the evolution of tax revenues collected. I have explained this more than once in this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen: the autonomous communities in 2015, at a time when much more is being collected for taxes, will have less income on account than in 2012. We also call for the allocation and transfer of payments to the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015. In the debate on the amendment to the whole of our spokesman on the subject of finance, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, he expressed a very specific concern, but of great importance to us, which is what is reflected in Amendments 65 and 67. The strict application of the content of the bill leads to a very high rigidity for the normal development of the work carried out by the autonomous financial institutes, having to request the authorization of the State Administration, of the Ministry of Finance, to grant an endorsement or credit, despite the fact that there is already an unexplained overall administrative authorization to carry out this activity. This unique authorisation would greatly complicate the management of this instrument of dynamism, I would like to recall ladies and gentlemen, the real economy, the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises and the financing of self-employed workers and, ultimately, the productive economy. These amendments seek to eliminate this rigidity because, moreover, with the amendments adopted in the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party, this issue has not been closed. We are trying to move forward on this and we have not yet reached an agreement. Another issue that concerns us about the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which are included in the opinion, is that of the recruitment of research and non-health personnel by research consortia - Mr Coscubiela said - for research and non-health purposes. These are important issues for ICU that have not yet been closed and we continue to negotiate. Furthermore, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero, for her willingness to engage in dialogue. We are talking about funding the autonomous communities again, the principle of sufficiency has its raison d'être, ladies and gentlemen, and you will understand perfectly well that it must be sufficient funding to guarantee the health, education and social services services provided by the autonomous communities. To this end, we must not forget the new provisions which have been included in the opinion following the adoption of Amendments 87 and 88 tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. The first amends Title VII of the General Health Act and the second amends the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. It is not the first time that the majority group has included amendments that have no bearing on the subject of the draft law that we are dealing with and it is not a good formula, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, nor is it the first time that we have had more discussion of the amendments that you are submitting and include in the opinion of the draft rather than of the same draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, you have drawn an important issue from the Committee on Health. They have avoided an in-depth debate, a debate on a measure that has consequences beyond what would actually be political discussion and will have consequences on the citizenry. You are changing this issue through the back door without facing a thorough debate where it is appropriate to do so, which is in the Health Committee, and that is not right. These amendments involve interference in the management of health services transferred by the State Administration and assumed many years ago by the Autonomous Communities. They'll wonder why. By means of an alleged instrument for facilitating the treasury of pharmaceutical expenditure, the aim is to intervene in the autonomous management powers, and the State Administration can de facto concentrate this management and also allow the Government to cancel the supplementary portfolio of health services of the autonomous communities and limit access to the distribution of economic resources for health. The measure is purely an intervention by the autonomous communities. Can you state here that the objective of the measure is to ensure the sustainability of pharmaceutical spending? We can hardly understand this when it is the Government of the State that approves new benefits, but it does not provide the autonomous communities with economic resources for their financing. I remember that thing about me inviting, but you pay, and I'm talking to you now. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, do not count on us. Have you spoken to the Autonomous Communities? I don't think they've done it yet. Talk to the Autonomous Communities because they will tell them that what needs to be done is to ensure the sustainability of the health system by increasing state budgetary resources for the autonomous financing of health by resolving the traditional underfunding that the health system suffers and also by guaranteeing the principle of institutional loyalty with the Autonomous Communities in the health field, by allocating specific funding for the new benefits approved by the Government of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree with these measures. The amendment in the health laws that they will adopt today with their votes, from the perspective of the Ministry of Health, should be a mere administrative matter, but from the perspective of the autonomous communities, which are the competent health administrations, in providing services to patients, to citizens, is not an administrative measure, it is a real measure and with real effects, which will negatively affect the level of care of public health services. For Convergence i Unió, the measure is inexhaustible in the terms they will adopt today with their votes, the measure is not a real measure to ensure the sustainability of health services.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u90	Mr. Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u91	I'm done, President. The measure involves a clear interference in the autonomous management of health services against the competences of the autonomous communities and has an impact on the provision of health services to citizens. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u92	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vazquez Morillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u93	Thank you, President. The draft organic law that we discussed according to its title amends two other organic laws, but according to its content after the amendments included by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Finance Commission, amends eight laws. It's a good thing they didn't put in an amendment to change the title, because if it hadn't been for the president it would have taken a while to read the title of the project we discussed. In short, the project has been left in a totum revolutum aimed at reducing the powers of the autonomous communities, financial and management autonomy, but which of course does not solve the financing of the autonomous communities nor will it facilitate the fulfilment of the deficit objective nor will it facilitate the fulfilment of the public debt objective. In order to control the deficit and the debt, it is not necessary to cut the competences and make decisions on behalf of the autonomous communities, because the problem is not the autonomous communities - at least not all the autonomous communities - who systematically fail to meet the deficit target is the central administration. Someone should tell Mr Rajoy that he has not improved the deficit target that Zapatero left in his last government as far as he is concerned, in the central administration. He inherited a 5.2 target and continued in 2012 at 5.2 and in 2013 at 5.5. Now, thanks to the fact that the European Union has relaxed its objectives, the central administration has been about to achieve it, it has been very short, but the autonomous communities of the PP have passed. In public debt there may be something worse. You have inherited a public debt of 70% of GDP and are already at 97.7%. As they have already been explained, it will be difficult to reach 60% by 2020, which has also been warned by Airef. What happens to the Autonomous Communities? That the PP's are the ones that most trigger the debt, the total champion of the Valencian Community with almost 38% of its debt GDP and it has also skipped nothing less than in 5 points its objective. Do you know what the debt of the autonomous communities they inherited was? It was about 15%, so now that you reach certain goals that you inherited from Zapatero you're going to celebrate it a lot. If they reach the level of debt they inherited, at 70%, it will be a success; if they reach the level of debt of the autonomous communities left by the Zapatero government, it will be a success. They have already set out to meet the unemployment rate that Zapatero left, they will celebrate if they are able to reach the unemployment rate that Zapatero left them. This bill also amends the Lofca. The truth is that the only thing that makes the amendment of the Budget Stability Act is to restrict the capacity of the autonomous communities, as they have explained, to grant guarantees. What the Government does not like is that the autonomous communities have their own credit institutions that paralyze their effectiveness. We are very concerned about this because Andalusia has its own credit institution on its doorstep. This bill, as I said, also amends the Lofca, but not to solve the problem of the financing of the autonomous communities, but to subject them more to the orders of the central government. They keep saying that they created a supplier fund to pay the bills that were found in the drawers, but it is that three years later they continue to create funds and they are no longer for those bills, but for their bills. They create a supplier fund 2, a supplier fund 3, a social fund, the FLA. They are financing the autonomous communities through loans that they have to repay with interest included, and that is not fixing the financing system of the autonomous communities. You in each fund that you offer in good condition further reduce the competences of the autonomous communities. Now, for example, in this bill, the authority to retain resources for the autonomous communities to pay directly their debts to local entities is being granted. It is already the central Government that prioritizes the payments that a particular autonomous community has to make. You here are in breach of the Constitution and of course the statutes of autonomy and that of Andalusia of course. This way of financing the autonomous communities shows, as they have already said, that what they had to do is bring a new model of financing of autonomous communities, but they have not dared - they have said - for Catalonia. Well, you should dare, if you have an overwhelming absolute majority, you could do whatever you want. Perhaps Catalonia would suffer, I don't know, but they had to have opened up to debate here a new system of financing the autonomous communities. On the other hand, this bill - in its title it does not appear - creates one more fund - there were seven and this number eight - to finance the health system. It will be a kind of FLA, but, as always, in return they put some conditions that are very important. This, as has already been said, is being done behind the back of the Interterritorial Health Council. Now that Montoro speaks enough; he can no longer speak to the Minister of Health to touch the health of the autonomous communities. The Government is well aware that the health system is underfunded in the Autonomous Communities. That was recognized a long time ago at the Conference of Presidents and has not been changed again, so everyone has assumed that it is underfunded. Now they put in a health fund and those who welcome, which will all be because all communities are with the water around their necks, commit themselves to that health spending will only increase the growth of the average GDP. This means that the Government is putting the autonomous communities under a rule of health spending. Autonomous communities already have a spending rule. If an autonomous community meets its deficit target, debt target and general spending rule, why can't it devote whatever resources it wants to health care? Why does the People's Party government want to cut the health investment? In addition, if you skip this rate a little bit - here's the important thing - the Government forbids you to approve the portfolio of supplementary services. This is what the Government was pursuing, that the autonomous communities should not be free to create their portfolio of complementary services. There are communities like Andalusia - I have to name it, even if it makes its bench nervous - which has the lowest per capita health expenditure in Spain and the largest service portfolio in the State. In addition, it has met the deficit and is one of those with the lowest debt. Maybe the People's Party can't stand that. This barbarity has been included by the Government in an amendment; that is, it would have been seen only in the Commission and approved with the 23 votes of the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. As it seemed to my group that this was not discussed in plenary and that the minister did not dare to bring it into the law and explain it in plenary, we have put forward a particular vote so that this amendment should be voted in plenary and that all the Members of the People's Group should vote, once again portray the way in which the Government resolves with cuts in spending and reducing the capacity of the autonomous communities to establish their policies in the health system. They have the opportunity to withdraw it, discuss this in the interterritorial council that will be held on the 20th and then seek solutions. I am finished, but I do not want to stop talking about Amendment No 64 to say, as my fellow Navarro, Mr Moscoso, conveys to me, that any reform affecting the constitutional bloc underlying the Navarra Foral Regime requires consensus. Therefore, it does not seem to us - we agree with Mrs Barkos's argument - that this is the most appropriate way of resolving it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u94	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u95	I'm running out of time. Like the other groups that have come up here, we will vote no to this bill. You are already used to passing laws alone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. Mr Azpiazu, first of all, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in principle I did not intend to go up to this rostrum as the draft law initially envisaged the creation of funds which did not affect the outside regimes, but rather the model of common system financing. But since the People's Parliamentary Group has introduced an amendment to the Health Act, I have no choice but to go up to this rostrum and denounce it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it seems to us to be absolutely shameful how you proceed. In any project, decree or initiative they are able to introduce - and usually do so through an additional provision without giving face to the projects so that we do not know their intentions - a real legislative bomb - as in this case - to boost the autonomic framework. All right, gentlemen of the People's Group. Moreover, they do not explain it or comment on anything, they intend to destroy that legal framework - I insist - by the back door. They do not even comply with the minimum rules of fair play or democratic respect. I know that unfortunately what the Basque Group can say to you right now comes in through one ear and comes out through another, as is commonly said - i.e. that a cigar is smoked - but I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, to be sensitive to our position and to deal with this amendment in a way outside of this bill, to remove it from this bill and to deal with it in another way with light and stenographers. As I say, they are doing so today through a new final provision amending the General Health Act. They give it - that is - appearance of economic rationality; and I say appearance only because what they do in the background is to limit the ability of the autonomous communities to act in the health field, and not just those that receive the liquidity funds that were supposed to be created with this bill, but all of them. The measures to be taken through the amendment have been known since June 2014, as explained by the justification. However, they are introduced through an amendment that has not been processed through a regular procedure, i.e. following consultations, relevant reports, etc. Therefore, in our view, it is a constitutional fraud by circumventing precisely the political debate at the governmental, even pre-legislative and parliamentary levels through an amendment on the occasion of another draft, a situation which is repeatedly occurring on the part of the Group of the European People's Party. In this way, any involvement of the Autonomous Communities has been stolen, both within the framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and within the framework of the Interterritorial Health Council. They would deserve, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, that we should even withdraw from the plenary because we cannot legitimise this debate that we are conducting. They intend to impose measures of an organic law, which is that of stability, designed for the entire budget of the administrations, only on a sub-spect of a specific section by means of an ordinary law. This is the case with pharmaceutical expenditure, which is not envisaged as such in the said organic law to which I refer. Neither article 135 of the Constitution nor the organic law covers the imposition of obligations and sanctions for non-compliance with the factual assumptions that the amendment seeks to introduce. Nothing has to do with the set of stability obligations contained in the Organic Stability Law with the plotted vision that is obtained from the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, not sending the information to the Ministry of Finance about pharmaceutical expenditure can assume that the Ministry of Finance prevents the autonomous communities from being in debt. Honestly, doesn't this seem like a real overstatement to you? Article 112 of the Health Act, which you want to amend, literally says: the requirement of compliance will indicate the period, not exceeding fifteen calendar days, to meet the unfulfilled obligation with notice that after the said period will be made public the non-compliance and the adoption of the automatic corrective measures provided for in article 20 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April, in accordance with article 27.7 of the said Law. If we go directly to the above-mentioned article 20, we can read that automatic correction measures will require the authorization of the ministry - and of course it will be for the ministry to deny it in case of non-compliance - and if the required information does not reach the ministry in the way it requires, the ministry will be able to prevent the autonomous community from going into debt or also that it can reach agreement with the State administration on subsidies or investments. Frankly, gentlemen of the People's Group, this seems to me to be a genuine aberration, as the moderns say, an authentic past. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, health agreements should be adopted within the framework of the Inter-Territorial Health Council and financial aid and agreements, provided that they are in communities of common system, within the framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and in the Joint Commission of the concert in the case of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi or the Foral Community of Navarre. Moreover, incredibly, the Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs is empowered by this law to agree to amend or revise certain provisions, from 107 to 110, relating to the delimitation of pharmaceutical expenditure, resulting in a lack of knowledge of the system of sources. The delegated commission has no regulatory capacity to amend articles of a law. All the information obligations envisaged should be distinguished, in relation to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, in accordance with the third final provision of Organic Law 2/2012 on budgetary stability. This morning I was telling them, when we were talking about the validation of the royal decree brought to us by the Minister of Finance, who used the law of the funnel to hire public workers, thus limiting the ability to act and the development of public policies, such as health and education. Moreover, I have just received the following information, which the Government requires more information and denies the Basque Government for the public offer of Ertzaintza. I have the documentation here, although I do not have time to explain it, but it seems to me to be an uncollaborative attitude, an attitude that seeks to make administrative and political action difficult rather than facilitating it. It is a deplorable attitude, gentlemen of the People's Party. As I said, what they want to control now is not just the staff, even though they say that they are the autonomy of the world's greatest power, but to the limit of pharmaceutical expenditure, not content, I insist, with the application of 135 of the Constitution, which by legal imperative we respect and meet the overall objectives of the public deficit. If we already meet global goals, why do they want to be biased? What do you want, to set up a police system to control absolutely everything? It seems absolutely insane to me, gentlemen of the People's Party. This is not a new spirit, this is the spirit that is seen in many projects and initiatives that, unfortunately, you bring to this House. I insist that we meet the global public deficits, and now what they want is to control each and every one of the parties. In addition, if an autonomous community moves out of those limits, rather than trying to reconduce it and dialogue, stick and tempt. That's the system you know. I have to say as loud as you want and clearly that this is, amen of a shame, a scandal and a very serious intrusion, which, in our opinion, surely violates the Constitution. If this is adopted, and hopefully not, if that amendment is withdrawn - it is better not to be dealt with, but, if it is dealt with, if it is done through a bill in which at least we can discuss and put our positions on it - it will be absolutely unconstitutional. For these reasons, we will vote against both the amendment and the opinion of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u98	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the People's Group, Mrs Romero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u99	Thank you, Madam President. This law implements measures that are beneficial to the autonomous communities and to the municipalities, regardless of the political colour of their governments. It is a good law for all territorial administrations, especially for their neighbours, who receive public services. That's what this bill is about. Much has been said here about what is not regulated, but there has been no talk about what it contains, to make noise and not to talk about the benefits of this law. The bill amends the Lofca to introduce a financing mechanism to cover debts owed to local authorities by the Autonomous Communities, which is essential to ensure continuity and quality of the provision of social services. To this end, an electronic register of conventions is created, which will allow monitoring of the agreements signed and in force between communities and municipalities. In this way, if there is a breach of the payment obligations laid down in these agreements, the State may act to ensure that the injured city council covers. But I have heard left-wing spokespersons here reject this measure, and we ask ourselves: can anyone be against who actually provides the services copper? Ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomous Communities are free to provide services by their own means or by delegation. No one imposes anything on them. What they can't do is delegate it and load the mochuel to the suffocated local arks and, on top of it, don't pay, because in the end they collapse the services. Honestly, I don't know if you know the local reality. I don't know if you know what the reality of providing this service is. It is not a question of such or such a party; it is the mayors of all political parties who, on behalf of their neighbours, ask for a solution. In my land, in my province, in the Roda de Andalucia, the mayor made hunger strike for collecting social services. At Barcelona City Hall, all opposition groups reached an agreement to demand that they be paid. Another so much happened in Tarragona and so on in each and every one of the peoples of Spain. The mayors provide the services willingly, sign the agreements, want to collect it and then they can't, and that also cuts their spending for what they really have to do. The Government has put a solution on the table with this law. This measure aims to pay off a shameful debt amounting to more than €700 million with local corporations in social spending. But it goes further; with this law, the Government aims to ensure that not only the outstanding bills are paid, but that in the future the educational, health and social services provided by local entities are adequately funded. To this are opposed those who presume of social sensitivity. Well, less sensitivity, less talk and more facts. Secondly, the draft law amends the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. The Act is adapted to the new additional funding mechanisms of the Autonomous Communities and technical adjustments are made to the community debt rules, as well as to collateral and collateral. Here again I insist on what I have already said in the Commission. We are open to negotiation with CiU, which would mean accepting Amendment No 15 by the Canary Islands Coalition and 57 by the Socialist Group. The draft law improves the mechanisms for strengthening the financing and liquidity of the administrations; mechanisms that over these years and until 2015 will achieve savings for the autonomous communities of loan interest by 22,647 million euros, and of 3,467 million euros for local corporations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that liquidity measures must, in turn, be subject to fiscal consolidation and financial prudence, because without these demands, liquidity and financial guarantees are nothing more than a quimera. The law creates an instrument to support the sustainability of pharmaceutical and health expenditure, voluntary adherence for the autonomous communities; I repeat, voluntary adherence. A number of groups with suspicious views have emphasized this issue, when here it is a question of providing liquidity again, so that they can access more high-tech services and services which, in another case, they would not be able to access. I insist, we are open to dialogue throughout its process, which is taking its course now in the Senate, and I ask you to exercise seriousness, because, as always happens, here you will criticise and tomorrow you will welcome this mechanism. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not a receipt. Now I am going to talk about what has been demanded here by those who only bet by confrontation, by noise; those who never bring solutions. They talked about the reform of the autonomous financing system. They wanted us to reform them when the revenues of the state had fallen more than 70 billion euros. They wanted us to reform them, and there are amendments calling for them to be reformed by 30 June, when there are autonomous elections on 24 May. Who do we sit with on the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council if autonomous governments are not yet formed? It is a zero political and financial vision which, in addition to demonstrating that they only want to make noise, finds that they do not have the capacity to propose. The truth is that they could have put amendments that put something more than date and time, and what I have seen are amendments in which they do not put a model, as is the case with the Socialist Group. The last model we have is the one that Rodriguez Zapatero had - you have become very velvety - which is the one that we apply now. The then leader of the PSOE and President of the Government said it was a historic success, a model of autonomous financing to create the true state of autonomy; an equitable system against which there were no solvent arguments, and you now argue against it. What reason did you have for not submitting amendments by defining what model you had? Do they not dare and say where they are what suits them? What do you want, that financing rotates by GDP as they applaud in Catalonia or pivots by population as they demand in Andalusia? What do you want for Murcia or Galicia? They have nothing clear about it; when they are clear, also present it to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is where it is discussed. Here they have presented model date and time, but proposals, none. Let us be serious, the Government in times of crisis has done what it has done is to strengthen the funding of the autonomous communities and local entities. Liquidity mechanisms and a financial contribution in favour of territorial entities have been carried out, designed and implemented as had never been done in Spain. We are talking about more than €184.167.2 million, of which more than €130 billion has been earmarked for social policies, health, education and social benefits in this country. Those figures are the reality, those figures are the commitment of this Government to the State of self-government. Mr. Salvador, be assured that this Government and this group will be open to negotiation, because this Government and this group have always respected the historical and native rights of Navarre as set out in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the additional funding provided by the Government of Spain to the autonomous communities and local authorities has had a very beneficial effect for all, especially for the institutions that have been able to respond to their commitments by paying what they had to pay. Many self-employed and SMEs have taken over and the neighbours have maintained their services. From the People's Group we do not understand, after what we have been through, that some again bet on the unsustainability of public accounts. It is outrageous to see how the very ones who made Spain have an unsustainable financial situation and that when they saw the coming avalanche dissolved this House so that others would stop the alluding, now ask again to spend without control, the consumer fever of public money and to pretend to pay our children and grandchildren bills. I remind you that it's not that there were bills in the drawers, it's that there were bills that were even in pesetas. To those, to whom the bills were owed, in many cases they had to close their business and fire the workers for the defaults. However, we see with perplexity how its autonomous leaders access liquidity measures, access credit with the government's endorsement, and here they confront measures that are welcomed and then benefit them. Frankly, this is of great political and institutional disloyalty. Since 2011, when Spain closed with a deficit of 9 %, all administrations have made an effort to reduce the deficit of the whole state; in 2012 and 2013 the deficit was reduced; public administrations closed 2014 with a deficit of 5.7 %; and the IMF made a forecast in its Fiscal Monitor report which was published yesterday for 2015 by 4.3 % and in 2016 by 2.9 %. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our results, we do not settle for the 9% that you left us. The economic results certainly allow hope that the end of the crisis can be addressed. But we must continue to work, all together and without rest, to end unemployment and ensure that all citizens, live in the autonomous community of the municipality that they live, receive the best public services from the competent administrations on an equal basis. For that reason, and in order for this law to be put into effect because it is beneficial for all, I ask for your vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u100	Thank you, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u101	The next item is the debate on all legislative initiatives. First, the debate on the bill amending Act No. 43/2003 of 21 November 2003 on Montes. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment has the floor for her presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u102	Thank you very much, President. I have the honour to appear before this House to introduce the bill amending Act No. 43/2003 of 21 November 2003 on Montes, pursuant to article 149.1.23 (a) of our Constitution, which confers on the State exclusive competence in basic legislation on mountains, forestry and environmental protection. This bill amends aspects of the existing law that could improve and integrates new European standards that emerged during these years. Some problems, such as fragmentation of forest property, which is highly atomized in some regions, result in a lack of economic profitability in forest activity. This leads to the abandonment of the mountains with the negative consequences that result from it. This has not been sufficiently resolved under the current law. The high economic and administrative costs, as well as the complexity of the management and planning of our mountains, lead to their abandonment and to the possibility of being transformed into potential fuelwood warehouses that can burn in the face of extreme weather conditions, as we unfortunately see every summer. Mountains are a fundamental part of the environment and an essential part of the rural environment and the treatment of the forest sector must be comprehensive and inclusive, as the problems affecting mountain management also affect the rural environment, affecting the population living there. It is therefore necessary to improve the national legal framework for the forestry sector in order to achieve better managed, more cared for and more protected mountains for the benefit of our environment, including the wealth and employment of people living in rural areas. The purpose of this bill is to optimize the social, economic, environmental and cultural functions that characterize the mountains and that the forestry sector optimizes its contribution to the sustainable development of the economy. The main objectives of this change are to protect biodiversity, prevent forest fires, combat climate change and improve the economic use of our forest resources. The conservation of the mountains is a key part of the protection of the biological diversity of these spaces that have been subjected to human influence since ancient times. The best way to conserve and protect the biodiversity they store is to manage them sustainably. Similarly, all experts state that sustainable forest management is the best barrier to protecting mountains from fires. In addition, the fight against forest fires and the sustainable management of our mountains are very important weapons in the fight against climate change. Sustainable forest management achieves adaptation and mitigation of the effects of climate change, being the sinking mountains of greenhouse gases. A sustainably managed stock is gradually adapting to climate change and can better combat desertification. On the other hand, the growth of the species that grow in our forest territory is almost twice the amount of wood that is used in it. This continued accumulation of biomass results in the danger of fire and increased severity and reduced forest productivity. In addition, it is the aim of this Government to boost the rural environment and ensure adequate livelihoods for its inhabitants. We cannot deprive them of the possibility of having new opportunities to defend and improve their interests. We must make sustainable use of the available resources that generate income, that generate jobs in the rural environment precisely for its inhabitants, that are the people who inhabit it and that care for it. This Government, ladies and gentlemen, particularly supports local development. The Plan for the Socio-economic Activation of the Forest Sector, adopted by the Government at the beginning of last year, made a diagnosis of the forest sector, which included the following aspects: the small size of forest ownership, the low management of mountains and the low level of associationism in our country. The result of this diagnosis is some of the amendments contained in this bill. I now turn to the most relevant aspects which this bill seeks to improve and which are the instruments necessary to achieve the objectives set. It is an objective, as I have pointed out, to improve the management of the Spanish mountains. To this end, first of all, its classification is changed, because the current law was confusing in its treatment. The new classification is based on two criteria: ownership, according to which mountains can be public or private, and the possibility of affection for a public service. In this way, separate and independent categories are established, so that a mountain can only belong to one of them. Public holdings are de manial and also perform a function of general interest. Private mountains that perform a function of general interest are protective mountains. The mountains which, being of public ownership, do not fulfil a function of general interest are heritage. And, finally, there are particular mountains whose ownership is private and does not fulfil a function of general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, with the existing legal obligation that all mountains with a surface area greater than that determined by each autonomous community have a management instrument, it is not taken into account that not all mountains are equal and have the same environmental value and do not perform the same functions; only their size is considered. The previous model, with the simple legal obligation, has not proved effective and the proportion of piles ordered remains low. The bill before you today imposes this legal obligation on public goods and all those who perform a function of general interest, which is given ten years after the entry into force of this law which is presented today to fulfil that obligation. At the same time, management instruments are simplified, facilitating and encouraging mountain holders to have a management instrument and to comply with it. It is therefore a question of replacing a model based on the enforcement obligation of the law with a system that encourages administratively that each holder has the most appropriate management instrument and that is most appropriate to him. The draft law provides for simpler and less forced forest management for those mountains that are considered by the autonomous communities. They will be able to establish management models adapted to the reality and typology of their mountains, to which the owners will be able to adhere and thereby assume the management commitment according to the model adopted by the autonomous communities. This model, effective and simpler, joins the other management models, which remain as they were established. In order to encourage management, the provision is maintained that ordered mountains only need to declare the use of wood to the forest organ in advance, without the need for authorization, except in the case where the use is among those to be subjected to environmental impact assessment. The bill, however, maintains the requirement of prior authorization for the use of unordered mountains. The exception in the case of short-shift farms, i.e. less than 20 years old, remains in force and small-scale farms, i.e. those with less than 10 cubic metres of wood, are added. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the successive de-amortisations that have affected our mountains, there are a million and a half hectares of mountains whose ownership belongs to several people, some of whom in many of these projects are unknown - these are the so-called partner mountains -. The additional provision provided for in the current law has made it possible to begin to manage some of these mountains. This bill provides a solution to all of them after the experience gained in these years and provides for a specific framework that will allow them to be managed without the need for agreement of all owners, given, as I say, that they are often unknown. To this end, and without prejudice to the civil procedures for the accreditation of the ownership of the identified non-proprietary parties, the vacant parties, a management board shall be established which shall include all known owners, and the presence of the four-fifths of them shall be sufficient for their validity. This management board shall be constituted as a community of assets, with the capacity to assume the acts of administration and management of the mountain, and shall notify the General Directorate of Heritage of the existence of vacant quotas. The General Directorate of Heritage will investigate its ownership and will finally decide whether to incorporate it into the General Administration of the State or increase the known quotas. The benefits from the management of the vacant parties will be invested in the improvement of the mountain. Forest companies are also regulated as capital companies or pooled management instruments, without loss of ownership of the area to promote mountain management and the generation of economies of scale. It is a group of owners of plots that can be used for forestry purposes, which assign the rights of forest use to the society created indefinitely or for a period of not less than 20 years, whose social purpose is the joint exploitation and exploitation of forest land. Its partners preserve all Sunday privileges, with the exception of forest management, given to society for a time in exchange for a share in their benefits. The aim is to avoid the impossibility of exploiting fragmented forest areas, as well as to put in management large forest areas now abandoned or semi-abandoned and to get their introduction into the productive circuit of the rural world. All this will allow the rational and sustainable exploitation of forest products in the mountains, and their protection will generate economic activity and social development, will contribute to creating new jobs and thereby curb the depopulation of the rural environment. This bill includes measures to combat illegal logging of timber, which is the main cause of deforestation on a global scale, and does so through the fight against its associated trade. In this sense, the draft law includes measures that allow the effective application in Spain of the European Union regulations on combating illegal logging with the utmost administrative simplicity for our forestry sector. The new law provides that public administrations shall cooperate in the field of their competence to ensure the legality of wood and its derived products introduced into the Spanish market and determines that agents opting for an individual system shall submit a responsible declaration to the competent autonomous body, which shall lay down the content of the declaration. To facilitate this work, the traceability of this system and the infringements and sanctions it entails, information registers are created that allow any autonomous administration to easily monitor forest products, both domestic and imported, and to trace the different steps they take through different autonomous communities or abroad. This makes it much easier to comply with the obligations imposed by the Community timber regulation. At the same time, the transmission of information to the European Union referred to in that Regulation shall be facilitated. The bill, in turn, provides for the introduction of the gravity of the damage caused as one of the factors, together with the delay in recovering the previous situation, which modulates the gravity of an offence, so that not only serious or very serious will be the offences that take a long time to recover, but also those that cause large-scale damage, even if recoverable in a relatively small time. Other aspects to be highlighted in the bill are as follows. Regulation of road traffic by forest runways. Traditionally, an unclosed runway has been considered transitable unless it is closed or the circulation is expressly prohibited. The 2006 amendment prohibited access to any runway that had not been visibly permitted. With the current change, the autonomous communities are left to choose one or the other model, with the obligation to allow access to fire-extinguishing vehicles, surveillance and management vehicles, and marking the obligation to regulate it, but above all maintaining the legal security of citizens above the model that each autonomous community determines. The 2006 Act provides for several exceptions to the impossibility of changing the use of forest land within 30 years of being affected by a fire. Nothing was required for this change of use and the possibility of the exception depended only on the time of administrative processing. Today's possibilities under the 2006 Act are supplemented by an additional one that requires that there be declared to be compelling reasons of first-class public interest in the burned area. In order to ensure full transparency of this new exception, compelling reasons of first-class public interest will be required to be declared by a law-class rule, which requires prior consultation with advisory bodies and broad public consultation. In addition, for these cases, a replacement of a surface equivalent to the one that has changed the use is required. The bill in turn seeks to promote forest plantations in abandoned agricultural land as an element in the fight against climate change. These plantations capture greenhouse gases, generate wood and are used - they can be used - on agricultural land that would otherwise be idle. Every cubic meter of wood that is thus obtained relieves the pressure on primary forests outside our borders, diminishing the ecological footprint of our industry, helping to combat climate change. In order to promote these plantations, which are usually short-cycle, soil characterization is eliminated as a mountain in these cases. The planting is subject to forestry legislation and when the production cycle is over the holder can choose from any forestry or agricultural crop, as the soil continues to maintain - it has not lost - this latter qualification. The aim is not to prevent with the change of irreversible use the use of agricultural land and pastures as forests temporarily with the aid of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. The functions of forest and environmental agents are systematised: they do not change their characteristics, their functions or their obligations and coordination with members of the security forces and bodies is improved when both participate in the same investigation, which occurs in approximately 2% of cases. The forest or environmental agent is responsible for identifying and interpreting evidence that may lead to the clarification of alleged criminal acts and the agent of the security forces and bodies is responsible for establishing the chain of custody of the evidence and conducting the investigation leading to it. These are the tasks that are currently marked by the legislation in force, so, as I have said, this draft does not bring anything new to the current situation. The status of agents of the authority of forest and environmental agents is maintained. Their duties and powers in police, administrative, forestry and environmental work, as well as the generic nature of judicial police, are also not changed with regard to the current situation. The new text provides for a way to ensure that coordination with the competent bodies in criminal investigations, which are the security forces and bodies, is rapid, fluid and reliable for the benefit of the investigation itself. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my presentation, I would like to comment on the inclusion of measures for the management of kinegetics and fish stocks which the draft law envisages. There was a need for harmonization and coordination of important aspects for the proper exercise of these activities. To this end, in collaboration with the autonomous communities, the Ministry will develop a national strategy for kinegetic management as an orientation and coordination framework for the national management of kinegetic and fish exploitation, which will be approved at a sectoral conference and will contain aspects such as the regulation of hunting licenses, veto periods, kinegetic repopulations with indigenous species, the regulation of the hunting of migratory species, the regulation of the introduction of alien species, among others. The national register of hunting and fishing offenders is also established for the recognition of hunting and fishing licences among those communities that so decide. The existence of this register will facilitate the implementation of the mechanism of mutual recognition of hunting licences between autonomous communities, mutual recognition initially signed by four autonomous communities: Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y León, Madrid and Extremadura, to which - to this, as I say, mutual recognition of hunting licences that will facilitate a licence to allow its hunters to hunt or fish throughout the territory of the autonomous communities - the autonomous communities of Asturias, Galicia, Aragon and the Valencian Community are joined. However, it is intended to promote healthy mountains that support our great biodiversity, as well as promoting the positive contribution to the global cycles of carbon and water, the protection of populations and infrastructure from natural disasters, as well as income generation and employment creation in rural areas, as well as the excellent conditions for providing recreation and cultural values for all. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u103	Thank you, Minister. Let us look at the amendments tabled to this draft. Firstly, we will give the floor to the members of the Joint Group who have amendments, and then to those who do not. We started with Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the draft law gives precedence to the Spanish forestry strategy together with a reference consideration that subordinates the forestry policy of the autonomous communities, being reinforced by the regulation of the Spanish forestry plan as its instrument of development that overlaps with the plans that the autonomous communities draw up in forestry matters. There is therefore an emphasis on clearly limiting and conditioning the adoption and implementation of policies for the planning, management and use of own forest resources in each territory. This repetition of schemes already known in the Spanish forestry policy is totally unsustainable because it means a uniformizing forest model that makes it difficult to adapt in certain territories because it is diametrically different its forest reality, which leads to conflicts over the exploitation and uses of the mountain and thus its abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has suffered from an aggressive forestry policy on the occasion of the implementation of a model that is alien to its interests through an increase in its forest area in contradiction with other uses of the physical environment, especially agriculture, for the implementation of fast-growing forest masses, which has also meant a deterioration in the ecological quality of the Galician mountains, considerably reducing their diversity. This forestry policy was initially designed by the State when the regime was dictatorial and has had continuity in the constitutional regime since this unitary idea of forest governance has been maintained and this bill re-launches and strengthens not the planning of the forest masses framed in a strategy with a sustainable perspective, but instead re-implements a strategy of general forest planning over the entire territory of the State controlled by the General Administration of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree to move towards the management and planning of forest land, but from administrations or agencies close to its reality and according to specific criteria that may have the capacity to decide on the most appropriate method of exploiting the uses of its mountains. It draws attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the open door to be removed on the basis of an indeterminate criterion and that it may be arbitrary to prohibit the requalification of burned land for a period of thirty years when in certain autonomous communities such as Galicia there is a special incidence and concern for incendiary activity in mountains, in addition to that it should be a faculty reserved for each autonomous community to determine the uses of burned land, given the differences in the causation of forest fires in each of them. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been incorporated into this draft law on environmental agents and has also been done without informing its representatives or the autonomous communities where they perform their duties. This is a questionable regulation because it is partial when a comprehensive treatment of the status of forest agents should be addressed under a minimum common denominator of the profession that allows for the necessary development by the autonomous communities on the basis of their specificities. The drastic measures taken by the Government against the above-mentioned public officials involve virtually the total abolition of forest and environmental agents, their autonomy to act in the exercise of their functions as generic judicial police, including depriving them of the possibility of making a simple attestation, involving the text of the proposal in an incomplete regulation, generating legal uncertainty and serious contradictions with the criminal procedural rules contained in the current Criminal Procedure Act. We take this opportunity, Madam President, to welcome an important representation of these forest actors who, legitimately and fairly, are demanding that the Government rectify and reflect on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of the need to have management plans on private and public uncategorized mountains, reducing control over forest use to the detriment of biodiversity conservation...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u105	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u106	I'm done, Madam President. ...or to regulate hunting in a law that does not correspond to it are also reasons to request the return of this bill. Finally, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister and the Group of the European People's Party to reflect on this draft law and that the procedure which is pending for partial amendments can improve the text in the direction in which we are presenting our amendments and which is being called for from the forestry industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u108	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a greeting to the group of representatives of rural agents who are with us today. Minister, today they are reopening the door to making forest fires profitable for speculators or, in other words, this law of mountains, far from protecting them, absolutely encourages their burning. So much so that, at the same time, this law takes away from forest agents their rank as judicial police, thus making it difficult to clarify, detect and obviously also arrest the pyromaniacs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the famous phrase that said: the forest belongs to everyone? Well, after the passage of this law this afternoon, if the forests are burned they will no longer be of all, but they will be of the speculators, they will be of the brick industry, they will be of those who inflated the real estate bubble that has burst into our face. Therefore we say no to the Mountain Law, stop to the Mountain Law of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame, a blow to the citizens that their recipes to get out of the crisis pass by returning to the path of unbridled construction, but it is also an environmental attack that is at the expense of natural heritage, as they also - in fact, they do not discover anything - with the Coast Law. Not only do they destroy ecosystems, but they are stealing our natural wealth, which is a collective heritage, and they do so to benefit private interests; private interests that have not had any ethical problem in defrauding and disposing of families at the same time. Imagine the repairs you will have to destroy the natural heritage. On the other hand, in line with this perversion, this law increases the duplication of powers between the bodies responsible for protecting the environment and worsens responses to possible criminal acts. They want forest agents to pursue small administrative offences, while virtually all environmental offences go unpunished. For example, forest fires to the detriment of wildlife, destruction of natural spaces, death of protected species or polluting discharges will not be pursued. They hear it well, they won't be persecuted. The Government has decided to attack 6,000 forest workers, including 500 rural workers in Catalonia, limiting its ability to investigate environmental crimes despite being the body best prepared for the protection and comprehensive prevention of the environment. They want forest agents to act only in an auxiliary manner and if they discover facts that may constitute an environmental crime, to hand over the evidence to the Security Forces and Bodies, preventing them even from writing a simple certificate. I'm going to say it clearly. What they do is to subordinate an official specialized in environmental protection to another person who is not and who, moreover, does not have the means to ensure that the environment is properly protected. In Catalonia, the Rural Agents Corps drafts and brings before the judicial authority around two hundred attested annually for alleged environmental crimes and forest fires. The Environmental Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has repeatedly - not only once, but repeatedly - congratulated the Rural Agents Corps on its investigative work on environmental crimes. More than half of the environmental crimes in Catalonia are directly investigated by this body, which obviously has a presence throughout Catalonia. I'm done. This law restricts the activities of rural workers and not only this, but prevents them from protecting the environment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, minister, not the law of mountains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you are insecure of discouragement. Once again, we are faced with a bill that is totally contrary to the objectives set, a clear step backwards in the work of improving, preserving and caring for the mountains as natural assets of such a transcendental social, ecological and economic function. Again, let's put the scissors - in this case, the chainsaw - in order to reduce the efficiency and environmental guarantees in the protection of forests and the natural environment. It is an unnecessary bill, which does not respond to any social interest and which would lead to a serious setback towards citizenship and environmental heritage, hence the strong social response of the affected sectors, and I take the opportunity to greet the collective that accompanies us today. Moreover, with the excuse that it is basic legislation, it proceeds to re-centralise, to strengthen the state competences in this field at the cost of undermining the exclusive competences that Euskal Herria holds in our case. In other words, competitive and also clearly counterproductive interference. Let's go in parts. As far as the environmental aspect is concerned, we are in addition to the discomfort expressed mostly by the environmental forestry services in response to the attack on their activity. The outlaws - in our case, Nafarroa, Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia and Araba - hold exclusive competence in the matter of mountains and have been exercising their functions of management, conservation and control according to their responsibility and the value we give to this resource. The reforms proposed here do not respond to any need in their work. They do not mean any improvement in their functions or in good management of the territory and of course they mean an invasion of our sovereignty in every rule. We cannot admit that their functions remain effective and efficient, that they are being removed from the management and conservation of the environment that they have been developing for 150 years. In addition to the serious shortcomings in the handling of this rule, drastically subordinating this group of officials to the State Security Forces and Corpses, lowering them to the category of auxiliaries, among other things, would prevent them from investigating environmental crimes, create terrible legal uncertainty and open the way - which you like so much - for private companies to move on to do the job that belongs to the guards. We are very clear that in the defense of nature there is no one left. Attacks on the environment must be fought in a coordinated and not subordinate manner in the way you propose. With regard to the possibility of construction in burnt areas, the amendment to lift the 30-year veto to build on land that has been affected by fire is more dangerous than a piranha in a bidet. Everyone knows - and that is what has generated social alarm - that without that limitation the door opens again to speculative fires. Let us be clear, by opening up that possibility for the prevailing general interest - a concept so subjective, ambiguous and exposed to friendships and private interests - and still being intentional the first cause of forest fires, we are giving rise to intentional fires to proceed with requalifications. This is how you protect not the forests, but the interests of your little friends. Another step backwards is to raise the non-compulsory nature of the project for the management or technical plan for the management of wooded areas. We believe, like the sector, that it is a fairly effective instrument in managing the mountain from sustainability and that it must also have the property approval. The elimination of its compulsory nature without providing other effective solutions that compensate it would open the door to more abandonments, more fires and the possibility of destroying unordered mountains without anything happening. It is another renationalization because, by forcing the use of planning and management instruments according to uniform criteria of action throughout the State, they place our country in the role of mere implementer of such plans. Another thing is that they make us swallow with a series of state registers on different issues related to the mountains and exploitation of forest services that, although they are disguised as mere advertising or consultation instruments, advance another step in the re-centralization of functions and competences in which we are sovereign. And what are we going to say about hunting! It is unacceptable that regulations on montage should include regulations on hunting and fishing, which is our responsibility. In other words, recentralisation and regression in everything that touches. For Amaiur it is clear that this bill, in addition to deepening the re-centralisation and invasion of our sovereignty, worsens in basic aspects the environmental protection and deepens the environmental deregulation, which is the saint and sign of this legislature as evidenced by the wide response it has had in the media, in the street and here today by the sectors directly affected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u111	Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u112	I'm done, Madam President. Nor does it favour rural development and job creation at all, and we therefore call for the withdrawal of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Ariztegui. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. We share the criticisms and amendments made by both forest and environmental actors - that is why we wanted to accompany them out there this morning in their rejection of this law - and those made by environmental organizations to this bill that is born again without any consensus. We understand that the People's Party continues - already started its predecessor, Mr Arias Cañete - with its policy against the environment. We started with the Coast Act and the National Parks Act and now we continue with this Act, which does not provide any improvement in the comprehensive forest management of our mountains nor does it provide necessary measures to safeguard forest ecosystems, forest fires and rural development. This law puts in the first place private interests vis-à-vis the public - people who have already told me - especially the interests of some lobbyists, such as hunters, the paper and wood sector, etc. This law is especially bloody on two issues. First of all, it is particularly worrying that forest and environmental actors are being devalued, a collective, in our view, fundamental to the protection of natural resources, to which this reform seeks to reduce their roles and responsibilities by putting on the ground the great task of education, prevention and prosecution of crimes against natural resources that this collective has been carrying out. Secondly, the door is opened to the immediate requalification of burned land under the premise that it can be declared of public utility, a statement that is left in the hands of local administrations and that has been used very arbitrarily. I remind you of one example: the burnt land on which Terra Mítica was built. Our vote will be negative for a text that ultimately does not improve forest management or the fight against forest fires, rural development or forest ecosystems. We would ask them to reflect on and withdraw it before approving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u115	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Why is it that groups so disparate and so different - plus those that are still missing to come - we agree on the same concepts when criticizing this bill, when deciding that this bill is not what should come? That phrase of virginity, virginity that remains to me as I am, seems to apply right now. That is to say, we prefer the current Montes Act; we prefer it because the amendments proposed by this bill do not benefit at all. It seems like a purely technical bill, but it's very political, like everyone else from his department, because his predecessor made it clear that he was going to be a very political, very centralizing, very Spanish and very national minister. Whatever it is to recover what you understand to have yielded - not because it corresponds to the autonomous communities, but because it is a transfer made by the State - you have to recover it yes or yes. This is one more of the same issues, because it is a legislative product characterized by a number of structural elements that are becoming commonplace in all the laws that are coming and in many of the legislative initiatives formulated by the Government of the State in recent times. In this way, under that umbrella of basic legislation, you decide on the basic legislation applying 149 to everything that is led to; and in this case by 149.1.23.a, for example, the Government is strengthening state competences in this area to the detriment of those which the Autonomous Communities have exclusively in this sector. Moreover, on the pretext of collaboration that is not such, but rather a coordination led by the State, the mechanism of sectoral conferences is used to obviate any hint of asymmetry that could be articulated in the relations between the State and the autonomous administrations, and more specifically in the case of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. At the same time, you indiscriminately implement the requirements arising from the commission for the reform of public administrations, known as CORA, splattering the exercise of the functions associated with this subject with the implementation of a series of state registers on various issues related to mountains and forest exploitation and services. On the one hand, they re-centralize, assume competence, use the sectoral conference for what is not and, on the other, they invent a series of artifacts, such as the famous national registers or plans, etc., which claim that what is already transferred and being used, in some way can be used to re-direct these policies from the metropolis; in the end, that is the central drawing of this bill. It is the strong vision of a State that seeks to refocus competences, functions and powers through any of the initiatives within its reach. Similarly, the strengthening of the presence at sectoral conferences has another relevant consequence, which is manifested in the increased use of instruments for planning and managing public policies in a specific area, in this case relating to mountains, resources and forest exploitation, resulting in the State planning tools being used to control the matter in question, introducing uniform criteria for action with almost absolute disregard for the exclusive competences of the autonomous communities in this area, leaving these competences relegated to functions of mere implementation of those instruments. The attitude is rather perverse in this sense; a series of mechanisms are created so that it cannot be said that the autonomous communities are not competent; no, they are the ones who carry out the orders given from Madrid. In addition, with the aim of strengthening a centralist - I repeat - or state view of this matter, the Government has, as has been repeated, resorted to the role of market unity in another attempt to gradually regain autonomous powers: hunting, fishing and kinegetic species. To this end, it incorporates ad hoc instruments. You have incorporated a new instrument, which is the national strategy of kinegetic management and the Spanish registration of hunters and fishermen for that purpose. It has been said by other colleagues, and you know it perfectly well, that the subject of hunting is an exclusive competence of the autonomous communities, which are competent in this field. I don't know why they wanted to stick their finger in this story, maybe to please the hunters, etc. In this regard, the laws that each autonomous community has in this area are sufficient, clear and competent in all this. Besides, it's kind of a mattute, because they've put something into this law that might belong to you somewhere else. In any case, it is another incursion into a competent matter that is not yours. In the social environment, some of the contents of this project are preceded by an important response. This is, on the one hand, the provision which you make in paragraph 61 of the single article of this amendment of the law, which incorporates a new paragraph, by which the autonomous communities are empowered to - they say so - in the face of compelling reasons of first-class public interest, which must be assessed by law, to derogate from the prohibition of change of forest use, at least for thirty years, on burning forest land. Why do we all smell the same thing? It is not that we make an analogy with the issue of fires, but that we all smell the same with this modification. From different parties involved in this sector, a kind of incentive to burn forests is transmitted for the purpose of re-qualification of the corresponding land for urban purposes, which is the logical consequence that we all draw. Because, if not, what is the reason for this change? We don't understand. On the other hand, from the measures derived from the CORA, which are also used for this law, as other colleagues have commented, forest agents - whose representatives accompany us and whom I greet - are stripped of their character as public officials. This is very intentional and very premeditated, because they cease to be auxiliary to justice and become auxiliary personnel of the Security Forces and Corpses, so they can only act as administrative police in the face of facts that may constitute administrative misconduct. In addition, the functional reduction of these agents and the loss of their functional nature is perceived from the union world too, because we have received that complaint, as a masked formula, as other groups have cited, for a future privatization or possible privatization of this service. Finally, the text in question exempts certain types of mountains from the obligation to have instruments for the management of these areas directly linked to the territory and natural resources, for which article 45 of the Constitution obliges the public authorities to use them rationally in order to protect and improve the quality of life and to defend and restore the environment. What we have said in this speech is that, in the light of all these precedents, certain modifications are clear because the State is empowered to lay down basic rules on the conservation and sustainable use of forest genetic resources; in the area of hunting, the exclusive competence of the autonomous community is violated by this modification and, in the same sense, the State is entrusted with the management of the instruments necessary for the development of forest genetic resources. We believe that the allocation of powers to the State for the adoption of common basic guidelines for sustainable forest management infringes exclusive autonomous powers. We believe that the inclusion and exclusion of mountains in the catalogue of mountains of public utility should be done by agreement of the highest governing body of each autonomous community, thus violating their competence for the organization and allocation of their powers and functions. We believe that the creation of the National Register of Protective Mounts under the authority of the ministry concerned violates the autonomous regulations for the keeping of forest registers, and since judgment 71/1983 on the catalogue it has been established that these sectoral requirements are the property of the autonomous communities, as you well know. We also consider that Article 36(5), by assigning powers to an administration other than the holder of the mountain for the disposal of products or services from manial or public mountains, is not only contradictory to paragraph 1 of the same article, but is not aware of the matters in which the assets of the local entities holding the listed mountains are subject. We also believe that when you set for the State the minimum shift, for the purpose of taking advantage of short-shift spaces in twenty years, the competence of the autonomous communities to regulate this matter is unknown since they do not quote it, as it is a matter of exclusive competence of these communities. You, with the amendment of Article 61, create the National Register of Cooperatives, Enterprises and Forestry Industries. It should be raised under which constitutional protection this register is created, since it is established that sectoral registers on forest matter are also owned by the autonomous communities. Therefore, I believe that there is more than one invasion, more than one infringement, more than one ignorance that I do not consider to be involuntary, because you know that when you have amended this law, that it precisely modifies all those issues that I have cited and that all of them affect on the same flotation line: I award myself what was decided in its day that they were the competence of the autonomous communities and the Constitutional Court will then come to say that I am not right or, perhaps, to say that I am right, because we all know what the Constitutional judgments are like. Madam Minister, I hope you will withdraw this project. We are not going to support it, so we have amended it in its entirety, although we also know about mathematics. We know what the configuration of this Parliament is and we will wait for the stage of partial amendments so that we can introduce those which we consider appropriate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, representatives of the forest agents. Madam Minister, the first thing I have to do is to congratulate you because you have again achieved something that seems to us to be complicated, but in what this government has enormous skill, and it is to create laws that are cross-cutting in the rejection that you provoke in the opposition, so that you get us to agree on a number of amendments or objections groups that in other things we rarely agree. In this case, once again, we agree with many of the arguments that have been put forward here, such as those that have to do with the fact that we are against depriving forest agents of their status as public authority, that the way in which the treatment of forest fires is dealt with is extremely dangerous, which opens up the possibility of privatization of forest nurseries, etc. Before entering into these more detailed issues, I would like to state whether this law was necessary or not. It seems to us that it is a regressive law because it returns not only to an economicist treatment of the mountain and quite alien - to what I shall now refer - to what is the situation now of the mountains in Spain, but also it is unnecessary because it does not improve the previous law. We think that a law needs to improve it or reform it to improve those aspects that are insufficient, that have become anachronistic or backward, Here none of that happens, in fact there is a kind of back to previous models already surpassed by anyone, expert or science, or whatever, that tries to address the management of the mountains. This is a very serious issue because in Spain there has been a truly curious and striking phenomenon, which has been the growth of the forest surface. As we always talk both, as it is natural, about the fires and their impact, a news also very interesting and important as is the growth of the forest road in Spain does not usually appear in the media. Therefore, it may not be a very well - known news, but there are some surprising facts. For example, Spain is the third country in the European Union in forestry, after Sweden and Finland, nothing less. We have twice as much forest area, recognized as horn, that France, a country a little bigger than Spain on the surface. Between 1990 and 2010, despite forest fires, the forest area increased by no less than 35% and is still growing at an annual rate of about 2%. That is to say, we are talking about that every year in Spain there is 2% more monte, of different types of monte. Different types of montage because this growth is largely due not to planning or an express will to increase the forest area or to forest environmental conditions, but to the abandonment of rural environments. In other words, much of this mountain growth in Spain has been due to the abandonment of fields and the traditional management model that has existed for a long time in many generations in many of these mountains. To this we must add that one of the consequences that this has had for Spain is not exactly good, and that is that we have some territories that are tremendously unpopulated in gigantic sizes. In Spain there are some territories with almost desert population densities that are the size of some European Union member countries, which should also be discussed and addressed. For this type of social, community and geographical problems, the Montes Act is extremely important, because it is a question of dealing with a problem or a subject, as you want to call it, which has a lot of records. There is, of course, the environment, the agricultural and economic uses, but there is also the geographical, the demographic, because Spain has not been able today - although there are European funds that have not been used - to find a model that allows a sustainable population in agricultural means that have been abandoned, precisely in rural areas, because no alternative activity has been found, and not because we lack the means or know what types of models are needed to achieve this reuse in a creative, environmentally sustainable and also economically interesting and positive sense of the mountains. Well, this law not only does not go into any of this, but it brings us back, as I said, to those old models that see the mountains as hunting or fishing, to which you have given great importance. However, it does not cease to be paradoxical because even though these are very important activities in some regions, precisely because of their marginal economy, today it is not considered - because it is a nineteenth-century way of focusing on the matter - that the forest or the mountains are above all hunting or fishing grounds. Although these activities have no doubt their interest, especially for hunters and fishermen, they are quite marginal within the importance of terna itself. To review the contents of the law and the reasons why we amend it - although we have already said so - and ask for the return of this law to the Government, it is that it includes a treatment of the figure of the forest agent that we cannot share, but that it is also cheating because if your Government, as it has shown many times, does not even have the slightest intention to expand, I do not say to complete to one hundred percent, the Civil Guard staff, neither will you increase the Seprona. If we take away forest agents' capacity to exercise public jurisdiction and we are not going to increase the Seprona because there is no intention of containing public expenditure, what are you going to do? We will go to what is happening in all other areas of work: covert privatization, moving to private security companies functions that are now much better served by forest agents. We cannot agree either with the mentality or with the measure or with the consequences. More topics, to which have also made several allusions other groups. We are in favour of a clear division of jurisdiction] between the State, autonomous communities and municipalities. This law makes what is already a competition chaos worse]. Moreover, those who say that they invade exclusive autonomous powers, which in this case are very reasonable exclusive autonomous powers, are right, because the State does not have to enter all levels of the Administration, much less, but those where it is effective or irreplaceable. So why does there have to be a state law that talks about hunting and fishing, if this is not going to create more than competition problems and double management. That is, we are going to go to a duplication of administration services, when it should be your Government's first goal to eliminate them all because they create unnecessary and inefficient spending and administrative problems and legal uncertainty. I would add that this law also creates legal insecurity, one of the most serious problems we have in our country, because in the end there are terns, concepts or issues such as hunting and fishing, which are fragmented in their regulatory regulations and can even contradict each other. See, for example, Statutes of Autonomy, Constitution and such laws that enter there as a poacher in cacharreria. On the issue of treating the possibility of recovering burned forests, you may think and perhaps try to convince us that the treatment of the previous existing law is too rigorous and does not allow for flexible management, but what you do is introduce the typical ambiguous extralegal concept that you do not know what it means. That is, what we will understand by general interest for the requalification of burnt areas - this is an extraordinary ambiguity - or who defines what the general interest is. Why doesn't this law do it? Why does there have to be another law that develops the law? Have you not heard that of Cicero that the most corrupt republic has the most laws? Always be with the same thing. Laws such as sausages cannot be produced; laws that contradict each other, which are very complicated to interpret, which create problems for the judges themselves and for the lawyers, in short, for the administration of justice. Other issues that we find incomprehensible. The obligation to have management plans for uncategorized mountains disappears. In the end we have a cataloguing of the territory, but without an overview of how we have to interact and live with greater and better environmental protection and exploitation of these resources. Moreover, by reading the law in its literal tenor, it gives us the impression that they understand the idea of - let's see how they say it - sustainability and rational exploitation. Exploitation is a truly concept of these of the epoch of economicism. If something is not taken advantage of, if it does not produce an immediate monetary benefit it seems to have no profitability, but it is not true. The operation and management of the mountains has many types of profitability. Apart from the environment and many others, it also has even energy profitability or, rather, it could have if its own Government had not penalised the exploitation of biomass, which is a substitute for traditional uses, very interesting to fix population and there is a productive economy in mountain areas, and which turns out that the successive, endless, contradictory and lamentable real decree-laws that have brought even more chaos into energy policy have been penalised. If the exploitation of biomass is facilitated in many forests, especially Mediterranean forests, which are then burned because there are no longer agricultural uses that clean the forest, we would have the double objective of having clean mountains and also local energy production in the form of sustainable self-consumption and that could be regulated perfectly without prejudice to anyone else, with profit for the whole world. They do not enter into proper tax treatment either, they do not develop things that are cited in the law that sound good but then have no development and therefore remain in declarations of intent. I say to you that, finally, it is a law that returns to that old, outdated mentality of the mountains as a forest exploitation and, it does not come to appreciate things such as its ecological value, the possibility of ecological restoration of heavily punished areas and, above all, the fact that we face this phenomenon for which we do not know any effective policy, nor anyone seen it anywhere, of how Spain faces the challenge of being a developed country with many almost empty territories and which are being filled with trees, not because there is a will for them to be filled, but because no one lives there anymore. This is a fundamental problem of land management, of a country project and, above all, for the autonomous communities that suffer the most, which are also - of course - those that in many cases have the most problems of economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a missed opportunity. With this law none of this is achieved; we become an outdated model. They create problems for forest agents who do not deserve, open uncertainty, legal uncertainty and it is also a model of exploitation of the mountain - I tell you - of the Maricastana era. Therefore, we ask you to take the law and give us back something that we can vote on or at least amend, and not ask you to take it home again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u119	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, representatives of forest and environmental agents - a sector most affected by the application of the proposed amendment of the law presented by the Government - from the point of view of the Plural Left the great question we open is what interests move around the draft amendment of Law 43/2003 of Montes: the protection of the common good, the protection of the natural environment or the defence of the private interests of a few under a purely economic forest management criterion? It is clear that the proposal does not seek to protect the biodiversity that characterizes our mountains, nor to promote the generation of economic activity through the promotion of initiatives and activities and services related to the protection of the environment and the natural environment. We do not see that this protection is the priority of the bill submitted by the Government and it is not - as it was not in the Costas Act or that of the national parks - because the model of environmental sustainability that characterizes the Government of the People's Party is precisely deregulation, the loss of public control, in short, prioritising private interests and businesses rather than defending the common good and the general good. Why has the Government not sought the necessary consensus and insisted on taking a step back in the development of the bill? It has made it possible for the affected groups, at least the majority, to oppose this project: forest workers, the main trade unions, environmental and environmental organisations, the College of Biologists and Forest Engineers and parliamentary groups. No fewer than seven amendments have been tabled in their entirety. Something will not be done well in the handling and in the proposal of this bill when, in the parliamentary sphere but also in the social and economic sphere, the proposal submitted by the Government is not valid for the management of the mountains. The changes to the law do not incorporate substantial improvements in forest management, invade autonomous powers and sectoral laws, constitute a serious setback in the necessary forest planning and management, degrade and humiliate the figure of the forest and environmental agent, and allow for requalifications and construction in forest and burning areas - it must be remembered that it is currently prohibited - with the risk of fires for clearly speculative purposes. Instead of promoting public control and forest management instruments, they eliminate them. They have replaced prior administrative authorisation with a responsible declaration and, for cases where there was a management instrument, the prior notification regime is also replaced by a responsible declaration. On the other hand, the regulation of certain aspects of kinegetic management, in addition to having no room and being absurd in a Law of Mountains, implies a clear invasion, a rule-of-rule invasion of autonomous competences. Let's face it: it eliminates the ban on building in a burned area, opening the door to the urban classification of burned forests and, therefore, opening the door to the implementation of activities that have nothing to do with mountains, forest management or the protection of biodiversity. In 2006, the Montes Act introduced a ban on the change of forest use of burned areas for a minimum of 30 years, and now this project eliminates the ban, allowing for the change of forest use in a burned area, opening up the risk of fires for speculative purposes. The elimination of the ban on building in a burned area is a typical aberration of a government with a short-term vision that only watches over the interests of a few, It seems the last attempt to perpetuate economic development in a brick stroke, which runs counter to the common sense and the general interest of the citizens of this country. We do not have the justification that change has an objective horn to prevent arson from preventing actions of general interest. What we want is to avoid cases that, under the umbrella of the general interest, have already occurred in our country, such as that of Terra Mítica in Benidorm or the Ski Meseta in Tordesillas, with artificial snow and in a burnt ground, therefore, the general interest is not seen anywhere. The compelling reasons of public interest are no guarantee of anything. The two examples I have cited are perfectly clear. Spain has also been sentenced on three occasions by the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to comply with this requirement. With regard to the reduction of elements of forest management and environmental guarantees, instead of promoting forest management instruments, they eliminate them by reducing environmental guarantees under a purely productive view of the mountains. Control over forest use is reduced, forgetting the conservation of biodiversity. They allow the approval of model forest management models, which makes it possible to dispense with the development of a specific planning instrument for each mountain or forest land. This could lead to the need not to apply for prior authorizations or communications to the environmental body, which would prevent in practice the monitoring of the uses and uses of the montage. - It is clear from paragraph 46, which amends Article 32.4-. They have abolished the obligation of management instruments for private non-protective and public uncategorized mountains, and in those cases where a forest management instrument is to be available, the time to have it is extended from fifteen to twenty-five years, further extending the period without forest planning. Not five or ten, twenty-five years, the equivalent of an entire generation. Is that space reasonable to have a forest management instrument? They eliminate the Natura 2000 Network from the assumptions to include it in the public mountains in the public utility mountains catalogue. They also remove the Natura 2000 network from the preference for incentives. The bill makes it possible for public mountains to host economic activities that have nothing to do with the production of goods and resources of a forest nature. In the opinion of this group, the conduct of service activities must be directly and necessarily linked to the protection of the environment, They have replaced the prior administrative authorization with a responsible declaration, in the woody and woody farms of short time, in the mountains not managed by the forest organ of the autonomous communities and in which there is no management instrument. The reduction of control by the Administration can cause damage to the biodiversity associated with this type of forestry. Moreover, we do not understand why it is precisely to exploits of rapid growth, which are the ones that generate the most environmental impact, that they are exempted from prior administrative authorization. - Again the economic criteria on the table. In addition, in cases where such a management instrument does exist, the prior notification regime is replaced by that of a responsible declaration by the holder of the autonomous forest body. Forest agents. They are the eyes and the safeguarding of our country's natural and environmental heritage. It is still paradoxical that the Spanish Association of Forest and Environmental Agents, Workers' Commissions, UGT, the Unified Police Union, the Unified Civil Guard Association, environmental and environmental entities and all the groups that have preceded me in the use of the floor are clearly opposed to the Government's proposal. Incomprehensiblely, they degrade and humiliate the figure of 6,400 forest agents that our country has. Not only do they eliminate from their definition their status as officials, which we believe could lead to the privatization of the functions of police, surveillance and custody of the natural heritage, but they also subordinate forest agents to the State Security Forces and Bodies. Why is it assaulting a historical body that has 140 years of history? To privatize them? I recommend to the Government the withdrawal of this entire paragraph referred to in the proposed amendment of the law. The proposed text runs counter to the Constitution - article 126 and subsequent normative development - since the judicial police, a clearly developed action by forest agents, are subordinated to judges, courts and prosecutors in their functions of investigating the crime and discovering the offender, and not to the State Security Forces and Bodies. They introduce an element of legal uncertainty in the performance of forest actors, which would become mere assistants to all the State Security Forces and Bodies, giving an incomplete and unrelated nature to the procedural legislation of the draft text. They make unequal and arbitrary treatment of forest agents in their capacity as judicial police in respect of bodies of a similar nature, such as the Customs Surveillance Service or local police, which are collaborating and not auxiliary - I insist, not auxiliary - to the State Security Forces and Bodies. They subordinate forest agents, thus leading to a loss of autonomy and efficiency, since the development of the same public function will require the participation of several public employees - forest agents, on the one hand, and State Security Forces and Bodies, on the other - where it is not currently necessary, thus complicating the actions. What we need is proper coordination between forest agents and State Security Forces and Bodies. Both bodies have to assume the functions and specificities that are their own for the investigation and clarification of environmental crimes. In fact, as far as we are aware, there has been no problem at all in the courts because of the fact that he instructs the attestations. By the way, there have been conflicts when certain autonomous communities have tried to subtract substantiality from the work of forest agents, pretending to take control of their actions, curiously autonomous communities governed by the People's Party. What we see is that this body is uncomfortable to them, the body of forest agents and, if it comes up with its proposal, would eliminate a body that has been the creator of sound environmental complaints, such as the one that originated the construction of a mansion of the Oriol-Aznar family in the heart of the Cabañeros National Park, with a minor work license, or the construction of two polo fields in a private farm of the Guadarrama Regional Park, or also those that originated Supreme sentences against large electrics such as Endesa, for their responsibility in forest fires caused by high voltage lines, or the condemnation of a large Catalan quarry company for illegally dumping a river in a protected land of the Alcarraz Rice swamp in Lleida. We have already talked - I agree with the voices that preceded me - about the invasion of competence of the autonomous communities. Hunting and river fishing - the Constitutional Court is very clear in its jurisprudence - are exclusive powers of the autonomous communities. The opinion of the Council of State makes it very doubtful that the Montes Act is the appropriate place to regulate aspects relating to hunting and fishing. I'm done. The People's Party is in favour of a minimal and centralized state, a minimum administration, a minimum environmental control, and that is what the government has brought to us. Mounts, regardless of ownership, are subject to the supervision and protection of the public administration. The public good, the common good - let us be very clear - is always above the private good and of course the loggers, paper mills, cinegetics and brick. That is why our group has tabled the amendment in its entirety and recommends that the Government withdraw that proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u121	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, before I began my speech I wanted from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to wish you the best of efforts in recovering the ship sunk in the waters of Gran Canaria. I hope that the lessons learned will take effect and we will put ourselves at your disposal as a Socialist Group on any issue that we can bring forward from our group. [[The lady]] Firstly, I greet the forest and environmental actors who are accompanying us today in this forum, and who have been waiting a long time for this debate, not only waiting for this debate, but also waiting for the consequences this debate will have on the mountain and also on its particular figure. I rise again to this rostrum to denounce the legislative drift of Mr Rajoy's government in environmental matters and I say drift, ladies and gentlemen, because again they change an environmental law without a political project that justifies it and without a strategic project in environmental matters. It is a proposal which, first of all, lacks an alternative model and which once again shows its main weakness as a government in a global way that is nothing other than short-termism and courteousness in the way of legislation. They amend, for the third time in ten years, the law regulating mountains which, by definition, are long-term projects and which require stable and continuous management. But the main questions we would like you to answer, Minister, are: Why do they amend this law? Who claimed it? What problems will it solve and, above all, who will benefit? It is a profuse, diffuse and confused law, a legal brick that does not define the model, does not allow territorial subsidiarity and does not illuminate where we want to go. What, then, is the purpose of this law? That is the question we need to know. This legislature will pass into history the legislature of the greatest environmental involution. It has led decades of struggle to create an acceptable protection system with the most developed countries. The legislative voracity has been extensive and profound. The environmental damage of this Government is not going to be easy to correct quickly. It happens to them in this area in the economic and labor area, it has not been a matter of economy or crisis, Minister. It is not a question of anything other than a retrograde ideology that has not even dared to make explicit here. In each and every initiative they have tried to pervert the meaning of words by trying to deceive with implausible explanations. It is not that they lack a little skin or that they do not know how to communicate their decisions - no, minister -, what they lack is actually something much simpler and what they lack is the ability to tell the truth and not to treat citizens as if they were manipulated beings. Excuse me if I put you in front of your mirror, but you've had enough of filling your laws with straw, of giving strange explanations and so it's possible to disguise. They try to hide with their environmental laws intentions with artifacts so thick that they don't even deceive those they claim and don't even like those of their trust. It would have been as simple as telling us all in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, that the mountains seem to us to be a beautiful place where animals and plants live, and that is very good, but that at the moment everything has to give way to the need for economic profitability and, therefore, it is necessary to look for as many ways as possible for exploitation. It seems to us that surveillance should be left in the hands of private companies that come out much cheaper and do it better than the officials who give us so much can and these environmental agents who denounce illegal mansions in Cabañeros and who are annoying. Therefore, it seems to us that this could be done differently. It also seems to us that everyone against fire is very good and very deserving, but if the mountain is burned and there is an offer to build, it is built, because that also generates employment and a few will generate wealth. It is much easier to address citizens in this way, Minister. Pardon the tone of my speech, if it is too informal for you, but what I have just said is far more sincere than all those laws that have brought to this House, full of straw - as I said - which means absolutely nothing. In fact, we don't like, we don't like at all what the law of mountains intends to do, and you know it. I am going to comment on some of the issues that seem to us to be most serious. In our view, it is completely impossible to justify the possibility of reclassifying burnt land. That the burning of a forest could have a medium-term impact on the urbanization of such burned land would mean giving weapons of mass destruction to criminals and speculators. Allow me to make a minimal argumental journey, because I think it is important. Unfortunately, in this country we have suffered for a few years an economic orgy of the brick in which everything was worth. In that kind of Chicago twenties, in some places the vortex of urban speculation was installed that seemed to be beneficial to some municipalities and their inhabitants, but it was actually feeding a vicious circle of corruption and actions that have surrounded it too many times or that have violated the law. We have all learned lessons, and one of the most important is that we cannot tolerate this kind of action being repeated. They cannot be repeated with any party, under any circumstances and at any scale. We cannot prevent temptation from appearing, nor can we make people incorruptible, but we can make the laws make it difficult, and that is why we are here. In the face of the competences of the administrations and governors who have competence in urban planning, the democratic system must counterbalance rules of general scope that avoid temptations and excesses. Well, in our view, this bill of mountains is not balanced because it grants excessive power in the event that an autonomous community may have an interest in requalifying a mountain, even when it does so with the best of intentions; we do not talk about intentions, we talk about protection of rights, of higher values, of perspective. This mountain bill does not make it difficult on the road to excesses, but makes it possible. It's not simple, I know, but it's possible, and if it's possible, it's not worth it. It is not acceptable that there are exceptions to the change in forest use of burnt mountains for compelling reasons of first-rate public interest. Do you know what those reasons are called? They're political decisions. Any political decision is likely to be justified as in the public interest of the first order, but there are higher values. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that it is a kind of distraction that you have deliberately included in this law, a trick so that we do not stop at other aspects of the law and that you intend to withdraw it from the very beginning. I wish it were! I don't think this is an ideological issue; I think it's a terrible idea that you need to rectify before you get older. To be clear, the Socialist Group believes that there should be no exceptions for building on burning grounds. The second of the important aspects of the law I would like to dwell on is the regulation of forest or environmental agents, not so much the name, as the dedication and the competences. They know that they are recognised and valued by this group, that their demands are reflected in our amendment as a whole and there is no doubt that we will continue to work together in their parliamentary process. If this bill were passed, it would be extremely difficult for them to report crimes - the previous spokesmen have said -. In addition, explicit subordination to the State Security Forces and Bodies, in particular the Civil Guard, significantly undermines the capacity for complaint and action. Don't do it and don't fear it, says the saying. If we all agree that the law is to be complied with and that surveillance is essential, there is no rational reason why we want to reduce the intervention capacity of agents who have this mandated surveillance mission, to the extent that I have been able to contrast, with an effectiveness that no one has questioned, no one anywhere. From our point of view, forest agents are a group of officials who have excellent training and which, in addition, moves them the involvement in their work, the love for what they do and for what they care for: the mountain. Obviously, it will not be a collective that is now very happy with the work of this Government, and has reason not to be. But that should not be a reason to degrade them, it should not be a reason to abolish their status as judicial police, it should not be a reason to punish them. Rather than coordinating actions that may coincide in terms of equality in the interests of better protection of the environmental good, it has been preferred to delete from a pen capacities and competences that may be decisive for the prosecution of environmental crimes. Rightly, and for the reasons that led to the beginning of hidden plans and half-truths, we do not know whether their plan really is to privatize the functions of forest agents. Dismiss him, Minister, if you will. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you believe that forest agents do not have to be public employees? Do you think mountain surveillance should be privatized? Do you think private security companies can do these tasks? It's okay. If so, say so. But say it. It's a political option. There'll be someone who likes it. We don't like it. Of course, it does not bother us that there is a body of demanding and independent officials who denounce anyone who makes a mansion in a national park or who hunts illegally, whoever it is. That Spain of the innocent saints for us has passed long ago. It seems to us another of the grave essential errors of this law that would in itself merit the return of the project. Thirdly, we are concerned about all the issues in which the law recedes and which entail another cut in the rights of citizens under article 45 of the Constitution; another further cut in the right to environmental protection. Instead of proper planning of species that can best be adapted to each habitat, they enhance the planting of fast-growing species. This law enables us to see again those piles of eucalyptus in areas where there were previously pine trees, habitat and landscape, land and climate, twisted by a bad decision of men about nature. Do we really want to go back to this policy? Do you really want to convince us that this is a policy that promotes sustainability and promotes the fight against climate change, Minister? Other examples. Instead of proper planning of the uses and a weighted fit of what each potentially aggressive action means, shielding itself in the reduction of administrative burdens, authorizations that were previously necessary disappear, for example for the cutting of trees. This is another of the perversions of his Government that seeks to make political dogma universal, which is an ideological choice of party. The need to authorize felling of a tree is not an unnecessary administrative burden. It does not benefit all citizens, it does not represent an economic advance, it does not save public funds. What it does is the same as its orientation: to prioritise the particular interest over the general interest. Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. I am concluding my speech. From here I would like to take this opportunity to make an amendment to the whole of the mountain law but of its entire environmental policy. Since the beginning of the legislature, in a parallel sense to the devaluation of the labour market, the plan drawn up was certainly also to bring about the degradation of environmental protection, so that the environmental costs in Spain are equal to those of developing countries. The People's Party government has made our competitiveness for businesses based on putting labour costs and environmental costs at a balance price. The current Government of Spain has endeavoured to build a model of a brown economy that despises renewable energies, privatizes environmental public goods, degrades them and puts them at the service of private interests. The Socialists do not know if we are right in everything, we are surely wrong in many things, but we certainly do not seem at all in political philosophy or in the actions of the Government. From here, I want to proudly claim the policy of environmental protection that was followed in our governments, in the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, with our ministers Cristina Narbona, Elena Espinosa and Rosa Aguilar, here present. They and they were able to orient environmental policy towards the true meaning of sustainability, built consensus and progressed. How much we miss people who believe that in environmental policy! You have only taken three years to realize the greatest known involution in the democratic history of Spain. Let us hope that they will consider the issues that we allege in our amendment and, above all, that they will hear the cry of the citizens and of all the parliamentary groups that have spoken here, and that they will rectify in environmental matters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. Mr Barberà has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill which has been approved by the People's Party Government amending Act 43/2003 of 21 November 2003 in Montes has received a number of refund amendments. From the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió we have not tabled an amendment to the whole because some of the innovations introduced by this bill are adjusted and allow the implementation of the lines envisaged in the Convergence i Unió programme in the field of forestry and its sustainable development, and they are also aligned with the policies being implemented by the Government of the Generalitat. I'll highlight some of them. To begin with, I would like to highlight the novelty of considering mountains as green infrastructure as an inspiring principle of this law. We share that they constitute natural systems that provide first-class environmental services. The concept of multifunctionality of forests is also recognized, its ability to perform various economic, ecological and social functions simultaneously, with none to the detriment of the others. This idea is fundamental to us and to our position before this legislative initiative. We agree to consider forest land as a fundamental part of the rural world. It must contribute to its development, while serving as a key space for the maintenance of biodiversity. I would like to point out that from a social point of view it is not only important to have a playful service on these grounds; it is also necessary, essential, to reinforce the fundamental value they have in job creation, and this change makes it possible and allows it. With regard to the classification of forests, the dual criterion of ownership and allocation to a general interest is maintained, which is the factor that must mark the management of which they are to be subject. These affected forests maintain regulations and records that allow them to control with guarantees their special protection and safeguard. This bill continues to influence the need for planning as the best way to ensure sustainable forest management, but at the same time it is simplified by incorporating the possibility of adhering to a model type of forest management of each duly approved Autonomous Community and which can replace individual instruments, provided that the Autonomous Communities so permit. This measure will allow forest management through flexible instruments and, most importantly, at a lower cost to small farms. We also highlight the promotion of voluntary, transparent and non-discriminatory forest certification as a tool for sustainable forest management. In the field of forestry, the current system of authorisations and notifications is maintained, but the obligation to notify after use and only for statistical purposes is introduced. This initiative coincides with the improvement of the statistical field, which must be implemented by the autonomous governments, with the aim of allowing the improvement of the traceability of own products to ensure the legality of the origin of forest products. The initiative has an impact on compliance with existing European regulations in this area, by putting all means in place to prevent the introduction into the European market of timber and forest products of illegal origin. The national register of cooperatives, enterprises and forestry industries is established to serve as a tool for monitoring the traceability of forest products and also as a source of statistical information, a necessary basis for forest planning. With regard to mobility, access to mountains and the use of forest trails, which were previously generally prohibited, the decision is now left to each autonomous community, which must legislate on this issue. Perhaps here is the difference, in the sense of a competent invasion of this bill, because in Catalonia in this respect we already have our own legislation in this area. Therefore, since Convergence i Unió, we have no problem in that the State grants us more competences and responsibilities in this matter, as in another aspect, which other groups have criticized and which we assume with total responsibility, which is that it is the Generalitat of Catalonia that marks when a public interest can cause some burned land to have another use, that it can be urbanistic or it can be agricultural; it may not be urbanistic but it can be agricultural and have other functions and not be unproductive for so long. And I take this opportunity to say that, in the area of competition, our powers in the field of hunting and river fishing have been violated, and it will have to be corrected. If not, it will have to be the Constitutional Court that withdraws this competitive invasion and, as the Council of State's opinion says, it has been very good that with the previous law the Generalitat made different constitutional remedies. I continue with the positive aspects. Another aspect, in which we fully agree, is the necessary economic revival of the forest sector, in this case through the grouping for management purposes that is achieved by the introduction of forest societies, defined as the grouping of owners of parcels that can be used for forestry purposes that give the rights of forest use, indefinitely or for a certain period of time equal to or greater than twenty years, to the forest society. Partners maintain all property privileges except forest management, which is given to society for a period of time in exchange for profit sharing. The sectoral conference on agriculture and rural development and the National Forestry Council are established as bodies for the coordination and participation of forestry policy, the composition, organization and so on, which will have to be developed on a regulatory basis. These are the incorporated measures that we welcome, but this legislative initiative should have incorporated other measures necessary to further improve sustainable forest management, should be more ambitious, and in this regard we will present our partial amendments. The definition of forest land should have included facilities related to a first processing of wood that do not have significant added value, so that these activities do not need to be located on industrial land that can make them economically unviable. In farms without a management plan, the possibility of a communication regime should be left open in the case of exploitations with the declaration responsible for a duly qualified technician. It introduces the need for areas declared to be at high risk of fire to have a defence plan, with conditions that exceed the content of the prevention plans, as they deal with aspects of surveillance and extinction. We should leave this content as an orientation and not as defined in the current wording. With regard to forest agents, rural agents, with different names and functions in the rest of the State, we propose to delete articles that want to modify their functions, such as article 6.q. Subparagraph (q) aims to assign auxiliary functions to forest agents, rural agents. We believe that they should continue to act as hitherto, in a complementary and coordinated manner with the Security Forces and Bodies, a reason which you have justified and which is already being fulfilled. This initiative limits the capacity of forest and rural actors to act and research. We will also call for the deletion of the amendment to Article 58 because it limits the investigative capacity of forest agents, rural agents, to investigate environmental crimes and relegates them to act in an auxiliary manner. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud of the work of our rural agents, the degree of coordination with other bodies of the administration and their dedication and effort in the conservation of the territory. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your presence and to greet your representatives. Minister, the mountains provide society with many kinds of environmental services. However, its holders or managers and the same mountain do not receive any economic return in return. It would be necessary to reflect on the implementation of measures to compensate for the environmental externalities provided by the mountains through their sustainable management. We believe that in order to promote the activities and investments that are dynamic in the sector and generate a positive perception of society, this legislative initiative should incorporate a basic measure that involves the implementation of a specific taxation for the forestry sector, to adapt the forest masses to climate change and to consolidate forests as the heart of bioeconomy within the framework of the European Union's sustainability objectives. Therefore, reading the various amendments as a whole, we see how they reflect very different ways of addressing the challenge of sustainable forest management. The Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió hopes that the bill will be supplemented during the course of the procedure with our partial amendments, which will propose measures that lack the government's initiative and that we believe are essential to bring about a qualitative leap over 64.2% of the area of Catalonia that is forested and that it should allow its ecological, economic and social potential to be developed, and to reconsider the changes that negatively affect rural agents, forested agents, and to leave it as it was working properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Barberà. Mrs De Lara has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to express my strongest support for the bill to amend the Montes Act submitted by the Minister for the Environment. I do so, ladies and gentlemen, from a deep conviction that the measures contained in the rule that we are discussing today will contribute to improving the management of the Spanish mountains, to the conservation of biodiversity, improve the prevention of forest fires, contribute to the fight against climate change and increase the mobilization of forest products and the economic exploitation of the mountains. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from these considerations I can only show my amazement and indignation at some of the manifestations which have been repeated in defence of the amendments tabled in their entirety and which show, in general, a profound lack of knowledge of the text we are discussing and of its consequences on the Spanish mountain and the forest history of our country. As your ladies and gentlemen will know, the Spanish forest areas account for more than 27.7 million hectares, 54.35% of our country's area. A characteristic feature of the Spanish forest structure is its enormous superficial fragmentation and the great weight of private forest property. About 70% of the forest area is privately owned, with an average size of about one hectare and the owners of the mountains are responsible for their technical and material management. However, as your ladies and gentlemen will also know, one characteristic of the sector is the low economic profitability for the private owner and, as a result, the shortage of investments in forest conservation and improvement treatments for the Spanish mountains. It should also be remembered - the spokesman of Convergence i Unió has also said - that the mountains provide society with multiple environmental services of first order, such as the regulation of water cycles in quantity and quality, the capture of greenhouse gases, avoid erosion, are a landscape resource of rural tourism and a long et cetera, but its owners or managers and the same mountain receive no economic return in return. With these premises, ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge rejection of many of the demonstrations that have taken place in the previous rounds and others that have not been expressed today, but which appear in the motivations of the amendments as a whole. Of the latter, I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that of the Socialist Group in its motivation, when it says - at the same time - that from the contempt of the public, as is customary in the Government, the bill introduces private management in the mountains. When I read this motivation, I wondered what Mrs Lucio was referring to, is it that she does not know the Spanish forestry reality? Do you recognise that 70% of the forest area is private, or is it perhaps your socialist rule that you want to expropriate the mountains so that the state can manage them? We really don't understand his motivation. I am not going to repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the goodness of the law, which the minister has already done in her speech, but I am going to focus on three aspects, three fallacies, which have been repeated here all afternoon. First fallacy: It is allowed to reclassify for urban purposes the land burned, something typical for the Plural Left of a government that only watches for the interests of a few; the Socialist Group goes further when it claims that the door is opened to criminals and speculators. False, Your Honor. Although the parliamentary groups have repeated this machaconically - because it is the only motivation they had, since I could assure you that none of them have read the text of the law - I tell you that this is false, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law maintains the ban on forest use change due to fire over a period of thirty years and, exceptionally, the autonomous communities - ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous communities, their respective autonomous communities, to which they seem to be very afraid - will be able to agree on the change of use when there are compelling reasons of first-class public interest, which must be approved by law. This excludes by its very nature any private interest, any speculative interest, of many or few; only in the case of infrastructure of high public interest is this exception applicable. Ladies and gentlemen, this exception to the change in forest use was analysed and accepted by the Council of State with the only recommendation introduced in the text to put, instead of reasons of general interest, compelling reasons of first-class public interest, a nomenclature that someone criticized, but you must know that the nomenclature is what the Council of State has indicated. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that under this very name, the same one that you were criticizing today, the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, adopted in 2007 with the support of the whole left, contains the same mechanism and exact denomination to allow for actions nothing more and nothing less than in Natura 2000 territories. What happens, ladies and gentlemen, that when you propose something it is good and when you propose it the People's Party government is not? When proposed by the People's Party, does it have to be speculative and sinister? Ladies and gentlemen, demagogy has a limit and I believe that you have gone beyond it today with your reasoning. [[Applauds]] Mrs Lucio - I see that you are not, that you have been absent - your statements and the motivation for your return amendment suggest either a deep ignorance or an attempt to manipulate reality, demagogy or bad faith and clearly indicate that you have not read the text you are amending and that you are still immersed in an opportunistic radicalism that has imposed your Secretary-General. Second fallacy: Forest and environmental agents are despised and degraded. False, ladies and gentlemen. Forest agents do not change their status at all. If we look at the existing legislation, all the existing legislation, ladies and gentlemen, in the area of criminal prosecution, the State Security Forces and the judiciary, we will see that their capacities and powers are not changed at all or their obligations. Nor is it necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because forest agents do an excellent job that I want to acknowledge here and now, as I have done on many occasions over these years. I take this opportunity to greet you and welcome you to this Congress of Deputies. As I said, forest agents are agents of authority. They do not lose any competence, ladies and gentlemen, they will be able to continue investigating and denouncing how many conducts they understand coming from, as they did before, and in addition, it will be the administration on which they depend, the relevant autonomous community, which determines the procedure to be followed in order to bring the facts to the attention of the fiscal or judicial authority. The only thing that drafts this bill is how to coordinate with the State Security Forces and Bodies when they compete with forest agents in the same act and for the same fact, as the minister has said in only 2% of the cases. All of this is aimed at ensuring maximum effectiveness and agility in the prosecution of administrative offences or offences committed against the environment. However, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group we have shown our willingness, in the parliamentary procedure, to clarify the aspects that have been misinterpreted. Count on it, ladies and gentlemen. Third fallacy: Mountain management plans are abolished. False, ladies and gentlemen. Not only are they not removed, but they are still mandatory for public-owned and protective mountains. The socialist reform of 2006, which provided for this legal obligation for all mountains above the minimum extent, proved ineffective, ladies and gentlemen, since only 14% of the Spanish forest area has an instrument of management, which results in the rural environment, that medium to which no one has referred, none of the spokesmen who have intervened, remaining without the contribution that the mountains could make to its development. The rule we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, today seeks to alleviate this inefficiency and to do so gives an impetus to forest management, which means ensuring proper and sustainable management of our mountains and indirectly combating the most significant scourge that affects them, which is forest fires. Thus, the text we are discussing encourages this management, contrary to what has been said here, on the one hand, with different administrative, economic and fiscal incentives; on the other, establishing the possibility for the autonomous communities to adopt technical models to which forest owners can voluntarily adhere, which comply with the requirements of the competent autonomous authorities, thus considering the ordered mountains, with the consequent savings for the owner and with maximum efficiency. The incorporation, ladies and gentlemen, of the so-called mountains of partners within the group of mountains managed by developing an incipient previous legislation will also allow to manage more than one and a half million hectares currently abandoned or used without any control. All this, ladies and gentlemen, will undoubtedly lead to better management of our mountains, sustainable forest management, which I believe is or should be the objective of all the groups present here. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to the views of the various sectors of the Spanish left on the draft law and we have deduced from them that their forest policy is old, anchored in the past, with proposals for ultra-conservationism which, as I have said, ignore not only the forest reality of our country, but also that sustainable forest management must strike a balance between economic, social and environmental factors. This seems like you're ignoring it, ladies and gentlemen. In this bill, as in all the environmental projects that have been discussed, you are limited to repeating prefabricated arguments and to launching sufflamas that use for all environmental regulations indiscriminately. It gives them the same reason for debating a bill on mountains as on national parks as on coasts, their arguments are all the same and their arguments are unique because they have no basis to refute the enormous changes in favour of the environment and economic activity that are taking place in this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, the forestry sector, despite its importance, has been the great forgotten of the socialist government in its years of government. Its relevance to the conservation of biodiversity and essential ecological processes and its significance as a support for economic activity and a source of employment in rural areas, especially in the most disadvantaged, has been forgotten. Too bad we haven't heard about the countryside all afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The sustainable use of our natural resources, more specifically our mountains, through the promotion of sustainable forest management, by putting forward actions in collaboration with the autonomous communities and the owners of the mountains, can be one of the priority areas of action to generate employment in rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u127	Mrs. De Lara, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u128	I'm done, Mr. President. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the objective of the Government and of the People's Parliamentary Group, an objective which, obviously, after hearing their speeches, we know that they do not share. I conclude by announcing that, as you will assume, our vote will be against the amendments tabled and we welcome again the bill, which while protecting our mountains will enhance the economic exploitation of your resources and the creation of wealth and employment in the rural world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Lara. Draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. [[File number 121/00131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u130	Draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. The Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government for the submission of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here this afternoon to present to the House the two bills with which the Government has proposed a comprehensive reform of the current legislation on the protection of children and adolescents, also naturally in response to the amendments to the whole of the Joint Group, the Members of the Republican Left of Catalonia, and the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. It is good that we have this opportunity to exchange views and I hope that after seeing each other's positions we will come up with positions, especially on the issues that we now see differently, although I would also like to point out that we are starting from a very high level of consensus and that this is a law that has been very much worked out. The two groups that have amended all of them expressly recognize that they share many of the changes that are made in the draft laws and, as it could not otherwise be, their overall objective, which is nothing more than to improve the social, economic and legal protection of families and to respond to the current needs of children and adolescents living in our country. That consensus, as I said, has been emerging, has been working on it, because these two bills have been agreed between the various ministries and the autonomous communities. Of course, they have been informed by the Council of State, the Ombudsman and the General Council of the Judiciary and have also been held in collaboration with the main NGOs working with children and adolescents. It is also a modification of the child protection system in which many years have been working and, therefore, it is the result of the work of the ministry that I preside over, of course of the previous minister and also of the last stage of the socialist government. It is a working document and a very elaborate system in which all those who had something important to contribute have participated. This is a major reform affecting twelve very important laws: first, the Organic Law on the Legal Protection of Minors, which has been in force since 1996, but also the Organic Law on the Judiciary, the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, the Civil Prosecution Act, the Law on International Adoption or the Law on the Protection of Large Families. The reform sets up a system for the protection of children and adolescents in line with our current reality and will make Spain the first country to incorporate the best interests of the child in the terms established by the United Nations. In particular, it will strengthen care for children at risk of neglect, assistance with ill-treatment, and foster care and adoption, where procedures to provide a family environment for children have to be expedited. We understand that the effectiveness of the protection system guaranteeing these laws must reach children and adolescents alike from all over Spain, beyond the autonomous community in which they reside, the country in which they were born or the administrative situation in which they are located. The principles of this legislation are very clear: the priority - and this summarises very well what the spirit of the law is - of stable measures vis-à-vis the temporary ones, the relatives vis-à-vis the residential ones and the consensual ones vis-à-vis the imposed ones. The legislation I present fulfils the duty of the public authorities set out in article 39 of the Spanish Constitution, which reflects the obligation to protect the family and, in particular, minors; it must also comply with the principle of equality enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution, without discrimination on the basis of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social circumstance. Therefore, the reform, as set out in the draft laws, aims to continue to ensure uniform protection throughout the territory of the State and to provide a reference for the autonomous communities in the development of their own legislation, while incorporating some of the new developments introduced by the legislative and regulatory activities of the autonomous communities themselves during these years. We do so, as is our obligation, in accordance with the international agreements that we have signed, in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also following proposals from other institutions such as the Ombudsman or the Senate Special Commission for the Study of the Problem of National Adoption and Other Related Issues, recommendations that have not been met so far. These are reasons for bringing this legislation forward, but the data are also very illustrative of the legislative need posed by the Government to the House. Of the 35,000 children under guardianship or custody of public administrations in 2013, 13,500 were waiting for a family. In 2013, 3,400 minors were victims of crimes against sexual freedom. We have recently known through the macro-survey of gender-based violence that 63 per cent of women who have suffered abuse, two thirds, say that their children witnessed, heard or were exposed to some situation of violence, and in many of these cases also the children themselves have suffered it. Therefore, every child, every adolescent in Spain is a sufficient reason for the reform that today brings us to the Congress of Deputies. This reform is based on three fundamental pillars: firstly, to establish a new framework for the rights and duties of minors, as well as greater protection for the particularly vulnerable; secondly, to regulate comprehensively the intervention of public administrations in situations of risk and neglect and to reform the measures of the protection system with special impact on reception and adoption; and thirdly, to prevent and combat violence in children as a cross-cutting axis. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as I said, a new framework for the rights of minors is being established, with the best interests of the child as an interpretative principle, a law and a rule of procedure, as recommended by the United Nations in 2013, making Spain the first country to incorporate it, and with its right also to be heard in those procedures that affect them, which means that in the resolution of judicial proceedings it must be exposed if the child has been heard and what he has stated. Moreover, for the first time in national legislation, in line with other international and autonomous norms, minors are recognized as holders of duties in the family, school and social spheres, for example, to participate in family life, to have a positive attitude towards learning, to respect their teachers or to avoid school harassment. In addition, a new framework is established that affects foreign minors and recognizes them, under the same conditions as Spanish nationals and whatever their administrative situation, the right to education, the right to health care and social services, with particular regard to minors who are unaccompanied or trafficked. Children with disabilities are also guaranteed full accessibility and guarantee of specialized social services. For the first time since a standard, resources and support programmes are provided to facilitate the transition to independent life of young people aged 18 and over. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, minors are placed as genuine citizens with rights and duties, they are involved in the situations they live in and in their procedures and solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, secondly, the reform, as I said to you, constitutes a new system of child protection. Part of the definition of risk situations, for the first time also in a state norm, which comes to unify autonomous legislation and incorporate what we have learned through jurisprudence in recent years. As a result, a risk situation is considered in which, in certain circumstances, family or social deficiencies or conflicts, the personal, family and social development of the child is damaged. The risk will be declared by the corresponding public administration in accordance with both state and autonomous legislation, without it being possible to understand that there are invasions or competitive interferences, and in this case it will be mandatory to draw up a project of socio-family intervention that promotes and facilitates the protection of the child. From there, considering the risk, it is the public entities of the autonomous communities that can declare the helplessness, which will also be defined for the first time and which is determined by abandonment, the risk to life, health or physical integrity, as well as the induction to begging, crime or prostitution, never - I want to emphasize this because it is important - by the economic situation of the family. Once the existence of the helplessness has been declared, the guardianship of the child will be passed on to the corresponding entity, and here there is another important novelty because at that time only the prosecutor's office will be able to challenge it and not the biological parents. For the first time there is also a regulation on the transfer of children in helplessness from one autonomous community to another on a subject on which I believe, from the experience we have also had over the years, that it is necessary to increase coordination and to make the most of the effectiveness of public services. There is another alternative case in which it is the parents themselves who apply for voluntary custody of their minor children. For this reason, the reform establishes a maximum period of two years in order to prevent this custody situation from being chronicled, as has so far been the case in some cases. After these two years, the minor shall return to the family or a stable measure of protection shall be imposed on the family. In any case, the goal will always be the same: to keep the child with his or her family and, if that is not possible or is not convenient to the child's interest, to seek the best possible family. For this purpose, the formulas are family care and residential care and, as I said, because it is an inspiring principle of the law, the reform prioritizes family care over residential care, especially in the case of children under three years of age, where they will be sought to live with a family without going through a centre. It expedites this process by establishing that the prior intervention of the judge is no longer necessary and classifies it into three types according to the type of family and duration: firstly, emergency care, which is intended for children under six years of age, which is not longer than six months and is established until the most stable protection measure is decided; secondly, temporary care, with a maximum duration of two years, for when the minor is expected to be able to return to the family of origin or the minor is in an adoption process; thirdly, permanent care, after two years of the period, when the family reintegration of the minor is not possible. In addition, the reform includes - and this is important - a family-friendly status that includes the list of rights and duties. On the other hand, in the field of residential care, protection centres for children with behavioural problems are also regulated in the reform for the first time. It is in line with the reports published in recent years, including those of the Ombudsman. The rights of these children are clearly established, in what situation they may be derived from a protection centre and in what guarantees the centres have to offer. Each child will therefore have an individual protection plan to be reviewed every three to six months. Finally, the reform protection system incorporates some important developments in speeding up adoption to reach more children and more easily. In the case of national adoption, the criteria of suitability for adoptive families are unified, among which I would like to highlight the impossibility of adopting from those who are deprived of the parental power of a child. Procedures are also simplified, ladies and gentlemen. Custody is regulated for adoption purposes with the aim, as I explained to them earlier, of starting the cohabitation between the child and the appropriate family before the public body proposes the adoption to the judge. It facilitates the process for those who give their child up for adoption after birth. Open adoption is regulated, which allows the child in adoption to maintain some kind of contact with his or her biological family, provided that it is determined by a judge and with the approval of both the adoptee and the family of origin and the adoptive family. And the right to access to the origins of adoptees is strengthened, and public entities must ensure that information on that origin is kept for at least 50 years. In international adoption, the area of competence - I know that this is a question for some honourable Members - is clarified for the procedure of adoptions, so that the decision on a country and the accreditation of the collaborating entities will become the responsibility of the State. This is because it affects foreign policy - as you know, the Constitution in its article 149.1.3.a confers on the State exclusive competence in the field of foreign relations - and, as the draft laws also point out, it is done without prejudice to the necessary intervention of the public entities of the autonomous communities, which of course develop - and the law recognizes it at all times and I highlight it from this rostrum - a fundamental task. In all these cases, the draft laws provide for the participation, at times binding, of the Autonomous Communities, on the one hand, in determining the initiation of the adoption process with each country of origin of the minors - and also in the case of suspension or cessation - and, on the other, in the accreditation of the collaborating entities, where a prior report is required of the public entity in whose territory the body is based and the competent public entity is given its control, inspection and monitoring with regard to the activities to be carried out in the territory of that autonomous community. I believe that this guarantees the essential participation of the Autonomous Communities in this area. I would also like to refer to a mention made by the groups that have tabled an amendment to the whole of the economic impact, which may also be of concern to other groups, of this new system of protection. First of all, I want to remind you that what is important here is the best interests of the child and that, as the new legislation wants, the child with whom he is best is with his family - I think we all agree on that - and when he cannot be with his family the important thing is that he can have a new family. That's what the law wants. But, in addition, family care, which is the one that has been encouraged since the reform, if we talk about money, has an average cost of between 20 and 30 euros per day, while residential care amounts to more than double, 60 or 80 euros. It is more expensive and, of course, much worse for the child's interest. Let us not therefore look at this reform from an economic impact point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, the reform strengthens the instruments of the public authorities in preventing and combating violence in children. For the first time, minors are recognized as victims of gender-based violence by amending the 2004 Act. [[Applauds]] In addition, the obligation of judges to rule on precautionary measures affecting the children of abused women is laid down and it is envisaged that these children will be able to remain with their mothers. The child's helplessness may be determined when there is a situation of ill-treatment, sexual abuse or emotional abuse. It establishes the obligation to bring cases of sexual abuse to the attention of the Public Prosecutor's Office for any citizen who knows it and constitutes an indispensable condition for access to professional activities involving contact with children on a regular basis not having been convicted of crimes against sexual freedom, trafficking or exploitation of minors. We will also take advantage of the procedure to incorporate some of the provisions of the Lanzarote Convention concerning the registration of pederastas. Finally, I would also like to refer to other important developments that present this reform, on the one hand, the obligation that the memories - this is also important - of impact analysis of pre-draft laws and draft regulations include the impact on childhood and adolescence. It is not simply sectoral legislation, but all legislation, legislation emanating from the Government or from this House, has an impact and is therefore intended to be cross-cutting and can be reported on. On the other hand, a shared information system is created between the Autonomous Communities and the General Administration of the State to advance a global understanding of the situation of the protection of children and adolescents, an instrument that we need and that will undoubtedly lead to an improvement in the design and evaluation of public policies affecting them. I believe that this also has to be a constant in every rule that we push, the improvement of information and knowledge, and above all the evaluation of public policies and the laws that we push from this Parliament. Finally, as you know, the Law on the Protection of Large Families is also amended with a very simple aim, which is that large families do not lose the title and status of large family until the last of the children has reached the established age, which is twenty-one years or twenty-six years if they are studying. This is a change that has been very much demanded by associations of large families and which also anticipates the comprehensive plan of support for the family in which the ministry that I am honoured to preside over is working and which I hope that in the coming weeks we will be able to take to the Council of Ministers and present also to your ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing a comprehensive reform that gives an effective response to the social changes that have taken place in Spain in recent years, which complies with both the Spanish Constitution and international standards and, in particular, follows the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is a reform that strengthens the Government's commitment to the family, in particular to children. We are therefore acting and acting decisively so that this legislation in which we have been working for so long can see the light. I will listen with all interest to the groups, both those who have tabled amendments in their entirety and those who have not, and who generally share the forecasts that this amendment proposes. If I want to anticipate my absolute predisposition to dialogue and consensus. Many times when we meet with organizations dedicated to the protection of children, the protection of the rights of minors, children and adolescents in Spain, they always tell us: why don't you promote a pact for children? This is very important legislation. I think we all show them our willingness to do so. I understand that there are some difficulties, but those difficulties are not insurmountable. I also understand that there is a capacity to make proposals and to make improvements in the texts proposed by the Government, which, as I say, have been very much worked out, but, frankly, if in any of the aspects that are important for Spanish life and society we have to agree, it is well worth doing for Spanish children and adolescents. All the previous work has been done to make this happen. I will put on my side everything I have to put on and I expect from you the same disposition. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. Two amendments have been tabled to the full refund. To defend the first of these, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a pleasure to be able to discuss with Minister Alonso, who has such a pleasant and predisposed talent, which does not mean that we do not have to say, Minister, that we live in parallel worlds, at least my world is not yours and I believe that yours is not mine. If we were still settled in federalism or autonomy, even if we were like, for example, my colleagues in the PSC or my colleagues in other political parties in autonomous communities where citizens have assumed in their imagination what real political autonomy means, perhaps we would be very concerned. I, the truth be told, am already in another scenario, in a scenario of democratic rupture, which makes us feel somewhat alien to this bill. This bill is a step back, it is even inconceivable that you, who should have an interest in incorporating those autonomists who still are or those federalists who, at least in Catalonia, which is what I know most, still do not want to defend themselves from this will to build a truly composed state, start moving to another station. In Catalonia we have exclusive competences - I speak of Catalonia because that is what I know best - in the regulation of the regime of public institutions which aim at this same protection, the guardianship of minors who are helpless and at risk, and competences for adoption. Without me being liable to be accused of chauvinist, which I am not, although perhaps someone believes I am, precisely because I abhor chauvinism, I believe that in Catalonia there is a certain pride on the part of the Administration, both when it has been commanded by Convergence i Unió and when it has been commanded by the two tripartite governments, that it has done well in everything that is responsible for adoptions. I even know of the governments of other autonomous communities that moved at the time, those that have ad hoc competences, travelled to Catalonia to know how all this was managed. Moreover, we are the only autonomous community that has an autonomous entity dedicated precisely to adoptions, which is the Institut Català de l 'Acolliment i de l 'Adopció. There is no other institution equal in another autonomous community. How is this uniforming will that enters as if it were a combat car justified in the face of a model that has shown that it was efficient? I know that there have historically been problems with the Spanish administration in everything that is responsible for adoptions, there were even some disagreements related to some African States a few years ago. It is true that there have always been the frictions that generate any management of the administrations, but from the General Administration of the State, from the various governments, it has always been recognized that the Catalan model was a model of success, despite the deficits. But with this law they go beyond that. How could the Catalan Civil Code not be mentioned? One of the reasons why since 1960, since Francoism, steps were taken forward, which in those times were more than modern, rupturistic, in everything that affected adoptions thanks to the existence of the Catalan Civil Code, after all this exercise that has been done as a compendium in Catalonia, turns out that you are obviating everything relating to the Catalan Civil Code. Catalonia has Catalan Civil Code. It is true that there is still a civil code in the Valencian country and in Aragon, but it is not as narrow and the action to compendiate it has progressed as much as in Catalonia and is much more sectoral. Then it is the Catalan Civil Code that must be applied in Catalonia. We already have enough problems with the lack of training of many judges and magistrates so that this law will now arrive, which will mean a duplication of interests and contradictions that are not understood. You have also said that what you are proposing is progress. I am left with the final provision 10, which says in text: The measures included in this rule will not be able to entail an increase in public expenditure, nor in allocations, nor in salaries, nor in other staff costs. In other words, with this tenth final provision, how can the criterion that this law means an advance be maintained? It would seem rather like wet paper, because where will the resources come from? Unless we continue to settle down on this path that is less and less road and more highway, what it does is consolidate a perverse equation: the expenditure that the State does not make that the autonomous communities do. By the way, how are we going to spend more if we do not have political autonomy and are also financially involved? It is a contradiction that will only be able to solve those who still believe in autonomy, or those who still aim at a certain federal state. They have work, because without political autonomy and with the intervention by the State in everything that is responsible for financing, a lot of work will be done by the autonomists to resolve this contradiction. We, as not as intelligent as the autonomists or as willing as the federalists, have chosen to be independent, if they leave us and do not put us in jail before. What you want is to boost the models of child and adolescent protection, which should be a source of pride for all. If you believe in the autonomic model, you should be proud of the work that these autonomous communities have done over so many years and recognize that they are older, that they have done well in Andalusia, that they have done well in the autonomous communities where the right has ruled and that it has done well in Catalonia, whether or not the left is commanded, whether or not the left is governed. Instead of recognizing us as a majority, an unnecessary law is invented that does not mean that it does not contain some elements that we can take advantage of, of course, but does this law that means laminating and not recognizing everything done? Deep down, it means not being proud of even the stadium that has been reached. Moreover, it sounds like a certain alibi to justify this lamination by incorporating some ideas that, of course, are interesting; I do not say that in the law there are no interesting ideas, but let's talk about them, let's narrow them down and then let's see if this kind of law is necessary. For our part, we could only try - although I suppose you do not have too much interest in us - to engage in dialogue on the basis that you recognized a safeguard, with respect to this law, that would make it clear that it does not apply in those autonomous communities where the laws that your respective parliament has legislated make this law unnecessary or, at least, those aspects of the law that they do is to double the functions. We hope that they will pay attention to Convergence and Union, as they do not do so to us; at least pay attention to them, who can still rehearse them, although I believe that, at this stage, they will not rehearse either Convergence and Union or the Democratic Union of Catalonia; see how wrong they are. We don't think it's too smart on your part politically, of course, but, well, with us you don't count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. The other amendment to the full refund is tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió and Mr Campuzano has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we naturally appreciate the Minister's tone in the speech. We see that the authors of the bill, whom we have known for a long time and have recognized their professional value, are accompanying us in the rostrum, but I must start by saying that my parliamentary group and many of the Catalan Members, and certainly Basques and Galicians, that we sit in this Chamber we are tired and bored that in each of the bills we are dealing with in this legislature we have to devote a large part of our political effort not to discussing the issues that we are certainly also interested in, which is how we improve, in this case, our legislation on the protection of children, how we adapt to international conventions, how we respond to new social phenomena, to the changes that have taken place in these matters in our society; instead of devoting our efforts to that discussion, we must inevitably concentrate our energy on defending what is obvious, which is the block of constitutionality, the division of competence that establishes the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. Moreover, in the specific matter that we are discussing today, they are very obvious and very clear and, more importantly, they have been very peaceful over the past 25 or 30 years. They've been extremely peaceful. Moreover - as your collaborators know - a small part of the progress made in this bill is inspired by the progress that has been made in the autonomous legislation and, in particular, by the progress that has been made in the Catalan legislation. These advances in the draft law, some cited by the Minister in his speech, are fully shared by Convergence i Unió, among other things, because they have been previously legislated in Parliament and, therefore, in terms of the philosophy of the draft law, in the substantive part of the draft law, we are not far off, as I believe neither do all the groups. However, it is true, and the Minister has mentioned this - in fact he has read a part of the explanatory statement - that uniform idea which is justified in the explanatory statement expresses an idea of self-government, of the ability of the autonomous parliaments to exercise their powers in the legislative sphere, which implies the possibility of constructing different models, of choosing different solutions to social problems, because no, you express an anti-autonomous, tremendously Jacobin conception and reconfirm in this matter what is being produced in practice, which is a covert constitutional reform. Through such legislation, you are reforming the Constitution and breaking that constitutional pact. On this occasion he has taken the turn, I insist, on a question that has been peaceful, such as legislation on children. Minister, in matters which are so obvious, you cannot be surprised that in Catalonia, at least with the consensus of 80% of the Parliament, not those of us who are for our own State, not 80% of the Parliament, the current model of relations between Catalonia and Spain is unsustainable. There will be those who still bet on this constitutional reform and those who bet on the State itself, but the political expression of the philosophy of this bill expresses the sentimental and political disconnection of a very unique part of Catalan society. This is the substantive political issue of this bill. There are three reasons that clearly justify that Convergence i Unió has tabled this refund amendment, two of them focusing on this uniformizing conception of the bill and one linked to the economic costs of these policies. You yourself cited with some pride that vocation of the bill to standardize child protection legislation. We cannot agree on a matter in which we have exclusive competence in which the legislation of the State uniformizes, there is no provision in the Constitution for such a mandate to the General Courts or the Government; in any case, in these matters, since 1996, the legislation of the State has been of a supplementary nature and, in fact, in the current rule, which has functioned peacefully, the application of the State legislation has been accompanied by that full legislation of an autonomous nature. Even in the explanatory statement there is a point of adanism. In Catalonia there has been legislation on the protection of children since 1991 - since 1991 legislation is under way in Catalonia - and it culminated in 2010, within the framework of the codification of civil law in Catalonia, in a true code on the protection of children, in 2010, very recently; a global code, ambitious, modern, which incorporates, I insist, much of the philosophy of this bill. On the other hand, when one reads the explanatory statement, it seems that the one who has discovered the Mediterranean is the current government. Minister, the first question to be resolved is to clarify, as was the 1996 Act, the supplementary nature of State legislation. We must remember - Mr Tardà has said it and it is very clear - two articles of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. One of them is 166, which establishes exclusive competence in the field of child protection, which is very clear: the regulation of the protection regime and of public institutions for the protection and protection of children at risk, as well as the regulation and management of public and private entities, services and establishments providing services in their territorial area. There is another very relevant competence, which is that contained in 129, which establishes exclusive competence in the field of civil law in its development. I'll say something about that later. We do not have time to make here a reminder of the origins of civil law and the fact that private civil law in Catalonia persisted in 1914, 1939 and 1978, but what is very clear is that Spanish civil law applies extraordinarily to Catalan civil law. In this there is a very broad development of the Constitutional Court, and even in the unfortunate judgment of the Statute of Autonomy of 2006 the thesis is maintained that what the Parliament of Catalonia can do is to modernize those institutions that make up part of that civil law, which is what we have done since 1980 in the Parliament of Catalonia. This allows me, Minister, to address what is most brutal about this bill, which is the liquidation of the possibility that, at least in Catalonia, we can have our own powers in international adoption, which we have exercised so far. Here I would like to remind you - Mr Tardà has mentioned this to you in the past but I want to stop for a moment - that in 1960, in the midst of Francoism, the compilation of civil law in Catalonia regulated the institution of adoption. Logically, with the recovery of Catalonia's capacity for self-government, the Catalan Parliament, developing this figure and adapting to a new reality such as the possibility of adopting a child outside the borders of Spain, regulated international adoption on the basis of the competitive title of civil law. This has never been the subject of political or judicial controversy. In the development of a competition such as that of civil law, the Government of the Generalitat - also the whole of the autonomous governments - has been allowed to determine with which countries the families of Catalonia can initiate the adoption procedure and through which non-profit entities this possibility is exercised. It is the Government of Catalonia that decides with which countries and through which entities. That has worked reasonably, so reasonably that you yourselves in the discussions we have had these years have said that Catalonia has exercised these policies well. Well, in your bill, this package of issues that the autonomous communities have been developing so far goes on to be developed directly by the General Administration of the State through the corresponding ministries and reduces the active role that Catalonia has played in this matter to almost a simple negotiation of the ministry that you run. With regard to international adoption, my parliamentary group is particularly proud that a colleague of ours, Conchita Tarruella, from 1994 to 1998, served as Director-General of Child Welfare and much of the development of the Catalan model that we are defending today was the result of Mrs Tarruella's work. Some of the first countries in which families were able to initiate adoption proceedings were promoted by the Government of the Generalitat in Mrs. Tarruella's time. The only autonomous community that has created an autonomous body dedicated to this issue is the Catalan one through the Institut Català de l'Acolliment, which, moreover, through the Hague Convention, has recognized the role of competent authority and, therefore, of authority capable of carrying out such actions. The same agreement recognizes the role of the General Administration of the State as central authority and to provide information in communications between the Catalan Administration and the Government of the country of office. Moreover, those families that choose to process adoption not through the specialized entity, but directly through them - what is known as the public protocol - the relations are established between the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of that country directly. That worked. It is not that we are claiming it, it is not that we are claiming a new competition; we are claiming that something that has been peaceful and that has functioned reasonably remains in force. My group is shocked, Minister, and we are convinced - I take note of your attitude - that this has a solution, so far. More than 5,000 boys and girls have been adopted since 2007 to date in Catalonia, one third of all adoptions in the Spanish State. Some colleague, some colleague, Mr Guillaumes, is part of that group of adoptive families who have found in that relationship with the Generalitat, also through the specialized agencies, the proximity of the accompaniment that has allowed things to work reasonably. Why should what has so far worked properly be changed? I do not know whether the Minister will answer us from the rostrum, but we would like to know the reason for this change, unless it is the strictly ideological one of: our idea of a model of state is re-centralisation, uniformity and emptied of the competences of the autonomous communities in this matter. The last reason for our amendment is that the tenth final provision incorporates a mandate not to increase expenditure. It seems to us that in childhood policy, Spain spends much less, invests much less than the whole of the European Union and that assertion contained in the draft law is a renunciation of having a policy of caring for children, especially vulnerable children, in line with the States of our environment. Our spending on the family, our spending on children should shame us; therefore, to give up increasing investment in children is to give up investing in the future. This also leads us, Minister, to reject this bill and to hope that this attitude which you have shown during the first part of your speech will move from words to facts and we will be able to find solutions. We will be open to this, but today we will call for the rejection of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor in position-setting, first of all, by the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Campuzano, this is really exhausting from the defence of the constitutional bloc, but I also have to admit that I was grateful, very grateful, to hear the Minister defend this bill. I think it brings me an aroma of municipal politics, freshness and proximity, and I think that varnish would be very necessary in all Members of this House. I'm on it. I'm on it. The amendment to the whole of CiU - first of all, I would like to refer to it - has, as Mr Campuzano has pointed out, an eminently competitive character and seeks that both the organic law and the ordinary law of the system of protection for children and adolescents, Minister, expressly provide in the corresponding final provision that the autonomous communities with exclusive competence in social services and civil law, by virtue of their empowerment, have a supplementary character, as currently provided for in the twenty-first final provision of Organic Law 1/1996. We understand, however, Mr Campuzano, that it is clear that the final twenty-first provision of the organic law has not been amended. What is actually being amended is the final twenty-third provision, which extends that list of ordinary precepts by incorporating those reformed through the ordinary draft law, to which that additionality clause will apply. If not, Minister, I would beg you to correct me. On the other hand, there are two articles in that list, 2 and 25, which go from being ordinary to organic. In our vision, we understand that this has its logic as article 2 develops the concept of the best interests of the child and article 25 because it becomes part of the new chapter IV on specific protection centres for children with behavioural problems. Reasonable. In short, the amendment of the organic law affects precepts that already have an organic nature because they affect the fundamental rights of minors who are not now subject to this final twenty-first provision, since we believe that it applies only to precepts of an ordinary nature relating to social services or to their own civil law and that they have been extended in addition to that final twenty-third provision. This sounds a little messed up, but I think it was necessary to say so. It is also true that the amendment to the whole contains a position contrary to the prohibition of increased expenditure provided for in the final provision 10. And I will tell you that it is an appreciation that we fully share with you. In our case, moreover, Minister, in the case of Euskadi, we believe that an extra-expenditure safeguard clause should be incorporated, precisely so that it is the Basque institutions - which, as you are well aware, have a special internal organisation regime - that determine whether or not such an increase is needed. It is therefore an issue which - I am already making this point - will be the subject of a partial amendment by this group in the appropriate parliamentary procedure. Together with this, this amendment also calls for the decision to authorize such adoptions in the different countries of origin and their subsequent control, as well as the role of accrediting the collaborating entities, to be reserved to the autonomous institutions and not to the General Administration of the State, as provided for in the draft ordinary law. And we are 100 per cent in agreement, because international adoption, as has been pointed out, is addressed in the ordinary law and not in the organic law and substantially amends Law 54/2007 on International Adoption, effectively with the will and intention to strengthen the intervention of the General Administration of the State in such procedures. Generally speaking, it follows the view of the International Treaties and Agreements Act and should therefore be interpreted in accordance with that agreement of the Bilateral Commission on the Foreign Action Act. As you well know, in that we disagree. If the autonomous public entities are reserved the functions of collaboration in the law throughout the procedure; they even participate in the determination of foreign policy aspects in this area, although it is de facto the General Administration of the State that determines the initiation of the adoption process in each country of origin, its cessation or suspension. It could be said that the formal and main decisions are taken by the General Administration of the State, although it is true - I will not deny it - that the text appears from the hand of the autonomous public entities; therefore, they themselves can directly exercise brokering functions in the country of origin. It is also true - this has two sides - that the State reserves important supervisory functions and can also establish master lines in foreign policy. In this sense, as Mr Tardà and Mr Campuzano have also pointed out, we perceive in the general spirit that the norm is being distilled by a uniforming will on the part of the Government and the group that supports it, which we certainly cannot share and that we are already warning you that we are going to fight it, we promise to fight it. And I will tell you why, primarily because they are wrong, because the need for harmonisation, which we fully share - I think we must work together, coordinate and harmonise the rules - must not be confused or confused with one another; harmonisation, yes; therefore, standardization, no. However, they will note that we have not made an amendment to the whole to the extent that we share and really consider necessary a very important part of the regulatory changes that are being proposed, and we must also acknowledge that good work has been done in this case of dialogue, exchange of views, listening work that has been incorporated, and that should be welcomed. In addition, Minister, I sincerely trust your offer and your talent and that hand that you have extended to this House to work collaboratively. We are therefore hopeful that, in the process of partial amendments, we will be able to reach the necessary consensus to remedy some of the competition issues that have been misconstrued in the proposed legal text and some other regulatory aspects in which we can have differences, but, as I say, they are not the most, precisely, they are the least. In conclusion, I would like to say that this group is not going to object in any way to the invocation presented by the amendments of the whole of the Convergence i Unió and Esquerra Republicana Group of Catalonia to respect their exclusive powers in civil law as set out in the Statute of Catalonia, which I think are very relevant. In this matter I envy you, it seems to me a privilege to have a Catalan civil right like that which they have; as you know, Minister, we have our foral right, our foral law Vizcay and Ayala's foral in Álava, but fundamentally it regulates successional matters. As I say to you, I express my envy but also our solidarity. That's why, as I was telling you, we're not going to oppose it. We also share what has been pointed out from the point of view of the expenditure limit, with the quality - in this case yes - of preserving the part of historical law that has this matter, which I remind you, Minister, which is even pre-constitutional in nature. Why don't we? Basically because we understand that they are their legitimate aspirations and also adjusted to the law. Thank you very much and may you spend a good afternoon as much as possible, which will be long.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. Mrs Díez has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u139	Thank you, Mr President, Minister. For someone who might be seeing us from outside in the last few minutes, in the last two speeches - in part, Mrs Sánchez Robles, I completely agree with you - it might seem that we were in a debate between Basques, between Catalans and Basques and Catalans, in a debate between autonomous communities with ideological or political sensitivities. And no, we are in a debate on a matter, in our view, as important as the debate on two laws on the protection of children and adolescents in any part of Spain that children and adolescents live in, including children and adolescents who are welcomed, adopted and come from other countries. We are therefore dealing with a debate which has, of course, its sentimental aspects. Mr. Campuzano said that with decisions of these characteristics it was not possible to connect feelings between Catalonia and Spain, but that the laws are not to connect feelings, not even to protect them. No, laws and democracy are substantial and elementary to protect rights, not to protect feelings, because the feelings are of each of us, they are of each of us. The laws are designed to protect rights, apart from the feelings of those who own those rights because they are citizens. We may not have the same concept, but this is a basic notion of democracy. What are the laws for? To that end, to proclaim and protect the rights we have for being citizens and not for bringing one or other feelings to one or another and even for having some or other ideologies. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Group also said something I share with her. Maybe I was saying it for something else, but I share that initial statement that has made nothing more to go up to the rostrum: since it is not tired of defending the constitutional bloc! Indeed, it is exhausting to defend the constitutional bloc, and when I rise to this rostrum I also intend to defend the constitutional bloc. Perhaps we have discrepancies - I know we have them - about which part of the block of constitutionality or how we interpret each of its contents, but yes, here we are for that, to agree also in that sense. For me to defend the block of constitutionality in this area and always - but particularly in this area - it is to defend the equality of all Spaniards, to defend the State, which means defending equality and, in this case, equality and protection on equal terms for all children and adolescents. Our group has not tabled an amendment in its entirety, it does not call for the return of these bills to the Government because we believe that the objective and even an essential part of the content is a step forward with regard to the current situation. There is progress on many of the issues that have been detailed here, which aim precisely to ensure that these rules guarantee this special protection of minors throughout the State, throughout Spain, and that they respond to current needs, such as speeding up reception and adoption processes and improving care for children at risk and children who are victims of violence. Those objectives of the law are shared by this parliamentary group. In achieving these objectives, there are some issues that appear within the text of the law that we disagree with or that we believe should have gone further. I am not going to dwell on what I share because I have already said this, but I am going to highlight, briefly, some of the things I hope that we can agree with the Government in the subsequent debate. I too have listened to the minister's offer of dialogue; it is not that he believes it to me, it is that I have an obligation to believe it, and if it turns out that the process does not prove, I will shave it to him when we reach the end. There is no evidence of dialogue, which does not mean that we have to agree on one hundred percent, but that we do try to agree on some issues that I believe should at least be improved. I am going to start with what I think is more important and more difficult and it is the reproach I want to make to the Government and the People's Party in this law as in others - we saw another one this afternoon - in which we are told that this law will not at any time count on greater economic availability. All these new rights and assistance enjoyed by minors, according to the pretense and the text of the law, will remain on wet paper, minister, if this final provision as it stands comes into force, which states that this rule cannot entail an increase in public expenditure. It can't be contradictory. As much as it is said that the resources already available can be better managed, if new rights are proclaimed, if they are to be organized in such a way that the proclamation of new rights is effective and on an equal footing throughout Spain, resources, material, human and economic resources are needed. It is that they are needed, and this additional provision that they have also introduced in another law that we have seen throughout this session throws along a very shared goal by this House. I encourage you, Minister. I am also sure that you, as a strong man of the People's Party, and I hope that from the government, will be able to bend the elbow of Mr Montoro - the elbow, arm or whatever it takes - so that there will be resources for this law to have the effects that are being pursued and proclaimed in the text. This is, in our view, the most relevant issue that needs to be changed in the procedure, because if it does not remain in anything, in beautiful words, in a complementary effort for many people working in the sector - all those associations that you have mentioned - but, at the time of truth, in very little. I think that if we make the effort - we must and you have made the decision to do so, you were actually saying that there was work prepared by the previous government, there were steps that had been taken. You have made the decision that these laws should be passed in this legislature, you have spoken to many affected groups; talk to us now. You say that you have agreed among yourselves, in the Government, and I suppose this is one of the things about consensus, that there is no budget allocation. Please, Minister, break this consensus; break the consensus in the government that there is no budget for this law and seek the House's consensus, because it will have the consensus of all of us so that there is budget for it, and I believe that there is also the consensus of your parliamentary group. I have no doubt that your parliamentary group will support you for resources. Another issue - not to mention all - of a less transcendental nature than this but important is that we consider it necessary to improve the articles concerning the family reception of minors and to raise awareness and strengthen this in the face of institutional reception of minors; it seems to us that this area needs to be strengthened. In the adoption and reception processes, we consider it essential that legal aid is always necessary, that legal aid is guaranteed, since these processes affect the fundamental rights of minors and it is necessary to ensure that all these processes are properly conducted; it is not a question of having a lawyer, but of ensuring that legal aid is guaranteed. We also believe that it is possible to improve the text in order to guarantee the rights of minors, especially those with specific disabilities. Finally, a controversial element that is not included in this law is the one that has to do with cases of transsexuality. We will make amendments to this. I know that it is a problem, I know that it is a controversial issue, I know that there is no consensus and that there is no consensus between the groups themselves, but I do not think that we should let go of this opportunity to move forward in the search for consensus, because these have the problems that all minors and those who have their own status and do not stop being minors who must be protected by law, so how much better than a national law so that they do not have autonomous laws that in some cases act in one way or another. I think we have to make that effort because Spain makes sense if it is a nation and a state that guarantees the equality of all and not, as some people think, when it ceases to be that and becomes merely a residual thing. I believe the opposite, and therefore, although I know that this is a controversial issue, I encourage the minister to seek a consensus with all of us here too. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Plural Left Group, I have the floor, Mr Pérez Moya, and I thank him for his willingness to speak so soon in plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, from La Izquierda Plural we understand that a great opportunity is lost to be able to develop a law for the protection of children and adolescents in an integral way, or what we could define, in its maximum splendour, a law on children and adolescents where all legislative bodies can be harmonized, including the Spanish Constitution of 1978, which does not fully recognize - although it does mention it - the participation in Spanish society of children and adolescents in our country in a democratic way and as full citizen actors. Similarly, it is not in its entirety a law on the protection of children and adolescents that recognizes the legislative changes that affect the professional cadres - social workers, judges, prosecutors, various administrative authorities, doctors, teachers, etc. - that are going to work with children and adolescents rather than the rights of children and adolescents themselves, as well as their facilitation for their demand to these professionals and institutions that are going to work with, for and for them. This law provided an opportunity to address the challenges posed to us by the reality of childhood and adolescence and to bring our legislation into line with the international standards of rights and responsibilities of children and adolescents expressed and recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. The misadjustment and inadequacies of our legislation have been identified in the concerns and recommendations repeatedly made to Spain by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which underline the inconsistency of the laws and regulations applied in the autonomous communities with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in important areas such as the protection of children at risk or under family care, or in the treatment accorded to unaccompanied foreign children. This project only partially captures the observations made by the United Nations and, above all, loses the opportunity to conceive of children with their own identity as subjects with recognition of rights and responsibilities, ensuring that children grow up in a safe environment and with the necessary support. The Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizes children as capable persons, with certain rights and duties, with the right to express their views, decide and do, to a greater or lesser extent, in all matters affecting them. The convention does make explicit and clear transit, from considering children as the object of protection to a conception of children as social subjects of rights reflected in three basic principles: provision, protection and participation of children. We lack the coherence of the law in this approach. All of this leads us to state clearly that this law is insufficient. A genuine body of legislation on childhood and adolescence needs to be set up, in line with the Union, and not just make small improvements in legislative regulation. It is very important to address the full spectrum of risk factors that threaten the lives of children, adolescents and their families, emphasizing the dimension of cross-cutting participation in everything that affects them. The law continues to be discriminatory through the language used. The whole text uses the concept of minors, minors or minors from a non-inclusive point of view as full citizens of the law, including chapter III on the duties of minors. Thus, the balance of the law is lost in the protection of children and adolescents, as they are treated from a discouraging perspective as social actors. When we talk about discrimination through the language used, we refer to the lexicon used correctly in the rights approach proclaimed by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. This leads us to ask ourselves again about the protectionist purpose of this law. We note that, at present, the use of the term minor has been relegated to punitive legislation such as penal codes or various international treaties. On the other hand, we must point out that, as a text that attempts to harmonize existing international treaties with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, we are deeply shocked by its insistence throughout the text not to accommodate the correctly used terms when addressing children and adolescents in favour of the term minor, which is no longer used in international legislation. With regard to the use of gender in the body of the law, children and adolescents also appear as an asexual category; there is neither a trace of inclusive language nor mention of the diversity of situations according to gender, nor of other characteristics or personal conditions, which causes an objective and subjective disregard of the assumptions analyzed by the law in view of the future of their application in real life. It is important to note that the law refers to the best interests of the child rather than the best interests of the child. This leads to leaving participation in the processes that really affect children and adolescents on the side of the whole law, especially leaving children and adolescents in our country completely unaware of their rights. They cannot participate strictly in any social and judicial circumstances affecting them in which they are seen as direct and indirect protagonists. See the example of the right to be heard in adoption proceedings, while the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires the right to be heard, as recommended by UN General Comment No. 10 on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The difference is substantial and it is not vague because being heard in the judicial sphere is not the same as being heard. It consecrates a vision of childhood and adolescence as an object to be protected, since it is in the best interest of others to decide. Therefore, they are not considered as social actors or citizens of our society, but they are still subjects or objects to care for and protect, far from facilitating an evolution in an individual society of growth and not of controlled maturation. There are other considerations we would like to take into account. One would be the public entity as the managing body. The emergence of this body in the legislation analysed raises serious doubts about the subrogation of the functions of previous bodies in operation for adoptions, receptions, etc., which could lead to new cases of privatization of the treatment of the law of the person and its serious consequences, which would lead to a commercialization to the detriment of legal certainty in the field of children and adolescents in our country. Are we faced with a new US court figure for the management of these processes with children and adolescents of a private and profit-making nature? How will this new figure and its relationship with the autonomous communities and their legislation be regulated? In relation to the competition issue, the reaction of the law implies a very clear invasion in those communities which have recognized in their statutes of autonomy exclusive competence in the field of the protection of minors, and reference has already been made to this issue by previous speakers. In the case of Catalonia, article 166 of its statute of autonomy spells out the exclusive competence of the Generalitat with regard to the protection of minors, which in any case includes the regulation of the regime for the protection of public institutions for the protection and protection of minors at risk and of juvenile offenders, in the latter case respecting the criminal legislation. In addition, Catalonia has a law on rights and opportunities in children and adolescents, which regulates subjects that fall within its competence. The amendment proposed in Organic Law 1/196 of 15 January, on the legal protection of minors, on the partial amendment of the Civil Code and the Civil Prosecution Act, ignores the reality of autonomous communities with their own civil law such as Catalonia. Catalonia holds exclusive jurisdiction over civil law, in accordance with Article 129 of its statute of autonomy, with the exceptions provided for in Article 149.1.8a of the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, the amended articles of the Civil Code in the present draft law on child protection should be applied as an alternative in those autonomous communities with jurisdiction over civil, foral or special law. Finally - and I conclude - it is clear that this bill entails an increase in expenditure in terms of staffing, salaries and staff costs. This contrasts with the evolution of allocations from the State General Budgets to care for children and families, which have been halved since 2011. These and other considerations and proposals that I cannot develop due to lack of time will be raised in the partial amendments. So far it would be the explanation of the position of the Plural Left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u143	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this whole debate to mark the position of the Socialist Group. The draft law before us is that of the modification of our system of protection for children and adolescents, children and adolescents, which are undoubtedly a priority for my parliamentary group. So priority is this issue that the necessary legal reform that we are dealing with today has been calling for throughout this legislature, because - as the minister has rightly pointed out - work was well advanced at the end of the previous one. To intervene in the first years of people's lives is fundamental to guarantee equality, it is a priority for us as socialists. The struggle for equality is one of our signs of identity; there is nothing more unfair in life than that your equality depends on the place in which you were born or the circumstances in which you were born. To ensure equality, therefore, it is essential to intervene from birth. Inequality in the cradle can condemn inequality throughout life. In our country there are children who today are experiencing a real dramatic situation, emergency, a really painful photograph. You will understand that before addressing the formal aspects of this legislative reform I am referring to the situation of these children and their families in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain 2.8 million children, 33% of the underage population, are at risk of poverty, one in three; dramatic data on child poverty. Our country is the second in the European Union where social policies to combat child poverty are the least effective. The Government had not acted correctly; its social policy, its child policy was wrong, its management had accentuated inequality and poverty. Poor children are the sons and daughters of poor families, but they are more vulnerable, because the longer a child remains in poverty, trapped in the cycle of poverty, the less chance he will be able to escape. Ladies and gentlemen, children in our country are not only victims of the crisis but also victims of social cuts. The austere we have suffered in recent years has accentuated this. Social policy and children's policy cannot be mere statements, they need to be marked in our agendas as a priority, a priority in our management and also, Minister, a priority in the budget. Over the past four years, there has been a decrease of EUR 6,370 million in children; investment per child has fallen by EUR 772 million; EUR 10 billion in health cuts; EUR 6 billion in education cuts; EUR 2,600 in social services or EUR 7,220 million less in employment policies have been decisions that have clearly worsened the lives of families and the lives of their children. This has meant that many families have not had the opportunity to pay their children for textbooks, that they have not been able to cope with school material, or that they have had complications in giving the medication to their children as a result of the co-payment. It has resulted in many young people having had to drop out of school due to lack of scholarships and the rise in university fees. In short, it has resulted in the helplessness of families, without the possibility of resorting to social services also as a result of cuts in the Children's Plan, 52%, or the Concerted Plan, which managed the municipalities by 68%. These are the data, this is the reality. I do not say this, the Council of Europe in its report prepared by the Commissioner for Human Rights in October 2013 was already very critical of these cuts. He said that these austerity measures were having a particularly negative impact on the human rights of children and persons with disabilities, noting that the Spanish authorities should do more to ensure the human rights of the most vulnerable groups. We cannot be complacent with this situation, neither we as parliamentarians nor you as a government responsible for policies that have led to major setbacks in social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the need for this legal amendment. The Socialist Group is ready to work with the Government to advance the realization of the right to the family, and in particular the right to children, the social, economic and legal protection that the public authorities must give it, as enshrined in our Constitution. We believe that at no time can the guard be lowered in the protection of our children. Already the last legislature, as has been recalled, from our government responsibility we work on the need to change the regulatory framework. We brought to this House the preliminary draft law amending the Children's Act of 1996, a reform that had been called for by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, by the committee of study that is being held in the Senate, focused primarily on adoption, by the Ombudsman, by legal operators, especially by the prosecution, by the autonomous communities and by the NGOs that work with children every day. The then Ministry of Health, Social Policy and Equality brought the preliminary draft here, the minister appeared in committee, all the groups were able to agree and reach a great consensus, and that is why I have to denounce, again in this debate, that the Rajoy Government has not fulfilled its commitment to give priority and a preference to the processing of this law and has waited at the end of the legislature to bring it to this House. I am grateful for the Minister's presentation, but I cannot fail to denounce this fact. And to make this clear, I must say, Minister, that during the entire parliamentary term in relation to the urgency we demanded, we have brought initiatives here. We have reproduced that preliminary draft law as a bill that was discussed in this House over two years ago and which its parliamentary group voted against. After that, we have insisted on other initiatives that, again, the People's Parliamentary Group, with its overwhelming absolute majority - i.e. overwhelming above all rights - once again denied. We have coincidences in identifying the objectives of this legislative reform which are the same as that contained in the Socialist preliminary draft. Coincidences in a clarification of the best interests of the child, in ensuring legal protection in any circumstances of risk or distress, in strengthening prevention to prevent situations of distress, improving actions at risk. And coincidences in simplifying and improving the procedures for foster care and adoption, and also in enabling the adoption of those over the age of eighteen to regulate the operation of children's centres with behavioural disorders. That is why this law seems to us to be timely, a law that will improve and amend the Law on the Legal Protection of Minors, the Civil Code, the Law on Civil Prosecutions, the Law on Adoption, including the Law on Gender Violence. As I say, this text is essentially not alien to us, it is not new to us and we share it. But, I insist, we must tackle this necessary reform without wasting time. That is why we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety, although we are going to put forward partial amendments to improve it. I wanted to talk to you about one of them that has already been referred to, but it is important to remember that. I refer to the fourth final provision in the case of the organic bill. It's a spurt. We cannot talk about new resources and new programmes with zero investment, without having a budget forecast or talking about an increase in public expenditure. It's not serious, it's not possible. This issue requires preferential attention on our part, not only because of issues of justice, social cohesion or human rights, but because it is necessary to invest in children in order not to break our intergenerational pact, our social pact and because it is also good to invest in children as a country to gain in competitiveness. A fairer society is a more competitive society. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a great deal of work ahead in which we have our cooperation, but we are not going to stay there. Our obsession at the moment is to bring forward not only this law but to recover all the investment and cuts in rights for children and their families that have been made in this legislature. And in addition to bringing this law forward, we hope to lead in the future, in just a few months, a new social policy, a new child policy that is a real priority where equality is the inspirational axis of our policies. I say that we aspire to lead it because we also aspire to represent a social majority again with a special sensitivity in these types of policies. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mrs Montesinos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, our congratulations and congratulations on this reform initiated by former Minister Mato and which has culminated in an absolutely extraordinary way. At the same time, I would like to greet the Secretary of State, our dear and until recently little companion, Mrs. Camarero, and the Director General of Family and Children's Services, Mrs. Adroher. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find the debate that we attended this afternoon absolutely tremendous. Anyone would say that we were talking about the Catalan debate instead of the draft reform of the child protection system. It has been a debate in which many of the groups who have spoken before me have missed a great opportunity. There has been talk of a democratic break-up. It has been said that there are groups that feel absolutely alien to this project. There has been talk of an unnecessary law, and it has even been said that there is something that could be used. It has been said that it is an absolutely crooked preliminary draft and that the Catalan fact is not recognized in it. Another group has come to say that it is boring to talk about competences; that with this project what we are taking advantage of to reform the Constitution, and they have even come to scandalize what this project collects. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about something very serious. We are talking about childhood, and it seems a lie that a reform that affects twelve laws, which has been agreed - as the minister has said - not only with the autonomous communities but with the social actors and with the prosecution; a reform - and it is most important - that makes Spain the first country in the world to incorporate the defence of the best interests of the child as an interpretative principle, substantive law and procedural rule, as recommended by the United Nations; a reform that states that all draft laws and regulations must assess their impact on childhood and adolescence before they are adopted; a reform that seeks to ensure the special protection of minors throughout the State and respond to their current needs; well, all this has remained in the Catalan debate, sadly. There are other groups that I would like to thank for your words: Mrs Sánchez Robles, who has acknowledged the cooperation and consensus that has been achieved in these two projects, and Mrs Díez, who has said that this reform of children is a great step forward. Of course, I am surprised by the statement made by the representative of the Socialist Party in its first part, because to use half the time to talk about the fact that we are attending Spain at the rawest moment in terms of child poverty... No, I'm sorry; I'm going to restitute it. That was during the years 2007 and 2011, which also coincided, regrettably, with the fact that his Government, the Socialist Party Government, in 2011 cut budgets by 93% only in the family and in children compared to 2008. [[Applauds]] That is social cuts and not what this government has done, which has been betting on childhood and on the family! Let us therefore stop speaking about electoral campaigns and really take advantage of the opportunity offered by these two bills. Having said that, I also thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for announcing collaboration with the Government. Of course, the People's Parliamentary Group thanks him very much because there will be very close collaboration over these days until its final adoption. But do not regret the delay in the introduction of the bill, when for seven years of socialist government in this House we have not discussed how we are doing this afternoon after three years of People's Party government. [[Applauds]] In any case, my thanks for the will you have shown. With regard to the amendments to the whole that had been tabled, it was said that it represented a competitive invasion in those communities that had recognized exclusive competence in the protection of minors in their autonomy statutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the main purpose of the draft law is to ensure, precisely, the social, economic and legal protection of the family, and in particular that of minors, in accordance with international agreements and with the provisions of the Constitution in its article 39, as well as to ensure that the modification of the system of protection for children and adolescents ensures compliance with the principle of equality enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, which allows children to continue to be guaranteed uniform protection throughout the Spanish territory, and that it constitutes a reference for the autonomous communities in the development of existing legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the exclusive competence of the Statutes for the protection of minors has as limits - and we should all know this - the powers which are exclusive to the State, including those relating to civil law. As for the fact that they say that the reality of the communities with regard to their own civil law in Catalonia is ignored in this project, in no case does this group share it, since the recognition of exclusive competence of the autonomous communities in the field of civil law by their statutes does not upset the competence of the State, as provided for in article 149 of the Constitution, and as regards the amendment of the Law on International Adoption and constitutes a flagrant invasion of autonomous competence, nothing further from reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to authorise adoptions in the different countries of origin, as well as the function of accrediting collaborating entities for adoption, is based on Article 149.1.3a of the Spanish Constitution, which confers on the State exclusive competence in the field of international relations, and there is also a ruling of the Constitutional Court, which includes within the competence of foreign relations, to reserve the State the possibility of establishing measures regulating and coordinating the activities with external projection of the autonomous communities, in order to avoid or remedy any damage to the direction and implementation of foreign policy which is exclusively the responsibility of the State authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law establishes channels for the participation of the autonomous communities, not as has been said this afternoon, since, although the State is given the power to authorize adoptions in the different countries of origin, as well as the role of accrediting the collaborating entities for international adoption, in both cases the participation of the autonomous communities is envisaged. In conclusion, the law is respectful of the constitutional and statutory division between the State and the autonomous communities, where the best interests of the child prevail. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the General Council of the State support the regulation provided for in this draft in those matters which have been the subject of the amendments as a whole. As far as economic viability is concerned, the economic impossibility that you argued, well, I would like to point out two things: on the one hand, the new measures envisaged in the draft law will lead to an improvement in the child protection system and, on the other hand, some of the measures envisaged will allow a better use of the budget headings for the care of minors, such as the application in this case of family-friendly measures with regard to residential care, as the Minister has explained. And let us not forget that the governments of the People's Party, the General Administration of the State are always governed by the principles of efficiency and efficiency, both administrative and budgetary, and that is a guarantee of the sustainability of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, going back to what we are dealing with, to the draft law, I would like to highlight - the Minister has already done so - in the short time that I have some relevant points left. First, the rule establishes a new framework for the rights and duties of minors, with special attention in this case to the most vulnerable, such as unaccompanied foreign minors, extolled young people, children with disabilities, etc. The bill promotes the participation of children through the right to be heard and heard. The reform for the first time includes national legislation and a catalogue of duties in the family, school and social spheres. Secondly, the reform constitutes a new system of child protection, and it is important to stress that the draft clearly states that the economic situation of the family is never a reason to declare the situation of helplessness, since one of the objects of the rule is regular in this regard. As for voluntary custody, it is limited to two years in order to prevent these situations from becoming chronic, something that was happening. At the same time, foster care and adoption procedures are speeding up, with the reform giving priority to family solutions compared to residential, state and temporary solutions, and consensual ones compared to those imposed. The aim is for at least all children under three years of age to live with a family without passing through a reception centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister has explained, quite frankly, what are the reception formulas and I am not going to detail any more. What does seem important to me as a novelty is that the reform points out, before the public body proposes to the judge the constitution of the adoption, that a period of cohabitation between the child and the family considered appropriate can begin, so that the children always remain in a family and are thus prevented from passing through a reception centre. Another notable development is open adoption. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important facts for me is that the processes of international adoption will be given greater legal certainty, as the area of competition will be clarified. Finally, the minister said, the fight against violence in children refers in this case to the recognition of minors as victims of gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls can't wait. It is much that this reform, which has been demanded for a long time, is ambitious and we must not delay it. In their amendment they stated that any measure that improves the protection of minors is always welcome. Well, this project is. Withdraw the amendment in its entirety and put the defence of the best interests of the child before its absolutely nightly nationalist postulates. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. - DRAFT CIVIL LAW REFORM LAW. [[File number 121/000133]] - DRAFT ORGANICAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY OF THE JULY OF THE JUDICIAL POWER. [[File number 121/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u147	We will now discuss the two draft laws of the Ministry of Justice, one amending the Civil Prosecution Act and the other amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. The Minister will make the joint presentation of both projects. Then they will be processed one by one and each of the groups will have the relevant shifts and for the time each of them has. I would add, however, that as President, I would like to thank the speakers for any concise efforts they make. I insist, the shifts will be the established ones. [[Mrs Rodríguez García calls for the floor]] Mrs. Rodriguez García.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u148	President, just one question because I do not know whether we have understood correctly. Is there a debate on a first draft law, even though the Minister has dealt with the two drafts in his speech, we finish that debate and start the next one?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u149	That will be the case, and indeed the times in each debate are the established ones. Each of the interveners will have them. But I insist that whoever can make an effort of conciseness I, on behalf of everyone, will thank him.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u150	Mr President, I understand that these are two very important bills and two amendments to the whole which are also very important and which we want to defend with conciseness given all the work that the Socialist Group has done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u151	I have no doubt that none of the speakers will cease to express all their arguments, as is their obligation. Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as my speech has shown, it is in the presentation of the two draft amendments to the Civil Procedure Act and to the Organic Law on the Judiciary that the Government has referred to these Chambers in a context in which there is a certain difference between evolution and revolution, between incorporating successive improvements and constant or sudden and supposedly definitive reversals, which has much to do with the level of prudence and risk that we assume when we carry out these types of projects. If it is true that the reformist strategy compensates for its lack of spectacularity with a constant pace of progress, history also shows that the bet for a whole or nothing is prodigy in failures. This typology helps us understand why these two bills modernise certain aspects of the administration of justice by following the reformist strategy clearly, even though the groups have been able to miss a global transformation that some suddenly yearn for. In other words, while the Government has wanted to change different things that it attaches importance to in itself, some do not identify with the technique and demand a single reform even if we do not know very well what that reform consists of. [[The lady]] The reform of the Civil Prosecution Act, as well as that of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, is part of a strong initiative to modernise Spanish justice, but it does so without the need to alter much of the procedural and organizational structures in which we must continue to be supported. This is therefore a package of measures incorporating a number of objective progress which, as such, must be assessed without an amendment to the whole system, as is done here in some of the proposals presented here on the projects to be discussed. Maintaining the most recognizable features of the model prevents us from making very significant improvements to it, asking legal operators and justice professionals to make a reasonable effort to change and ultimately to evolve and progress. These are the objectives of the reform, although it must be established that many of these objectives citizens have been waiting for time; waiting for us to be able to incorporate the new information society into the administration of justice. That is why the incorporation of new technologies is one of the objectives of the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that by 2020 what is called digital natives in our country will be 65% of the population and by 2025, almost 85%. The contact of citizens and professionals with digital reality has so far been far superior to the technical means at their disposal for the performance of their duties by civil servants and judicial professionals. The other three objectives of the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act are the improvement of the verbal judgment, a greater defence of consumers against unfair clauses and the updating of the statute of limitations for personal actions in the Civil Code. These three are, therefore, the fundamental objectives to which I wish to refer. First, there is the possibility that prosecutors will also be professional collaborators with the justice system. It is well known, because I believe it has been shown by the media, that from 1 January 2016 professionals and judicial bodies will be obliged to use the existing telematic systems in the Administration of Justice for the presentation of writings and documents and for the conduct of procedural communication acts. The law will allow the citizen to be notified with full effect via e-mail or mobile devices if he has chosen to do so. Acts of communication shall be carried out on a compulsory basis through electronic means for legal persons by means of what is called the single electronic address. In addition, SMS-type notices may be sent indicating that there is a notification. The formal requirements for communication acts will also be simplified, and it is no longer necessary for the prosecutor to always be accompanied by two witnesses. We are accused in one of the amendments of not having had sufficient means to make the transmission of the writings by telematics a reality. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, nothing less true since the necessary work is already being carried out, although it should be remembered that this is a shared responsibility for various public administrations and, therefore, we hope that the computer systems - the Lexnet platform, which is already ready for use in the various civil, social and contentious jurisdictional orders - will be an effective reality from January 2016. The only thing that is required for their use by those groups that do not yet employ them is for them to be discharged in the census, for the body representing them to prepare the necessary web service and minimum training. The second objective I mentioned to you is to improve the regulation of the oral trial. The written answer to the request is introduced to give greater certainty to this process, since the plaintiff will go to trial knowing the grounds for opposition of the defendant, so that both parties can be prepared and with the necessary means of proof. The summons of unnecessary witnesses will also be avoided and expert judicial evidence made feasible without the need to suspend the hearing, as is currently the case. This amendment is the result of the experience of fifteen years, since the adoption of the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act and, in this regard, of the demands we have received from various legal operators. Ultimately, it is a matter of strengthening the guarantees deriving from the constitutional right to effective judicial protection, avoiding the defencelessness of the parties and allowing the equality of arms without the need for delays in processing. It is precisely the opposite of what some of the groups have wanted to see when, for example, they have not understood that the failure to hold hearings when the parties so request and the judge considers it appropriate, rather than harming the citizen what it does is to offer him more advantages, such as the reduction of judicial response time or the saving of procedural costs, always maintaining all his rights, because it will only apply if the dispute revolves around purely legal issues or there is no need to make evidence different from the documentary evidence. Thirdly, with the reform now introduced in the monitoring proceedings and in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 14 June 2012, the judge, when referring to contracts concluded between consumers or users, will necessarily assess the existence or otherwise of these unfair clauses and, if there are such clauses, may, if there are, automatically dismiss the claim for payment. In addition, such a clause may not be invoked in any subsequent trial. Thus, far from ambiguities, a clear and precise procedure is envisaged for the judge to verify ex officio the existence or otherwise of such clauses in contracts, in all cases respecting the principle of contradiction, hearing and proximity of the parties, which is absolutely necessary if effective judicial protection is to be ensured. Fourthly and lastly, in accordance with the measures taken by the Government to provide families and individuals with a second opportunity, the Civil Code will be amended to allow personal actions to be prescribed at the age of five against the current fifteen. The interests of the subjects involved in the prescription are balanced. The time limit shall not be interrupted if, within one year from the extrajudicial claim, the debtor had failed to comply and the creditor had failed to claim judicial compliance. This ensures that successive out-of-court claims can delay the statutory limitation period. Contrary to what has been said in some amendments, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that this reform is being carried out on the basis of the work carried out by the General Committee on Codification and therefore with deep reflection. These are, to a large extent, improvements made by a project whose purpose and approach must be sought in its own content, in its own objective contribution and in its reforms rather than in declaratory principles. In any case, through the work of your ladies and gentlemen, the groups and the amendments, we will be able to improve on these concrete, timely measures that speed up and improve our civil justice. As far as the Organic Law of the Judiciary is concerned, you will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the fundamental objectives of any reform in the field of justice must be its acceleration, the improvement of the times of response. There are, therefore, a number of measures in the draft reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary that are clearly oriented in this direction, for example, the more homogeneous distribution of workloads between different courts and tribunals. To this end, the governing bodies may agree on amendments to the rules for the distribution of the courts of the Mercantile, Minors, Prison Surveillance, the Dispute-Administrative or the Social, in order to ensure the balance of the workload between all of them. On the other hand, it will encourage the care of victims of gender-based violence, victims of violence against women, by the specialized bodies we have set up, in such a way that the jurisdiction of the courts of violence can be extended to more than one judicial party, which will serve, in addition to providing better care to the victims, to discharge work to the courts of first instance and instruction or to the courts of instruction that have these powers at this time. The second possibility of improvement in which we propose to work has to do with the specialization of judges and magistrates as well as with the design of the courts. The bill provides for the specialization of one or more judicial bodies, on a temporary and exclusive basis, if determined on the basis of the accumulation of cases, in order to prosecute and resolve certain specific cases and so that they may have a provincial scope. It will facilitate the unification of criteria. It is an improvement that would certainly have been appreciated by those who have had to go to court in matters such as preferential actions, large employment regulation files or unfair clauses. This rule excludes only that matters relating to matters already assigned to bodies of different classes as well as to the courts of instruction can be attributed through this procedure, in order to avoid interference between the jurisdictional systems. Similarly, judges may be seconded to the investigating body for support work in complex cases; they will be useful in matters related, for example, to tax offences, urban issues or trade issues that are undoubtedly of high complexity. In the same vein, it is proposed to encourage the specialization of judges and magistrates. To this end, experience will be evaluated in specific cases and evidence will be convened to confirm their level of specialization, so that they can be recognized as specialists. As far as specialization is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is set out in Article 98. More flexibility and better coverage are now simply introduced, as these mechanisms can already be implemented through distribution systems. Similarly, the exemption of cases was already provided for a particular court for distribution, freeing the most overburdened. Therefore, what we do is to empower already existing instruments. The third improvement introduced by this draft reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary seeks to increase the quality of judicial decisions and to give greater coherence to some fundamental aspects of our justice, to begin with, by reducing the uncertainty that arises as a result of judicial decisions sometimes of different meaning in cases or in similar circumstances. In order to compensate for this, non-jurisdictional plenary sessions are established, aimed at the unification of criteria, in order to avoid conflicting decisions between sections of the same judicial body. On the other hand, the direct civil liability of judges and magistrates is eliminated by assimilating it with that of other public employees and by complying with the recommendations of the Council of Europe in this area. Finally, in a very relevant way, the draft proposes the reform of the administrative and contentious cassation, admitting the appeal for cassation for reasons other than merely economic ones and extending it to matters of relevance to the Supreme Court, so that, regardless of the amount of the case, there is no cause that can be exempted from its control. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, the project aims to promote the professionalisation of the bodies serving the administration of justice. In this singular way it attends to and reinforces the role of the judicial secretaries, now called lawyers of the Administration of Justice, which, although some amendment does not value it this way, corresponds to a historical claim of this collective. This change does not diminish its functions in the direction of the judicial office, which is expressly mentioned, and even less so the principles of neutrality and impartiality which inform all its proceedings, on the contrary, add new powers, such as mediation, processing and, where appropriate, the resolution of monitoring procedures. In addition, a new system of substitutions is being created, in order to meet the high interinity, and the disciplinary regime of the future lawyers of the Administration of Justice is also being improved. Members of the procedural management body are recognized as agents of the authority to document embargoes or launches and the door is opened for psychologists and social workers to be part of the forensic comprehensive assessment units in the institutes of forensic medicine and sciences, with the aim of providing specialized assistance to victims of domestic violence, minors, families and persons with disabilities. With regard to social graduates, they are included as professionals who can act as collaborators of justice in the social sphere. A fifth aspect that I would like to highlight in this reform, which seems very relevant to me, is that of improving the legal and forensic medicine system, establishing, among other measures, that to access the body of forensic doctors will require the specialty in Legal Medicine, via MIR and with a subsequent opposition for its entry. The draft provides for the possibility for forensics to carry out expertise at the request of individuals in procedures that are not necessarily judicial, but this is in line with the Government's decision to establish alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in which forensics can be very useful collaborators. After the decriminalization of the faults, we are working on the regulation of an out-of-court complaint procedure for the claim of compensation for traffic accidents, allowing the person concerned to use, as so far, the reports of forensic doctors. Finally, there are new measures to combat gender-based violence and to do so, the competence of the judge of violence against women is expanded, the forensic comprehensive assessment units are strengthened and specialized training is provided in this area by all legal operators. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the basic lines of the project. Mentioning at least some of the criticisms that have been made, I would like to respond to some aspects. For example, we are being called upon to take advantage of this initiative to decentralize the Government of the Judiciary through the creation of the Justice Councils of the Autonomous Communities. It is true that the eventual regulation of such councils is an option and not an obligation, as the Constitutional Court said, in its judgement 31/2010 of 28 June. We are reminded that the judiciary cannot have any more governing body than the General Council of the Judiciary, whose status and functions are expressly reserved for the organic legislator. Furthermore, we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not facing a demand from all citizens. The Justice Councils, ultimately, cannot be governing bodies of the judiciary and therefore cannot have jurisdiction over appointments, promotions, inspection or disciplinary regimes. With regard to the transfer of powers to the autonomous communities so that they can assume the management of the bodies of judicial secretaries or other personnel in the service of the Administration of Justice, I must recall that they are bodies of national scope, which guarantees them greater homogeneity in judicial proceedings, which in turn results in greater efficiency of justice and a better safeguard of the right to equality of all Spaniards, and there is abundant jurisprudence on this matter. This does not rule out that we can work with the autonomous communities that have assumed the competences in personal and material means, to expand their competences and to reorder in the future the Staff Regulations of the officials of the Administration of Justice. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I do so by insisting on the enormous possibilities that always involve a gradual, progressive and constant strategy. This is the case of a reform that, like this one, deepens some of the potentialities so far little exploited by the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which learns from the experience derived from its application and renews it, providing it with very valuable means to instill solidity, certainty and agility in our judicial organization. None of this means granting that the measures envisaged in these two bills are, as some have described it, a mere conglomerate. Far from that, they set a number of priorities for achieving justice close to the citizens, sensitive to their needs and typical of the twenty-first century. The speeding up and specialization of judicial responses, the improvement in the quality of resolutions, the professionalization of professional bodies, the fight against gender-based violence, among many other measures, are included in the projects I have just presented. I invite your ladies and gentlemen to reconsider whether these are not objectives on which we can all find ourselves. I personally believe that this can be done, and I am sure that with the work of the Committee on Justice we will be able to achieve these shared objectives among all. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u153	Thank you, Minister of Justice. We will begin the debate on the bill to reform the Criminal Prosecution Act and we will do so with the amendments. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, at this point in the legislature your euphemistic liberal terminology does not deceive us. When you talk about modernization we hear - we are so - privatization, because the truth is that you are moving towards a justice - if in a few months we can still call it that - for whoever can pay it. At the moment, we are in a first phase, in a phase that we could call mixed, a justice for the rich and a justice for the poor. In the background, what is being enshrined here is a two-speed justice and this, as it is so - and we are going to prove it, in fact it is being demonstrated -, means in the end that there is a double justice, one for rich people - people who can - and another for those who have no chance. His speech is part of a general corpus that we could call neoliberal and what they do with this project is to deepen in this process of dismantling not only the rule of law but, therefore, the system of administration of justice. With regard to judicial fees, which were enshrined in a system that was only accessible to those who could afford it, the new legal aid was added, which was unfair, because it covered with public resources persons who could afford it, in a context of economic restrictions, while, yes, access to justice was restricted to other groups. Remember the debate we had about the barons and thresholds for access to free justice. Then came the Civil Registry, its reform, which entrusts it to the registrars of the property and merchants; then the new judicial plant, which, in our opinion - it has already been discussed - will further away from the system to many users. Today we go up to this rostrum to amend this other bill to reform the Civil Prosecution Act. From our point of view, this reform is coined from a mercantilist and privatizing vision, which enshrines the dual model to which I have previously referred, which, in short, will turn the same system into a more just system for some than for others. How can we accept, for example, what you propose with regard to prosecutors? If these are liberal professionals, i.e. representatives of the party to the judicial process - then they are not public officials - how can it be explained that aspects of the civil procedure are privatized to the extreme, for example, of providing for the possibility that certain embargo orders, among others, can be processed? In our view, these are actions that affect the essential core of judicial activity that are left to a liberal professional, an issue that has been questioned by the Council of State itself. In short, what you do is give prosecutors tasks of judicial execution, which will generate conflict of interest with your private functions as representatives of the party. To all this you call modernizing; for what you say, you say modernizing and we decode this word with other parameters very different from those you use, because modernizing is not only the culmination of the arduous process of introducing telematics into the system; that is a very important aspect of modernization, but we are talking about an instrumental concept. I am not talking to you about anything instrumental - which is, by the way, very important - I am talking to you about modernization understood as that ability to socialize the system and to do so, of course, much more just, much more accessible and, of course, much more diligent, functional, etc. As we have the experience of the last General Budgets of the State, which have cut the resources for their ministry and for the functioning of the judicial system - I think this also has a lot to do with modernization - and as we are convinced that the two-speed justice, mercantilized and privatized, can be anything but justice, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety, waiting, stupid on our part, for you to change your road map. We know perfectly well that you guys work like a Swiss watch. When I hear some people say that people in the People's Party don't know what they're doing or what they're doing very badly, I think: How wrong are you? They work like a Swiss watch, they know very well what they have to do and they know they have to do it taking advantage of this absolute majority. Moreover, they are terribly effective: they know perfectly well what they have to do and do so. In a few months we will be able to say that you have won and that you have turned this judicial system into a system that does not look like that to which an advanced society should aspire. We therefore call on those groups that have not completely amended this amendment to the Civil Prosecution Act to vote in favour of this amendment tabled by the Republicans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. We moved on to the Plural Left Group. Mr. Callers, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are again witnessing the presentation of two government legislative initiatives in judicial matters. As usual, they are Government monologue initiatives, although they are always open to dialogue. So far, neither with Minister Gallardón nor with the current Minister have we had the opportunity of dialogue, much less negotiation and agreement, nor do I tell them. These two initiatives summarise at the same time the content and form of the Government's justice policy. In the way I said something, but I would like to represent it with a vignette of Mafalda, of Quino, which said: They are not reforms, they are revoking the facade. For in this case, that is the government's justice policy: it revokes the facade. In his presentation, the minister has come to challenge those that we criticize these two legislative initiatives, because it is only to revoke the facade, and that we demand however profound transformations both in the Organic Law of Civil Prosecution and in the Organic Law of the Judiciary. We could call the two of them law, because we have already dealt with them in this House in other legislative initiatives and in them we see that there are subjects that have been crossed in various legislative initiatives. Mr Tardà has remembered some; I will remind him not only of the Law on Fees, but also of the Law on budgetary efficiency in the field of justice - remember? - which already spoke of the famous substitutions in justice - which are nothing but an ERE hidden in the judiciary and in the justice system in our country - and the laws that refer to the Civil Registry. On this subject, I cannot resist to tell the Minister how seriously concerned I am about this issue. I am also concerned that in these very days and in these very hours the statements of the Minister on a public civil registry, free and of quality, have fallen by land, especially since we have known that the ministry has become the lobby of the registrars of the property and the commercial registrars, who are negotiating a window by province, ladies and gentlemen - I say clearly, a window by province -, with which we can find that where we had 8,000 windows, in the telematics era we will have 50 windows. It is the law of the funnel, the broad for the registrars and the narrow for the citizens. But it is even worse, ladies and gentlemen, because after having said in this House that the registration of nationality was not going to be a paid registration, but was going to be free, we met with a management commission from your ministry to pay the registration of nationality with 4 million euros. I affirm, Your Honor, that the tariffs that you are negotiating with the trade registrars are intended to pay the Civil Registry order. Therefore, no public, no free and many doubts about their quality. I have to say that I do not trust at all the quality of the computer system, that it will have to process with many difficulties - at the same time; I am sure that even in July they will be able to get it started and we will probably have a new postponement - the thousands of cases and registrations of our Civil Registry and will not be able to register them. Minister, it is a scandal, a scandal that does not affect Mr Gallardón, which affects you today, directly to you, because it has turned your ministry into a ministry not of the public good, not of the public interest, but of the lobbies. Speaking of lobbies - which is one of the issues I want to comment on in relation to legislative initiatives - at one point it touched the registrars, then it touched the notaries and now it is up to the prosecutors, for the sake of public-private collaboration, which is a term that always makes me nervous in health, because it usually involves a subordination of the public to the private. One thing is that you have public functions and private functions, and another thing is that you give them certification competence, because that's what a public authority does, it's not what a liberal professional does, no matter how much you want that liberal professional to free you from some public competence. Therefore, a first obsession of the Government is the commercialization of justice, turning the public service of justice into a market in which there will be those who have, as in the fees, purchasing power to buy it and those who do not have it and are subject to not buying it or only to the so-called charitable policy. That is the Government's first concern in these legislative initiatives. The Government's second major concern has always been power, that is, how to condition the judiciary, how to interfere in the judiciary for various reasons: because all power has expansive tendencies, especially in the hands of the People's Party, and because it touches delicate matters that should be controlled at certain times. Here again we find a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. We already believed that we had reached the peak of presidentialism in the General Council of the Judiciary, but the president of the Council does not have enough, is insatiable. The President of the Council considers that he does not have sufficient powers and that he does not control the Council sufficiently. I would also say that he does not have sufficient powers or control over what he wants from the Supreme Court. Here we are being proposed a series of measures that increase competences and turn collegiate bodies into mere partners; that is the question. Members of the General Council of the Judiciary who are not permanent and who have so far been in the economic commission or in the commission on women's rights or gender equality are going to be left with a bunch of nostrils, because the permanent appropriation of those powers that have so far been delegated is appropriate. At the height of misogyny, the chairmanship of the committee on gender equality is modified so that a man can have it, of course. As I said before, one of the obsessions that almost sometimes becomes a pathological problem is the control of the judiciary and the control of power. There is in this reform what we could call in rural terms a pitas pitas, that is, everything. If you have any concerns about a field of justice you can find what you want; you will find it, no doubt. I want to focus on some specific issue such as military jurisdiction. The measure is a step forward, but, like the measure they had proposed a long time ago, it went back to Primo de Rivera, the measure they proposed in the area of military jurisdiction goes back to before Azaña in relation to military jurisdiction. Why? Because you end up with the terna - welcome if you end with the terna - but you do not end the influence of the army on the appointment of military judges. Nor do they address a fundamental problem: the existence of a military sphere in the Supreme Court. They don't make any sense both. They are an inheritance of the past, and not precisely of the democratic past, both the appointment of judges by the hierarchy and the existence of a military chamber, which we have already seen the democratic sensibility it has in some of its recent judgments, for example, on historical memory or on gender equality. That is one of the issues that appears in the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. There are other initiatives that we could call paradoxical or propaganda. Minister, I was telling you before that I was not going to be able to launch the privatization of the civil registers on the date you intend. I also say that you make a toast to the sun with telematics processing in the field of justice; there are no conditions. Have you spoken to the autonomous communities that have transferred this competition? He will have spoken to some; others have no material conditions for this, and they have not yet carried out the necessary training policies of their workers, of their officials, in order to implement it. Therefore, to date that telematization of justice seems to be more of a toast to the sun than a real possibility. We're going on with the propaganda. You change the names of the judicial secretaries, but you make no progress on the content of those judicial secretaries or lawyers in the field of justice. We could even say that they pose contradictory measures with regard to the new functions of the judicial secretaries. For example, when you claim to have written documents, when you also claim that what is now done through recordings again needs the presence of the judicial secretaries, making you - as we said on another occasion - notifiers and little more. These are, to a large extent, the criticisms of my group, both of the organic law reforming the Organic Law of the Judiciary and of the Civil Procedure Act, the broom laws, laws to revoke and remove in some way a judicial system that has many fundamental problems; laws not to address the main problems: where is the judicial office, where are the means and resources of justice in our country, where is also the independence of justice, all of them fundamental measures to make it work right now and to end the social alarm of citizens, not in relation to the minor crime, which seems to be the concern of them, neither with regard to the permanent prison reviewable, which is not a priority citizen concern, but with regard to the crime of white collar and the crime of corruption. In this regard, the Ministry of Justice is not expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u157	Thank you, Mr. Llamazares. For the Socialist Group, Mr Such.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you bring us to the House a timely amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, one more of so many amendments that you have brought to us, and those that remain to be discussed, because we have a prolific activity on these dates. They all have a common denominator: the government's unwillingness to really invest in justice as a public service. Its strategy is not new, it is the one normally practiced by the right-wing governments, which does not believe that justice should be an instrument that citizens can use, regardless of their economic possibilities. The account of the totality of reforms they propose is always the same, is the recognition of their failure. That is to say, we have justice as a public service, we cannot allocate sufficient resources to improve the public service of justice, so what we have to do is to prevent citizens from coming to justice, privatizing some of the justice and removing certain aspects from the public service so that the workloads in the justice system can be eased. This, Minister, is the real recognition of a failure, and it is that you, when elections take place, have been instructed by the citizens to ensure the public service of justice, which is what most citizens need. And you don't. Almost all the amendments to the laws that they bring here are in the opposite direction: preventing citizens from coming to justice to meet their economic needs and social demands. This modification is the same, it's a patch. They bring us one more patch to modify certain very specific aspects of a law that is centennial and that would be worth analysing in its entirety or in a broader way to see if we can address a real justice reform and, above all, in the civil process, so that we reduce the costs to citizens and we can be more effective, more agile and citizens feel better represented. No, you bring this reform which is a patch, it is a retal. Funny thing is, to bring a patch, we need to know what's stuck so we can plug it in. And you say: there are three or four points that legal operators are asking us to change. We have held meetings with legal operators, lawyers and all over the world, and from what you contribute in amending the Civil Prosecution Act there is nothing urgent that implies a need for, through a patch, the Civil Prosecution Act to be amended. Moreover, it goes contrary to reason. You are aware that not long ago there was talk about the functions of prosecutors as far as the procedure is concerned. Of course, prosecutors are seen by citizens not as those who represent them, but as those who participate in the procedure, cost them money and do not provide legal solutions to the process. He is the legal representative of the citizen before the procedure. All right. The normal trend would be to eliminate the competencies and functions and to convert the body of prosecutors into another fundamental aspect - they were already predicting this situation - as it is to be able to open offices of lawyers. This provision has already been made, Minister, and you are now disembarking in this amendment in which you turn to the sock and say that the prosecutors are now going to have greater functions, you are going to be collaborators of the Administration of Justice and you are going to have functions of notification, legal aid and certification. They're going the other way. You know that the European Union is insisting, through the various bus laws, on the need to limit bureaucracy and reduce costs in procedures. And what you're doing here today, all you're going to do is cost the procedure, it's going to cost it more, and it's going to cost it in an important way. It is true - and other comrades have said - that here there is a double speed mounted. Anyone who has the resources to be able to pay the prosecutor to be his or her trusted attorney when making debt notifications or whatever, will be much more agile in his or her participation in the judicial process. However, those who do not have the resources will have to go to the judicial office and will have to enable the normal mechanisms that the Administration of Justice carries out in this case. There is a problem that has been communicated to us by legal operators, in this case lawyers and other associations. On the issue of prosecutors, the concern is that by being a party to the proceedings, it can really harm effective judicial guardianship because it is going to carry out acts with the defendant or the opposite party; they are going to be acts that will hardly be able to be controlled by the judicial secretary, because they can be massive acts of communication or judicial assistance or certification. We can think that a company that has its office of procurators to tutiplen, to full dedication, will be able to speed up its procedures in an important way, and this will really harm effective judicial guardianship because they are party and affect the rights of the other party, of the defendant in this case. This will be difficult to take up in the concept of effective judicial guardianship and, above all, the improvement of justice in general. This is a very complicated issue that many groups have raised with us. Minister, on the subject of the oral trial, Law 1/2007, on Civil Prosecution, establishes in its preamble that an oral trial is necessary, rapid, agile, in which it has seen, in which the parties see their faces and can contradict themselves in their positions, and establishes such a procedural act as the hearing of the oral trial and exalts it, and we understand that orality, agility, speed in the discussion of the claims of the parties is fundamental. However, they bring us here a return to the past, which means that the oral trial is going to have a written answer from the defendant, apologizing, moreover, for the need for the actor to know the evidence provided by the defendant, as you said in your intervention. Well, the concept of orality, immediacy, speed, procedural agility through verbal judgment will carry it with all the consequences. The explanatory statement said so. The law designed the declaratory processes so that immediacy, publicity and orality would be effective, and this was reflected in the verbal judgments because of the importance of the hearing, as well as in the ordinary, Minister, by the prior hearing and by the trial itself, and in both cases with the presence of the judge. The change in your verbal judgment is a very important step backwards. They also modify the limitation of personal actions, which goes from fifteen to five years, with the obligation that the party acting, in this case the creditor, have to file the claim in one year and, therefore, as much as it would be six years, because it would paralyze the limitation. Moreover, they do so - you have said - to promote the development of the Second Opportunity Law. There are many collectives - get on the Internet and access the legal pages - who have worked a lot on this subject, and the truth is that they are shouting the sky, especially because also the late professionals will benefit from the modification of the prescription of the personal actions that you are putting forward. Let us rethink this amendment that you propose, to see if it can be improved in the discussion of the law. Another element they raise is the procedural succession in execution, a succession that occurs without being able to express an opinion on the part of the affected person. This project clearly seeks to promote the presence of certain funds, vulture funds, and the procedural succession of entities that only seek to obtain small profits. Your proposal for reform clearly favours you, Minister. I would also like to add a few words about how you adapt European legislation. The adaptation to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in June 2012 is two years late, in a limited way and with a complex and faracious procedure, which almost turns into a declaratory judgment and which does not properly comply with the judgment. I would also like to inform you that, in the course of partial amendments, we will present you with a proposal to improve the procedure and to extend it to mortgage and monetary executions. On the subject of the compulsory use of telematic communications, of 1 January 2016, Minister, we must hurry; we must hurry to put order in this situation, because - I doubt it just as before my colleagues - on 1 January 2016 it will be practically impossible for the use of telematic means to be in place, in operation the obligatory use of telematic means when making communications, the transfer of writings and documents, especially because autonomous powers are also being invaded and will have to be brought into line with all the public administrations affected by this matter. We reiterate our group's willingness to discuss everything, to bring modern, viable, transformative proposals, as well as our deep rejection of the fact that our legal system is subject to unrelated changes, to permanent and contradictory patches in the various laws that you have presented to us recently. Finally, we propose the return of this project to the Government, because the reform it contains is unnecessary insofar as it does not serve what should be its objectives, which are: to improve public service and the response to citizenship by keeping it in exclusively public hands. This reform does not respond to an urgent demand from society, Minister, but to the government's need to facilitate the privatization of basic aspects of civil procedure, which, as I said earlier, entails a slower, more unjust and less subject to the principles of the constitutions governing civil procedure. We therefore call for the House to vote in favour of the full amendment of the Government's bill in the defence of the public service. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u159	Thank you, Mr. Such. We're moving on to position setting. First of all, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Given the time and that many of us will have commitments tomorrow in other places, considering that at this time the media attention is not going to be very great - Minister, so we must not do things - and given that the march that the government unfortunately takes us to is this, I will be very concise. From the draft reform of the Civil Prosecution Act, I will tell you that we do not have a great deal of glue, but it must be ensured that the autonomous powers that exist in the field of material, personal and so on with regard to the implementation of new technologies in the administration of justice are preserved, so I think that should be corrected in the course of amendments. As for the other law, I will also be very brief. Firstly, our opposition to it is for competitive reasons. Unfortunately, already in principle, in the Constitution the judiciary takes a form that is not, in our opinion, in accordance with the political-administrative structure of the State. Even so, there is a chance that the judicial reality can be better adapted to the institutional reality. This law makes no mention of autonomous councils. You said: this is an option, as the Constitutional Court said. Of course, you are now making a political choice but a political option that, in fact, the legislator has already made before. Because if not, what the hell do the councils approved in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, for example, or in the Valencian Country mean? They're there, they exist. Can this law look elsewhere, act as if they do not exist and not make a division of competences? Do not tell me that it is an option, the option already made by this legislator and the option you are making now is to obviate the positive legal order, which is part of the constitutional bloc, to deny it and to make a uniformist, not even unitary, view of the judiciary. With regard to ordinary cassation, a gesture could have been made that the higher courts of justice of the autonomous communities would face the cassation and, in any case, the unification of doctrine would remain for the Supreme. Nor have similar bets been made. It is not taken into account that there are some places where private civil or foreign law are important and their knowledge must be important in order to exercise jurisdiction. What's going on? We find that once again knowledge of that own civil right is not considered a requirement, but may be a merit or an added one but never a requirement. This is a conception that Aragonese or Catalan civil law, for example - not to mention my own - has a kind of level lower than that of the Civil Code; that must be known. Autonomous powers in the field of judicial statistics are not recognized. In the area of personnel in the service of justice, there are also provisions in the statutes of autonomy and it is not done in a coherent manner in the content of this bill. As far as competition is concerned - another matter that we have always opposed - I will be brief. On the subject of military jurisdiction, we have not considered this jurisdiction appropriate, we have always advocated its abolition, particularly in the area of the last instance of proceedings, which should be undertaken through the abolition of the Military Chamber of the Supreme Court. In the area of the specialization of the courts of violence against women, there is no real specialization of the courts of violence against women, nor of the subject matter that these judges can address, nor of the multidisciplinary preparation of the legal, social, historical and anthropological aspects that constitute this criminal phenomenon, which is increasing. Nor do we agree with that double commitment already made by the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. Now the change that is being made is irrelevant - the increase in the number of members of the Standing Committee from five to seven - but, moreover, as one of the speakers has already pointed out, it turns out that those delegated powers that were up to now in the hands of or could be decided upon or dealt with by those members that were not part of the permanent committee, will now be absorbed by that group, thus further concentrating the ability to influence decisions. There are other aspects such as, for example, the demarcations, which we believe could have been regulated differently, so we certainly believe that for this trip there was no need for saddlebags and there was no need to amend this law. Therefore, we will oppose her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u161	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u162	Thank you, President. I will make a single intervention and refer very briefly to the Civil Prosecution Act, to which my parliamentary group has not tabled an amendment in its entirety. [[The Lord]] Despite the distracted and incoherent way in which the Government legislates, my group continues to hold a certain hope that in the course of amendments we will be able to fix something that we consider to be capable of improving in this law. In particular, we are quite in agreement with some of the issues that the Socialist Group has tabled in its amendment to the whole, although we do not share some of the aspects of the other amendments to the whole presented, so we cannot support the return. We are substantially in agreement and we thought that we could arrange this in the form of amendments. This seems more than trust, faith, which, said by an agnostic like me, is even more complicated because if something has proved this minister is that it is extremely difficult to make any kind of negotiation or agreement with him. Let's see what happens in the process because sometimes miracles happen, even secular miracles. I will refer in a slightly more extensive way to the amendment to the entire Organic Law of the Judiciary. The text sent to us by the Government raises some interesting reforms on certain organizational issues of the judiciary, which are an improvement on the current situation, but we must stress that they do not touch anything delicate, even against some issues that the Government itself had announced. For example, they have not introduced anything with regard to the disposal of the judicial plant even though they initially proposed its introduction. They have therefore not introduced anything that might seem delicate and have left aside some aspects, to which I shall now refer, which are substantial for our group. Since the Progressive Union and Democracy, we believe that if we are to make a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, a reform of a certain degree and not a thing of these merely cosmetics or by fixing some minor thing, if we want to make a reform, as I say, of a certain degree, we should have introduced at least three fundamental questions from the perspective of what we believe must be a modern justice in a democratic country, in a decent country and in a country in which the laws are complied with, in which there is transparency, in which justice is independent, acts in time and form, not when the political timetable of the Government must act, but when justice has to act. That requires, and is fundamental to our view, independent justice. Therefore, the reform of this law should have been introduced at least three issues, at least three reforms, on the one hand, personal and material means for the Administration of Justice. From the prosecution, from the judges themselves, finally, in the fiscal memory, what we are constantly told from all areas of justice is that without material and human means it is impossible, for example, to fight corruption in time, for example. That is one of the most pressing issues - if I may say so - in recent times. That is one of the criticisms, that is one of the petitions, particularly of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. We make a law, you bring us a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and this aspect which is substantial and which is transversal and does not touch it. It is a matter that seems to me at this moment to be fundamental - and not because with lights and tachographs it is happening at the moment when I am talking about a home register that we will probably talk about a lot in the next few days -; at this time, at this time and today, even if that register was not being produced, that justice has no more material and human means to work for all Spaniards is something that cannot be understood. Another issue that is also necessary in our view to be introduced - it would have been and will be and will be attempted in the process of amendments - has to do with the system of appointments of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. The minister and I have talked about this I no longer remember how many times, and what he is a new minister, I mean he has been in the House for a short time. You know that we have a substantial, substantive difference in this, that our parliamentary group is of the opinion that you were in the government programme with which you came to the elections, that as long as the General Council of the Judiciary is elected by the various political groups - now I get three, then you get two, this for yourself and this for me - there will be no independent justice, there will be no independent justice bodies. This is one of the substantial issues. As much as you have changed your mind and also found the consensus of the whole House, except that of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, this is one of the blemishes of our democracy as long as this is not reformed, as long as there is no body, the General Council of the Judiciary, which is otherwise elected. It is not just our parliamentary group that says so, you know it well, Minister. He's going to tell me - he's not going to tell me because he's not going to answer me, but he told me other times - that it's constitutional. It is constitutional according to how the election is made, as the ruling of the Constitutional Court very well said. The Constitutional Court determined that if it was done by division, it was not constitutional, the doctrine of the Constitution was violated and, above all, the doctrine of the constituent was violated, which the constituent wanted to do. They haven't introduced it either. It seems to us that it is a mistake not to have introduced it into this reform, a political error. It's not that they've forgotten, it's that they don't want to change about it. Finally, and very closely related to this, I believe that it would also be time to review the privileges of politicians and to review the stalemate. I know that you do not share the idea that it is a privilege for those of us who are caught up. I know that they do not share that this is one of the things that needs to be changed, as well as that they do not share that it is a privilege, but the fact is that it is so in relation to the above - in the end politicians end up being judged by the judges they have directly or indirectly contributed to naming - that to propose a reform to an Organic Law of the Judiciary without introducing these three questions is like making a toast to the sun, it is a waste of time, it is a mere make-up and I believe, Minister, that neither justice nor democracy in Spain are for make-up. They are for in-depth and in-depth reforms. They're so we don't cheat and we don't cheat on anyone. That is why we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, and that is why we will ask for it to be returned to the Government. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Jané has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u164	Mr President, Minister of Justice, in a single intervention I will position myself on the draft law on the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act and I will also defend the amendment that Convergence i Unió has tabled to request the return of the draft law on the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. First, on the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act, we welcome the fact that this bill seeks a shared goal: modernizing and expediting the administration of justice. We therefore share the objective, we have not tabled an amendment to the whole, we will vote against the amendments to the whole presented and we will be involved, Minister, Mr Molinero, in the People's Group, we will be positively involved in agreeing partial amendments to a draft which we consider very important. Therefore, I am already forwarding to you the great bet that the Generalitat of Catalonia, which has competence in the administration of the Administration of Justice, the great bet that we are making from Catalonia, pioneers in the implementation of something that does have to be modern, which is the electronic judicial file. We will therefore ask for amendments to avoid, as far as possible, the presentation of paper-based documents during the course of the proceedings, because we really want to get to that electronic judicial record. We will ask with partial amendments to complete the definition of this electronic judicial record, given that audiovisual recordings and other procedures that may be contained in different information storage media are also part of it. Therefore, we go in that line of modernization. We will, of course, ask that, once this whole new system of the Civil Procedure Act is approved by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Autonomous Communities be allowed to regulate the aspects directly related to the competence of justice in order to determine whether or not the use of electronic means in notifications, citations, sites, requirements, depending on the degree of implementation of information and communication technologies in the respective territorial sphere will be mandatory. If they're more implanted, we'll ask for it to be mandatory. It is therefore a matter of making decisive progress in what must be an administration of justice that citizens perceive to have been absolutely delayed in this effort of modernization, of digitisation of the electronic file. I believe that the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, its Councillor, the Honourable Germà Gordó, its entire team, the previous Councillors, have all set a good example of decisively pushing forward this new e-Government in the area of a judicial power that we want more agile and more effective. Therefore, not the amendment to the entire Civil Prosecution Act, but positive involvement by Convergence i Unió. I want to make a reply to some aspect that other spokespersons have cited as criticism of the role of prosecutors. Convergència i Unió will defend this function from the prosecutors and will remind the Socialist Group, for example, that they were laws driven precisely in legislatures and by socialist governments which opened the possibility that the prosecutor could carry out acts of communication. I was rapporteur on these bills and we opened up new possibilities for prosecutors. What are we doing now in this reform? We are trying, in this need for a more agile and effective process, to have a certification capacity for acts that are already being carried out in accordance with existing law, but which are now being carried out with the necessary help of witnesses or any other suitable means, for example, image or sound reproduction systems. We are now telling you to have that certification capability, but that certification capability will have a validity not iuris et de iure, but iuris tantum, proof will be admitted to the contrary. It will be admitted that if someone does not agree they can really oppose that act. We are therefore preserving the guarantees, but we are giving them a role that we understand the prosecutors can play. We want to escape what could be a criticism of an important professional group. We understand that in this bill, in line already initiated in other legislatures, these communication acts that have already been carried out are being valued. Obviously we can improve it in the course of amendments, but we should not demonise that reform. I now move, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to defend the amendment in its entirety to the draft Organic Law on the Reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. Minister, lost opportunity, lost opportunity and here the diaries of sessions would be cruel to everyone, but would be very cruel to the respective governments, together with those with whom, after the adoption of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia in 2006, after the adoption of the Statute of Autonomy of Andalusia and after the adoption of other statutes of autonomy of new generation, we made a bet. He didn't convergència and united that bet. It was convergència i Unido with the governments of the Socialist Party and convergència i Unido with the complicity of the People's Party in Andalusia, which also approved the Statute of Autonomous Authority of Andalusia, which reflected a series of possibilities that would only be effective when the Organic Law of the Judiciary was adapted to those statutory forecasts. I am talking, for example, about the justice councils of the Autonomous Communities. Is it going to be ghost legislation that is provided for in the statutes of autonomy? Is no one going to give a practical virtuality to what is that power deconcentrated in the Administration of Justice in Catalonia, in Andalusia, in so many autonomous communities that have approved it in their statutes, that have approved it by these General Courts? We say to them: we do not care what the statutes of autonomy say, we do not care that the Constitutional Court has legitimized that these organs may exist; we want to move Olympicly from the jurisdictional distribution that gives some statutes of autonomy some possibilities, and when we should, through organic law, transfer it to the Organic Law of the Judiciary we look elsewhere, we look hypocritically to another, because, was it not an act of hypocrisy to approve that through the General Courts? This is not approved with the ten Members who then had Convergence i Unió. It is approved because there was an absolute majority in these General Courts to carry out those reforms. We have forgotten about it and we cannot accept it. Therefore, the Organic Law of the Judiciary that comes to us, if it does not reflect that which the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and other statutes of autonomy of new generation understand that it must be promoted because it is in those statutes, if you ignore, we will go presenting one to an amendment of return, because we will be saying: pending subject matter, missed occasion. We don't want to play what could be absolutely mind-blowing. I will give you two examples, Minister, which I do not know if you know, but you have been in the Ministry of Public Administration and know the basic Staff Regulations. Well, the basic statute of the public employee, in the article where an official moves to the situation of special services, says: They will move to the situation of special services when they become part of the justice councils of the autonomous communities. phantom article because they do not exist; it will never pass that assumption that it does provide for a law approved by these Courts, the basic statute of the public employee. Another example is the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, which provides that before appointing the senior prosecutor of an autonomous community, a ghost organ, the justice council of that community, must be heard. It was thus legislated in the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it was hypocritically legislated in this way, because then, when it comes to setting up such councils of justice, when we should be able to do so, we do not do so, as we do with statutory provisions, as Mr Esteban said, on the language of the autonomous communities, on the subject of their own law. It is going to be, it is going to remain a merit, but we called for it to be a requirement, as is also all that concerning transfers of staff to the service of the Administration of Justice, that the statutes understand that they should be fully transferred to the competent autonomous communities. I'm closing up. Do we forget the Constitution, Minister, of Article 152? Do we forget the statutes of autonomy such as the Catalan, such as the Valencian, such as the Andalusian or as many others who recognize the higher courts of justice, which culminate in the order in their territory, which have that last instance, that character of court of cassation, without prejudice to the powers of the Supreme Court in the unification of doctrine, but which give them that character of culmination of what are the judicial organs in the respective territories? Instead of delving into it, now that we could through this reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, we again forget about them. Therefore, Minister, we ask you to reconsider this bill, to reconsider it in the direction that marks the statutes of autonomy approved by these General Courts, those statutes of new generation, that we are courageous in fulfilling that. You no longer, but other predecessors of yours in this rostrum had said that this would be the legislature of justice and that the plans to create justice councils in the autonomous communities would be fulfilled. Others said it, at least you have been sincere in saying that you understood that this was not an imposition and that therefore you were not going to develop it, but not doing it is a serious act we understand, a serious act because you are telling the Catalan people, the Andalusian people, that what they voted on in the statutes of autonomy is not worth, because they voted for the existence of organs, of powers in the field of the Administration of Justice, of which after that, when we must comply with them in these General Courts, we forget. That is why we are presenting this amendment in its entirety, calling for the bill to be returned to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the People's Group, Mr Molinero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u166	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the amendments to the entire bill to amend the Civil Prosecution Act. The first thing I would like to do is to congratulate you, Minister, on the clarity in the explanation of the draft law and, secondly, to thank CiU, Mr Jané, for showing a dialogue attitude in order to try to improve this text in the debate on the amendments to the joint text. I want to show the support of the People's Parliamentary Group for the bill and we announce that we are going to vote, logically, as it could not be otherwise, against the amendments to the whole. We are going to support the draft law for two reasons, the first, because the parliamentary group is committed to the citizens to do a faster, faster and more effective justice, to strengthen effective judicial protection and to modernise the administration of justice by encouraging the use of new technologies; the second, because it is also committed to consumers to bring Spanish legislation into line with the provisions of European Union law. Minister, you have explained the bill in detail and I will try to explain why we are going to oppose these amendments in full. I will start by bringing up some of the arguments that the proposing groups are using to justify their amendments. Sincerely, I have been drawn to your arguments, even this very afternoon I have been amazed by some interventions. I am referring in particular to when the proposing groups denounce the fact that the reform enhances the procurator's role by expanding its powers. The proposers say that this reform involves a privatization of justice and to justify it the Socialist Group says: This reform is a further concession to the prosecutors, to whom it deeply dislikes to see the justiciable and even the lawyers, and who regard the view as unnecessary. I think it is an unfortunate and unfair expression, just as it is treated in this way to a collective of this prestige, as it is that of the Spanish prosecutors. [[Applauds]] With all due respect, I think you should explain to those professionals why you have such animosity towards the prosecutors, because this very afternoon I also heard Mr Such say the same thing about the prosecutors. The People's Parliamentary Group does not have that view. I can assure you that we deserve respect and admiration as a collective. [[Applauds]] I find the expression of the Plural Left captivating when to justify an amendment states that a two-speed justice will be installed or, as Mr Tardà has said, a justice for the rich and another for the poor. It is captivating because it introduces a demagogic message to confuse public opinion and also questions the effectiveness of the Public Service vis-à-vis the private. I would ask you, Mr. Llamazares: do you really think that the officials of the Administration of Justice are less effective, less efficient and less agile than the prosecutors? They'll have to explain why they think that way too. I ask you to explain your position to these officials. With regard to the amendment of the whole Republican Left, I am amazed and puzzled and I say to you why. It seems to me to be an unscrupulous amendment and it is a direct mistake to present an amendment to the whole on the basis of which the bill is exceeded by granting prosecutors tasks of judicial execution. Mr. Tardà, the bill only grants acts of communication, but it does not grant acts of embargo or acts of execution. Consequently, I do not understand which bill has been read. I doubt that the amendment they have tabled has sufficient parliamentary rigour and legal rigour to take it into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, if I told you that this reform is a recommendation of the General Council of the Judiciary in the White Paper on Justice, would you continue to maintain that judges are trying to introduce a two-speed justice or that the objective of judges is to privatize justice? It comes in the white book itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the reform is to extend and also to clarify the functions of prosecutors within the text of the Civil Prosecution Act and in Act No. 37/2011 of 10 October 2011 on procedural expediting measures in relation to communication acts. This reform is part of the already existing duality of a system that maintains the possibility that the acts of communication may be carried out either by the services of officials seconded to the Administration of Justice or by the prosecutor, under the responsibility of the party, and it will be the judicial secretary who controls, supervises and directs the procedural acts. The reform is therefore not a privatization of the service, but an option with which the citizen has access and assistance and collaboration in the service of the Administration of Justice, as has been interpreted by the Council of State. There is also no justification for the Socialist Group's amendment on the reform of the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of replying to the complaint does not violate the principle of immediacy, but rather strengthens the principle of effective judicial protection by preventing the defence of the plaintiff in the face of allegations or evidence that are surprisingly made in the oral proceedings. With regard to the complaint of delay in the proceedings that Mr Such has said, I would remind you that it is the view of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State that effective judicial protection must prevail over the agility of the proceedings. There is therefore no basis for the amendment that you are submitting. It is a step towards speeding up the procedure rather than delaying the possibility that the parties may resign from the hearing when the outcome of the proceedings depends on questions of law or when the evidence is unnecessary, without forgetting that this reform of the oral trial is also positively endorsed by the various legal operators. With regard to the reform of the monitoring process, we cannot agree with the particulars of the amendment, firstly because the reform is meeting an obligation to adapt Spanish legislation to European law and secondly because it would be unfair not to protect the consumer from the so-called unfair clauses in the monitoring procedures. I would remind you again that this reform is also supported by the Council of State. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, not without making a brief reference to the statute of limitations. The statute of limitations in the reform of the Civil Procedure Act, on the one hand, is a constant demand by the General Council of the Judiciary to simplify and unify the statute of limitations and, on the other, seeks to regulate that extrajudicial claims may delay the statute of limitations, but do not last forever, thus avoiding what is known as the theory of unfair delay that has caused the debtors so much damage. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the positive attitude of consensus and for the dialogue that the parliamentary groups can maintain during the reform process with the amendments to the joint text that they present. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Molinero. Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. Five refund amendments have been tabled and, I understand, but I am prepared to rectify if not, I give the floor to defend the Socialist Group's amendment to Mrs Aguilar.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before we enter our amendment to the full refund on the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, I would like to make it clear on behalf of my parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in relation to the words of the spokesman of the People's Group who preceded me in the rostrum, that for the Socialist Parliamentary Group the prosecutors deserve all respect and have our appreciation for the work they are doing, but another very different thing is what my colleague Antoni Such expressed from this rostrum and is that we do not share the approach and proposals of the Government in the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act. Therefore, do not attempt to use the prosecutors to confront them with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, brought to this House today by the Government of the People's Party, has a new impact on the rights of citizens with regard to procedural guarantees and, as has already been the case, constitutes a new example of regulatory action that calls into question the minimum legal certainty. With regard to the right to a guaranteed trial, the first point in article 24.2 of the Constitution is the right to a natural judge, i.e. the ordinary judge established by law. Well, from our point of view, various precepts of this reform allow possible components to open the door to which the constitutional precept invoked is bordered. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are not going to carry out, as you have said, your star project to reorganise the judicial plant: the so-called courts of instance. This project, although not of interest to you at this time and devoted itself to speaking, Minister, contemplates reforms to push through the back door some of its aims and objectives. I say this because measures are taken that, under the coverage of the necessary specialization in the field of gender-based violence, allow the jurisdictional extension in the demarcation to be agreed by the Government by royal decree in the field of courts of violence against women. And not only this, it also allows the chambers of government, with the composition that derives from the system designed by the People's Party Government in the 2013 law of reform of the council, to agree on changes in the rules of distribution of courts of the commercial, criminal, juvenile, prison, contentious-administrative or social matters, without counting on the opinions of the judges concerned. It also provides that the General Council of the Judiciary may, on an exceptional basis and for the time to be determined - thank you for beginning to listen, Minister - with favourable reports from the Ministry of Justice, heard the governing chamber and, where appropriate, the autonomous communities competent in the field of justice, that one or more courts of the same province and of the same jurisdiction assume the knowledge of certain classes or matters of affairs and, where appropriate, of the executions arising therefrom, even if their initial knowledge was attributed to bodies based in different judicial parties. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u169	Excuse me, Mrs. Aguilar. Please be quiet so we can hear Mrs. Aguilar. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u170	Minister, you know very well that imposing by royal decree, by agreement of the chamber of government or by rules of distribution measures that involve changes in the demarcation or competences attributed by the law itself clearly goes against the natural judge. They seem to be trying to return us to the time of the special courts. Their reform, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, always expresses a longing for the past, which is where they seem to want to lead us with the policy they practice. Along with all that has been said, this draft shows a clear intention of the Government, which is already common, that it is nothing other than to control the judiciary, in this case through the organs of the General Council of the Judiciary. Its intention has already been demonstrated in Organic Law 4/2013 of 28 June, and this bill is made public. As shown, three examples. First, the Government re-amends the composition of the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary, a reform which is not justified in the explanatory statement, simply because it has no justification based at least on rigour, objectivity or necessity. They increase the standing committee of the General Council into two more members. Minister, why did you not explain this in your speech? If in 2013 they put six why now eight? What is the reason for this change? What do you want with him? Has anyone specifically asked you to do so? There are many questions to which you should answer because, if you do not give answers, we will have to apply the saying of thinking badly and you will be right. Second. With regard to the appointment of judges over seventy years of age, they change the current situation consolidated by case law - he has not said anything about it - including, even, the judges of the Supreme Court. What are the reasons and arguments for this? Can they explain or should they be silenced? Thirdly, the new regulation of the technical cabinet of the Supreme Court converts it into a cabinet of the president, which may result, or perhaps that is the intention, in a control body of the chamber. Many intentions, I do not know if unconfessed and unconfessable, Minister. Little clarity and much opacity. This project also highlights the total lack of political commitment to equality by the Government of the People's Party and its ministry, Mr Catalá, and it is that, in the area of equality, as in the law of gags or in the Penal Code, the Government returns us to the dark years of the last century and keeps us further away from the European Union. I say this, among other things, because in the judicial career 52 % are women and the draft changes the regulation of the equality commission, by the way, which is also not justified in the explanatory statement, probably because they have no arguments to amend their own law. With the amendment they claim, no more or less, that it is not necessary, as the law currently says, that it be a woman who presides over the equality commission of the General Council of the Judiciary. What explanation do you have for this? All this also occurs in a context in which the other three commissions are chaired by men. This is the policy of the People's Party that generates discrimination and inequality and permanently harms women, but do not have the slightest doubt that women will know how to respond to the People's Party. Similarly, the bill highlights once again something that has become commonplace and is the desire to privatize the People's Party permanently, since it enables the issuing of reports and opinions by forensic doctors and the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences at the request of individuals, and we can already imagine who will be the individuals who will request it. The same philosophy was raised in the Penal Code, although it was later withdrawn. I hope that they will do the same in this reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as a result of the repeated request of the national college, that is what you have said, and some of the organisations of the judicial secretaries change the name to the lawyer of the administration of justice, but they do not recognize him as new functions or incorporate in this organic law functions that they have recognized in the procedural laws. We believe that this is a missed opportunity to place the judicial secretaries in their proper space and place. They add nothing about the direction of the judicial office, but they do open up the possibility of covert dismissals to temporary registrars by means of the new regulations they establish for replacements. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are faced with the same situation that meant the dismissal of 700 substitute judges and 300 prosecutors by the People's Party government. They add absolutely nothing that can really place on those just terms and places the judicial secretaries. I'm done. Minister, stop cutting rights to citizenship; stop privatizing justice; stop harming the administration of justice with its policies; stop sowing inequality, which is what happens with this legal reform. The People's Party Government, once again, shows us that it governs for a minority and that its policies are causing irreparable damage to the majority of citizens. For all these reasons I have put forward, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we call for the House's parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this complete amendment that we have tabled to return this Organic Law on Judicial Power, which is what it deserves, to the People's Party Government. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aguilar. For the People's Group, Mr. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u172	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has pointed out, we are faced with a reform that places its focus especially on two aspects that require permanent attention from public institutions and that are of great benefit to citizens: the modernisation of justice and the fight against gender-based violence. The first of these objectives, the modernization and transformation of justice, as you know, is not new. For more than a decade there has been a demand for justice that acts quickly, effectively and quality, in which response times are reasonable and the maximum possible levels of professionalization and specialization are achieved. The bill that the Government has referred to the Courts does precisely that, undertake a number of necessary reforms in the Organic Law of the Judiciary to provide an adequate response to the general demand for a more efficient functioning of the Administration of Justice, so that citizens receive a service that not only provides them with solutions but also takes place within a reasonable time. In short, the measures announced to us by the Minister should be welcomed if our challenge, that of all, is to ensure that justice works properly. Nevertheless, this afternoon we are debating five amendments in their entirety; amendments by which the groups that have subscribed to them defend an initial veto of this draft calling for its return; amendments by which they refuse to allow our obsolete judicial organisation to be made more flexible, with which they criticize the greater specialization in our courts and amendments with which they oppose a new system of burden-sharing. Frankly, I must tell you that I do not understand the reasons why you are opposed to this reform. I cannot understand that you reject a reform that will serve not only to modernize and speed up our justice, but also to improve the fight against gender-based violence, which is the other great objective of the project we are debating today. Ladies and gentlemen, some may think that it is better to do nothing or that the current system works reasonably well. To those who think so, I am sorry to say that citizens do not share that view. Neither do we, nor the vast majority of this House. At this point, they will allow me to respond to some of the questions that have been raised today to justify the rejection of the initiative we are debating. I shall begin by referring to the amendments tabled by Convergence i Unió and the Basque Parliamentary Group, because they are amendments which present common points. Firstly, with regard to the establishment of judicial councils in the autonomous communities, I would like to point out to you that their possible regulation in the area of the judiciary is a legislative option, rather than an obligation, as is apparent from the judgement of the Constitutional Court 31/2010. This is therefore a legitimate proposal which is not, however, required by society as a whole. Furthermore, article 122 of the Constitution links the status of a governing body with the principle of judicial unity. This is a reality already interpreted by the Constitutional Court, which in June 2010 declared unconstitutional the Council of Justice of Catalonia regulated in its Statute of Autonomy. Therefore, the autonomous justice councils, outside the competences assumed by the autonomous communities in relation to the administration of justice, cannot be governing bodies of the judiciary, which seems to be what you intend, and therefore cannot have competence in the matter of appointments, promotions, inspection or disciplinary regime, for the simple reason that no other body, except the General Council of the Judiciary, can exercise the function of governing the jurisdictional bodies integrated in the judiciary. With regard to the fact that knowledge of the languages proper to the Autonomous Communities is a requirement or only a merit, I do not want to reopen a debate that we have already had in this House, so I will confine myself to pointing out that this proposal shows little sensitivity towards the model of linguistic co-officiality. Under the imposition of the exclusive and exclusive requirement of the own language and co-official of the corresponding autonomous communities for judges, judges, prosecutors and by extension to all professionals involved in judicial proceedings, you seek to deny the legitimate rights of those who freely opt for the use of the Castilian. To try to reconvert the present plural system, where the knowledge of such languages is considered as preferential merit but not as a requirement in the competitions for jurisdictional bodies in these autonomous communities, in order to make it a strict form of monolingualism in the judicial as rigid and absolute as the one they present, is - you know - not only limiting and impoverishing but incompatible with the constitutional design. With regard to their criticism of the composition of the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary, I would like to inform you that, following the experience of almost a year of operation of the new Council, the bill increases its membership from five to seven members, as proposed by the General Council of the Judiciary in its report to the preliminary draft of the Organic Law. Moreover, the model of the council regulated by Organic Law 4/2013 is maintained, which, beyond political criticism, responds to the democratic decision of the General Courts, whose will is respected in the text we are discussing. I now turn to the amendment tabled by the Plural Left, which states that justice needs a change of organizational model, but not this one. I think we should not worry, what would not be natural and should even make us think - both formations, of course - is that you liked this project very much. In any case, I must thank you for the small concession you make to the bill by pointing out that there are few and timely changes that can be considered positive; something is something, and coming from your group the truth is that this small recognition greatly comforts us. Coming now to your criticisms, you come to consider that reform is a conglomerate of measures of little silence, but you have not been able to propose different or alternative measures, neither large nor small scale, that could improve the legislative text that is under way. Among its criticisms come to stress that the model of reform remains in all its ineffectiveness, since the courts of instance are left aside. At this point you will not be surprised that the first feeling that I have read such a statement is of profound perplexity, for the truth is that they have changed and a lot of opinion in recent months. I do not think I have to remind you that with the creation of provincial courts of instance in all the jurisdictional orders provided for in the preliminary draft it was intended to replace the current judicial parties, and you radically opposed that proposal. The reason why the bill has finally opted for the maintenance of judicial parties, abandoning the model of courts of instance, has been in the Government's interest that judicial parties remain a factor of territorial cohesion, and I believe that this should not be criticized by its group. I am now referring to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy, and I must point out to you that the fact that you have taken advantage of your amendment to talk about important issues, such as the slowness of justice, the need to strengthen the judicial system especially to combat corruption and to equalise the European average of judges per inhabitant, the burden on the courts, etc., thus limiting itself to making a number of criticisms about the judicial system, implies a diagnosis of the situation and the problem that I must admit I do not share at all, but without presenting alternatives or amendments to the measures proposed by the Government in the draft organic law that we are discussing. Therefore, as I understand that even though they have tried to do so, it is that they have not tabled a real amendment to the bill as a whole, I cannot comment on it further. As for the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, the first thing to draw attention to is the use of hollow phrases for a hollow amendment. Thus, they accuse this project of being a counter-reform and of assaulting citizens' rights. The truth is that I don't know what they mean because the only thing that assaults us is the doubt when reading your amendment about what they mean by using this topic as handy as rancio. Are citizens' rights being violated when a better distribution of matters is possible? When are specialised judges expected to settle disputes or have more jurisdiction over the governing body of the judiciary? Is citizens being run over when the protection of personal data from judicial documentation is regulated? Or when the Supreme Court cabinets are enhanced? Or when it deepens the statutory staff regime at the service of the Administration of Justice, having achieved a pre-agreement with most trade union organizations, including UGT? They point out that the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law is being attacked. Go ahead as a surprise and much to be said that the Constitutional Court has not taken this right seriously. Perhaps the problem is much simpler; it is you who are completely unaware of what ordinary judge predeterminate by law means. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u173	Mr. Castillo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u174	I'm done, Mr. President. My group, while rejecting the amendments that have been tabled in their entirety, is open to a full and constructive dialogue. I am convinced that during the parliamentary process, among all of us, also with the help of those who have tabled amendments today in full, we will be able to add improvements to an initiative that will undoubtedly lead to improvement and transformation of our administration of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u175	In two minutes we vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u176	We will proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution. In place of Don Antonio Cantó García del Moral I ask Don Julio Lleonart i Crespo if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u177	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u178	Don Julio Lleonart i Crespo has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u179	Next, the secretary will proceed to read an institutional statement from all groups on the future network of Cherenkov telescopes [[CTA]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u180	With venial, Mr. President. The future network of Cherenkov telescopes will be the largest gamma-ray observatory in the world and will allow mapping of much of the previously unknown territory. It is a great international facility that will include two locations; one in the northern hemisphere, and the other in the south, to cover the whole sky. A few days ago, the thirteen countries financing the project announced that they will start negotiations with Spain and Mexico to decide which of the two will host the northern observatory. The CTA will cost around €200 million and is expected to be completed around 2020. It will be ten times more powerful than the current Cherenkov telescopes and among its main objectives is to reveal the origin of cosmic rays and explore dark matter. Overall, some 1,500 scientists and engineers from 29 countries participate in the project. Getting to house an installation like this would have no precedent in Spain. The proposed place is the Roque de los Muchachos Observatory, on the island of La Palma, where there are already front-line telescopes such as the Gran Telescopio de Canarias. The Government of the State, the Government of the Canary Islands and the Institute of Astrophysics of the Canary Islands have been working for months to promote a candidacy that would mean, in the event of being realized, the consolidation of the Canary Islands as one of the most important spaces on the planet in the study and research of astronomy. The final decision on the site will be taken before December. For this reason, the Congress of Deputies expresses its support for the Government of the State, in collaboration with the Government of the Canary Islands and the Institute of Astrophysics of the Canary Islands, to continue to make progress in the open negotiations to ensure that the Roque de los Muchachos, on the island of La Palma, is the seat of the future Cherenkov Telescope Network.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u181	We shall proceed to the votes. We have reduced the time to ten seconds, but I warn you that they are quite, therefore, I ask for silence and patience. Motion by the Group of the Plural Left on the current situation and prospects for the future of the military bases for joint use in our country. It is going to vote on its own terms, but separated by points. Point one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 12 against, 291 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u182	It's rejected. Second point. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 votes in favour, 19 against, 279 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u183	It's rejected. Point three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 10 against, 285 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u184	It's rejected. Point four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 20 against, 285 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u185	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 127 against 175 abstentions 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u186	It's rejected. - the Catalan parliamentary group, on the priorities of the Government to empower the digital economy. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 173/000203]] [[VOTING]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u187	Motion by the Catalan Parliamentary Group, on the Government's priorities for enhancing the digital economy. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Catalan Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 305 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u188	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u189	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 3/2015 of 22 March, providing for an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment to combat fraud in public services, to boost the functioning of the Administration of Justice and to implement the measures provided for in Law 27/2013 of 27 December, on rationalization and sustainability of the Local Administration. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; 178 plus 2 telematics votes, 180; 10; abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u190	It was adopted. Now we are going to vote on its processing as a bill for the urgency procedure. There are also two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; in favour, 129 plus 1 telematics vote, 130; against, 177 plus 1 telematics vote, 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u191	It will not be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u192	Senate amendments. Draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act and the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary to transpose Directive 2010/64/EU of 20 October 2010 on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/13/EU of 22 May 2012 on the right to information in criminal proceedings. We shall begin by voting on the amendments to Rule 1. Five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 199 against, 104 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u193	They're approved. Amendments to the first final provision [[before third]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 183 against 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u194	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 279 against, 10 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u195	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u196	This bill is organic in nature, so we are going to proceed to the vote as a whole. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; in favour, 179 plus 1 telematics vote, 180; against, 26; abstentions, 101 plus 1 telematics vote, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u197	It's approved. - Draft law on the status of the victim of the crime. [[File number 121/00115]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u198	We then vote on the draft law on the status of the victim of the crime. Firstly, amendments to Article 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 275 against, 26 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u199	They're approved. Amendments to article 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes cast; 306 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u200	They shall be adopted unanimously. Amendments to the first additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 206 against 92 abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u201	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes cast; 305 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u202	They shall be adopted unanimously. - DRAFT ENTERPRISE FINANCING LAW. [[File number 121/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u203	Business Financing Promotion Bill. Amendment to Article 94, paragraph 1a. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 289 against, 15 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u204	It's approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 287 against, 1 abstention, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u205	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u206	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We will make two votes, a first one will be on the Convention between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on cooperation in the field of security and the fight against crime, done at Yeda on 18 May 2014. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 284 against, 10 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u207	It was adopted. - Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, to take into account the accession of Croatia to the European Union, done in Brussels on 25 March 2014. [[File number 110/000148]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT AND THE MACEDONIAN GOVERNMENT FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 5 NOVEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/000149]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPUR FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN THE FIELD OF DEFENCE, DONE IN SINGAPUR ON 12 NOVEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/000150]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN TO AVOID DOUBLE IMPOSEMENT AND PREVENTION OF TAX EVALUATION IN THE MATTER OF TAXES ON THE INCOME AND THE PATRIMONY AND THE PROTOCOL, DONE IN MADRID ON 8 JULY 2013. [[File number 110/000152]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF VANUATU ON RECIPROCAL SUPERSSION OF VISITS IN DIPLOMATIC PASSPORTS, DONE IN NEW YORK ON 26 SEPTEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/00153]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD AGAINST CRIMINATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 25 JULY 2013. [[File number 110/000154]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAURU ON RECIPROCAL SUPERSSION OF VISITS IN DIPLOMATIC PASSPORTS, DONE IN NEW YORK ON 8 OCTOBER 2014. [[File number 110/00155]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u208	We now proceed to a joint vote on the remaining seven agreements. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 301 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u209	They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u210	Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Firstly, there is an amendment by the Joint Group, Amendment 64, to which the People's Party has submitted a compromise. [[Mr. Salvador]] I ask: is there any objection to the transactional being voted on? [[Denials]] The compromise amendment was voted on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 280 against, 1 abstention, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u211	It's approved. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments Nos 9 and 19. [[Mrs Oramas and Mr Quevedo]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 28 against, 184 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u212	They're rejected. Amendments 10, 12, 16 and 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 120 against, 182 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u213	They're rejected. Amendment 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 23 against, 277 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u214	It's rejected. Amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 17 against, 190 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u215	It's rejected. Amendment 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 118 against, 181 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u216	It's rejected. Amendment 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 300 votes in favour 108 against 186; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u217	It's rejected. Amendment 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 17 against, 273 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u218	It's rejected. Amendment 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 16 against, 183 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u219	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments by Mrs Oramas and Mr Quevedo. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 111 against, 181 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u220	They're rejected. Amendments by Mrs Fernández Davila. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 118 against, 179 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u221	They're rejected. Mrs Jordà's amendments. Firstly, Amendments Nos 92 and 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 117 against, 181 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u222	They're rejected. Amendments 101, 103 and 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 17 against, 274 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u223	They're rejected. The rest of Mrs Jordà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 25 against, 273 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u224	They're rejected. Amendments by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendments Nos 23, 28, 29, 41, 42, 45 to 47 and 51. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 5 against, 294 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u225	They're rejected. Amendments 24 and 43. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 5 against, 272 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u226	They're rejected. Amendments 26, 27 and 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 99 against, 188 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u227	They're rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 5 against, 280 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u228	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Plural Left'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 118 against, 183 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u229	They're rejected. Vote on the amendments by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. Amendment 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304; 119; 177; 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u230	It's rejected. Amendment 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 117 against, 179 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u231	It's rejected. Amendments 69 and 71. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 28 against, 273 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u232	They're rejected. Amendment 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 14 against, 281 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u233	It's rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 116 against 183 abstentions 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u234	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 56. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 91 against 193 abstentions 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u235	It's rejected. Amendment 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 115 against, 183 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u236	It's rejected. Amendments 58 to 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 118 against, 182 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u237	They're rejected. Amendments 62 and 63. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 94 against, 178 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u238	They're rejected. Individual votes of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Firstly, particular vote No 1 on Amendment No 83. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304; 123; 176; 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u239	It's rejected. Particular vote No 1 on Amendment No 87. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 votes in favour, 125 against, 175 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u240	It's rejected. And particular vote No 1 on Amendment No 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 127 against 175 abstentions 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u241	It's rejected. We shall now vote on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 177 against 127 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u242	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u243	We are now going to vote on the bill as a whole, as it is organic. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; 178 plus 1 telematics vote, 179; 127 plus 1 telematics vote, 128; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u244	The draft organic law was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u245	We shall now proceed with the joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the bill amending Law 43/2003 of 21 November 2003 on Montes, tabled by the Joint Group; of the Plural Left, the Socialist Group, the Progressive Union and Democracy and the Basque People There are two votes cast telematically. [[Mrs Fernández Davila, Mrs Ariztegui and Mrs Jordà]] [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 297 plus 2 telematics votes, 299; in favour, 117 plus 1 telematics vote, 118; against, 175 plus 1 telematics vote, 176; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u246	The amendments in their entirety are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u247	We voted in favour of the motion for acknowledgment by the plenary of the deliberation of the bill. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; in favour, 125 plus 1 telematics vote, 126; against, 181 plus 1 telematics vote, 182.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u248	It will not be discussed in plenary. Draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. [[File number 121/00131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u249	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, submitted by the Catalan and Mixed parliamentary groups There are two votes cast by telematics. [[Convergence and Union]] [[Mr. Tardà]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; 29; 184 plus 2 telematics votes, 186; abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u250	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u251	We shall now vote in favour of the House's motion for a resolution and vote on this draft. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; in favour, 304 plus 1 telematics vote, 305; against, 2 plus 1 telematics vote, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u252	It will be discussed in plenary. - DRAFT CIVIL LAW REFORM LAW. [[File number 121/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u253	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft law reforming the Civil Prosecution Act, submitted by the parliamentary groups of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural, Socialist and Mixed Left There are two votes cast telematically. [[Mr. Tardà]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; 104 plus 1 telematics vote, 105; 193 plus 1 telematics vote, 194; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u254	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u255	Voting in favour of the plenary of this bill. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; 128 plus 1 telematics vote, 129; 175 plus 1 telematics vote, 176; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u256	It's rejected. - DRAFT ORGANICAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY OF THE JULY OF THE JUDICIAL POWER. [[File number 121/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u257	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, submitted by the Catalan parliamentary groups, of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Socialist, of UPyD and Vasco There are two votes cast telematically. [[Convergence and Union]] [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; in favour, 126 plus 1 telematics vote, 127; against, 179 plus 1 telematics vote, 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u258	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u259	We are going to vote on three motions for avocado submitted by the Socialist Group to so many other bills, which have not been the subject of full debate, since they have not been submitted to the same amendments of this kind. Request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on audit of accounts, submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 303 plus 2 telematics votes, 305; in favour, 127 plus 1 telematics vote, 128; against, 176 plus 1 telematics vote, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u260	It will not be deliberate in plenary. - DRAFT LAW ON RECOVERY AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES AND ENTERPRISES OF INVESTMENT SERVICES, PRESENTED BY THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP. [[File number 121/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u261	Request for a writ for the draft law on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies, submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 plus 2 telematics votes, 305; 125 plus 1 telematics vote, 126; 176 plus 1 telematics vote, 177; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u262	He won't be calling the House. - DRAFT SECOND OPPORTUNITY MECHANISM LAW, REDUCTION OF THE FINANCIAL CHARGE AND OTHER SOCIAL MEASURES, PRESENTED BY THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP. [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECREATOR 1/2015 OF 27 FEBRUARY]] [[File number 121/000137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u263	Request for acknowledgment by the plenary of the draft second-opportunity mechanism law, reduction of the financial burden and other social measures. [[Proceeding from Royal Decree-Law 1/2015, of 27 February]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 304 plus 2 telematics votes; 306; in favour, 127 plus 1 telematics vote, 128; against, 177 plus 1 telematics vote, 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-16-CD150416.u264	There's no calling for a full court. The meeting rose. It was nine and five minutes of the night. http://www.congreso.es Calle Floridablanca, s/n. 28071 Madrid
