ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers from 110/00156 to 110/00162. These are items 29 to 35 of the agenda. Some groups have expressed their desire to intervene for the time set in the Board of Spokespersons and which they know. We begin with the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, and Mrs Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will soon refer exclusively to the various international conventions on the Association Agreement with Georgia, which my parliamentary group considers particularly significant because it falls within a special and important political framework to strengthen relations with Georgia, accelerate political partnership and promote economic integration, not only between the European Union and Georgia but also between Spain and Georgia itself. We believe that it is an effort and that the firm will continue to drive political and socio-economic reforms, as well as facilitating the approach to the European Union that Georgia needs. We also welcome the country's cooperation in police cooperation and in the fight against organized crime and terrorism, which is particularly important if we take into account the difficulties of relations between Georgia and Russia. I would like to recall in particular that Russia continues to occupy the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, violating rules and principles of international law and also that ethnic cleansing and demographic change have been carried out by force in areas under effective control of the Russian occupying force. The European Union has for a long time devoted great efforts in Georgia and to realize that negotiations on the partnership agreement have progressed rapidly and that the European Union has found a good partner there is nothing more to see than various resolutions of the European Parliament, such as that of 3 September 2008 on the situation in Georgia; that of 20 May 2010 on the need for a European Union strategy for the South Caucasus and that of 7 April 2011 on the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy in its eastern dimension. However, we would also like to take this opportunity to appeal for monitoring of the capacity to fulfil the corresponding commitments made, always taking into account the specific situation and ambition of Georgia. We need to reaffirm that Georgia's active participation and commitment to shared values and principles, such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, are essential to ensuring a sustainable impact on the country's development. We also believe that further improvements are needed in the area of reforms in the judicial system, labour rights, integration of minorities and especially women's rights. In conclusion, we believe that the partnership agreement takes a step further in cooperation not only in Spain but also in Europe with an important partner in the region and reaffirms the commitment of the Union and Spain to promoting their fundamental values beyond their borders. We will therefore vote in favour of this agreement as well as the others that are before the House. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. Mr Nuet has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. We have requested a separate vote on paragraph 35 of the Convention between the Kingdom of Spain and the Sultanate of Oman. Some will say that it is a tax convention and, therefore, how we can oppose a tax convention; but, precisely, we do not want it to be seen as something normal that Spain and the Sultanate of Oman sign a tax convention and nothing else, because we do not have much opportunity to talk about the Sultanate of Oman. Today we have one and it's worth taking advantage of. What do we have before us? Obviously, one of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, one of the absolute monarchies of the Gulf countries. We are talking about a sultan who rules absolutely with a Parliament that has some powers. But you must know that this Parliament only elects 190,000 citizens of the 3 million inhabitants of the Sultanate of Oman by vote. Therefore, we are not talking much less about a democratic country. In Spain we know him well. King Don Juan Carlos visited the Sultanate of Oman a year ago and one of the assiduous in that country is our Minister of Defense, Mr. Morenés. We advise the Sultanate of Oman on military matters and others. Therefore, we have a very close relationship with that country. It should also be recalled that Oman has not signed any of the majority of international human rights conventions. In addition, there is a reality denounced by most human rights non-governmental organizations, some Spanish but others with permanent headquarters in Cairo, which after the Arab Spring and the wave of protests that has also taken place in Oman since 2011, the Government goes on to enact a series of repressive laws, decrees-laws, which have actually been tightening both the Criminal Code and the Procedural Law in order to try to ensure that there is no freedom of opinion or freedom of expression. That is the reality with which we find ourselves; a non-democratic country with which we cannot, normally, sign conventions as if we were talking about another country, because then we would be forgetting the human rights and freedoms that are violated every day in Oman. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Mr Xuclà has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group in order to establish our interest and announce support for the set of international treaties, stressing in particular the importance of supporting the international treaty on Macedonia's free trade with the rest of the Member States of the European Union, following the consequences of the incorporation of an old member of Macedonia such as Croatia. Thus, the ratification of the convention concerning Macedonia leads - the liberalisation of trade in leading products - directly to Croatia's accession to the European Union. Moreover, it is a good time to support Macedonia when Macedonia - I am sure that the colleagues present in the Chamber who follow with interest these countries know it - is experiencing a serious institutional crisis that requires precisely the support, in the form of ratification, of this international treaty this morning. It is an institutional crisis characterized by the boycott of the minority in Parliament, whereby, following the path of the Albanian Parliament a few years ago, the opposition in Parliament simply does not take part in parliamentary activity; and an institutional crisis characterized by the scandal of knowing that in the past four and a half years the Government and the majority of Macedonia's politicians had been systematically recorded in their public and private lives; absolutely inappropriate and inappropriate practice which I hope will not be practiced in other states where the rule of law prevails. It is also a good time, ladies and gentlemen, to support the international treaty on Moldova and relations between Moldova and the European Union. Moldova is a country on the doorstep of a well-known and highly supported country by the Moldovan community such as Romania, which gives great support to Moldova for historical reasons that need not be commented on. However, now that we are talking so much about frozen conflicts, now that we are talking about South Ossetia, Abkhazia or Nagorno-Karabakh, it is good to remember that the oldest frozen conflict is that of Transnistria and that aid from the European Union thanks to that international treaty to Moldova is undoubtedly aid for the consolidation of one of the poorest countries in Europe but with a European perspective; aid that has been achieved by the liberalisation of visas and the stability that a new government left the ballot box last autumn, which prevented a pro-Russian party from finally reaching the government when it was very close to achieving it in the polls. At the moment there is a coalition between liberals and socialists without an absolute majority and waiting for the holding of municipal elections very soon, in weeks' time. Then surely - there they are all called liberals - the real liberals, after the talks they are having with the government, will definitely form a stability government. Moldova has been won after those elections for the pro-European cause and the ratification of this convention is clearly highly appreciated by Moldova after the European Union's great commitment to visa liberalisation. Finally, I would also like to make a reference to the international treaty concerning Georgia, perhaps not with the unconditional enthusiasm of the spokesman who preceded me in speaking because precisely the years of relationship and desire for things to go well with Georgia have led me to the conclusion that things are a little more complicated. We have tried to help Georgia, like Ukraine, and perhaps the over-effort of some administrations across the Atlantic to try to make two very close States in Georgia and Ukraine has had counterproductive effects. In Georgia, the change of government is not just a change of government, but almost a change of regime. Georgia has a new majority; a majority that maintains its candidacy for the European Union and that maintains its commitments of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, but Georgia is a country that still needs a lot of help, and with this instrument, with this international treaty, it is provided to improve its standards of institutionalization, of combating corruption and of creating a modern, reliable and non-politicized judicial system. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support the whole of the treaties, even that of the Sultanate of Oman, because there is no better way to start an explanation of reasons than to say: This is about improving trade treatment, but taking advantage of the fact that the river passes under the bridge, we are going to vote that not for other reasons that do not cause the content of this international treaty. When we have to talk about human rights and Oman we are going to do so in plenary and in the Commission, but now we, ladies and gentlemen, are going to support all the treaties because we are voting on the subject, the articulate, the substance of them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sáez Jubero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our parliamentary group we announce our vote in favour of the conventions that we are voting on today, as is always the position of our parliamentary group. Allow me in any case to highlight some of the issues raised in the ensuing discussion of these conventions. My group welcomes the agreements that are being put to the vote by the European Union's association with Georgia and Moldova, countries of the Eastern Neighbourhood of the European Union, especially at a time of crisis in Ukraine and at a time when the European Union is considering a revision of its neighbourhood policy, with an initial document from the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy, Mrs Mogherini, and the need to combine our neighbourhood policy with our common foreign and security policy. The spokesman for La Izquierda Plural also referred to the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Sultanate of Oman, which - although it has already been said - refers to double taxation and to the prevention of tax evasion in the area of income tax and its protocol. My group believes that this is a good thing. As for arguing why a positive vote - despite the arguments used by the spokesman for the Plural Left that have nothing to do with this convention - it must be said that with countries like Oman, with which we have a bilateral relationship and have a diplomatic office in Mascate, we must seek such agreements and approve them. Ladies and gentlemen, all this without prejudice to the fact that we must be very demanding in the field of human rights, also with our Government. My parliamentary group has been denouncing that we are taking steps back as a country in the defence of human rights, just at the moment when Spain has this responsibility in the United Nations Security Council. It includes some of the issues that have been said today, such as our concern that Spain has increased the sale of weapons at a very complicated time in the Middle East. We must be demanding in the field of human rights. Today the government has a good opportunity with President Al Sisi's visit to Spain. It is a good opportunity, despite the fact that it is an agenda at the discretion of our very economic parliamentary group, for political meetings to transfer to the President of Egypt the need for respect for human rights in Egypt. Recently, the Government has had another opportunity that, in our view, it has missed in Indonesia. Indeed, yesterday the Secretary of State told us that Minister García-Margallo had cancelled his visit to Indonesia, but it was a good opportunity for the Government to condemn the death penalty in Indonesia by making a clearer defence of human rights. Finally, I remind the Government that it would be very necessary, despite the fact that the legislature is well advanced, to present the Second Human Rights Plan in order to strengthen that clear and compelling position of Spain in this area at a time - I repeat - in which Spain has responsibilities in the United Nations Security Council. Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Sáez Jubero. For the People's Group, Mr Beneyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. What better way, Mr Sáez, to express the rejection of death sentences in Indonesia than to cancel an official trip planned by the Foreign Minister. It has been a very clear gesture of this Government's commitment to human rights in the world, as is generally the case with all situations in which human rights are violated. Yesterday we had the appearance of the Secretary of State in which he clearly expressed his willingness to take advantage of the bilateral talks during Al Sisi's visit today to express once again clearly the position of this Government in the field of human rights. What brings us to the rostrum right now is the ratification of a number of conventions, two of them with Vietnam. I would like to point out this horizon of Spanish foreign policy, which is Asia, where this government is marking a number of major milestones, the last of the Minister's recent trip to India. Of the two agreements with Vietnam, one is an extradition agreement and the other refers to the transfer of convicted persons. We also have the ratification of two European Union association agreements with Georgia and Moldova. Indeed, we are in the vicinity of this - the new framework of relations with these countries through the Council of Europe - and we are following in a very close way what the situation is. Both countries need the continued support of the European Union and its member countries in order to take the necessary steps towards their full integration, if not in the European Union, in that broader area which creates the partnership agreements and in a more specific way the eastern neighbourhood. The same is true of Macedonia, where stabilization is necessary, so the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on the entry of Croatia into the European Union will help to achieve these objectives. The ratification of the convention on Granada for the abolition of visas for diplomatic passports, as well as of the convention discussed here by La Izquierda Plural with Oman on double taxation and tax evasion, is proposed. Oman is a country with a very particular situation. Regulated by the Qaboos since the beginning of their independence, they have problems with the succession of the present Sultan. It is a branch of Islam, the Ibandi branch; however, it has an important minority of Shia and Sunni and a very varied ethnic composition, as shown by the number of languages spoken in addition to the official: Swahili, Urdu, Baluchi and Farsi. But Oman has particularly privileged external relations, on the one hand, with Iran and, on the other, with the United States, Turkey and with India and Pakistan. Oman, therefore, discreetly plays an essential diplomacy on this changing, complex board, in which the Arab world has been moving for several years and, in particular, at this time. The relationship with Saudi Arabia has been strained by the intervention in Yemen, but Oman must play a leading role in the Gulf Cooperation Council, which has on many occasions been unable or unwilling to play. The existing cooperation agreement with the European Union and the free trade agreement negotiated for several years have not advanced. At the moment, it is a good opportunity for Spain to strengthen its relations with this country, which is the fifth on the Arabian peninsula with greater hydrocarbon reserves, and this agreement is a good opportunity to do so. It is the occasion - as is the case with Egypt and other countries where there may be a need to identify human rights violations - for it to be done from diplomacy rather than by closing doors or turning its back. Diplomacy is the best way of engagement, of interlocking, of conversation, of changing situations. This is what the conventions do, in particular the agreement with Oman, which we are coming to ratify today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Beneyto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u12	We are going to proceed with the next item on the agenda and, as we agreed at the Spokesman's Meeting, we are going to discuss cumulatively the amendments presented to the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the speeding up of criminal justice and the strengthening of procedural guarantees and those submitted to the draft organic law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the strengthening of procedural guarantees and the regulation of technological research measures. That is, the projects will be discussed together. The Minister of Justice has the floor for his joint presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two rules governing this whole debate respond to the same initiative, which is no longer possible by affecting the criminal procedure which, as you know, was conceived at the end of the 19th century. It has been a long time, therefore, that there is an urgent need to update the procedural aspect of our criminal law both in the media and in the ends, since it is obvious that Spanish society is very different in its way of life, in its concerns and in the demands of the public authorities and justice. This is certainly a relevant goal for all actors in the judicial system, I would dare to say that for society as a whole, in line with the Government's commitment to provide an adequate public service to citizens. The fact, on the other hand, that the reform is partial - and that is why it is a reform and not anything else - does not, in my view, make any difference, since it seeks the dual purpose of satisfying the legal operators by increasing the certainty of the system by incorporating the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court and also meeting the very legitimate demands of society, which demands that those responsible for serious crimes be tried within a reasonable time and that the defrauded assets be recovered logically from respect for the fundamental rights of the parties. Far from implying improvisation, this reform is integrated into a broader project in line with those already committed to the Organic Law of the Judiciary or the Criminal Code with the will always to achieve this balance between effectiveness and efficiency and guarantee of the rights of the persons investigated. This bill is also hereditary of many previous works, of commissions of experts, including projects drawn up by the previous government and in recent years by the former socialist governments. Therefore, as it is not an improvised reform, it is also economically viable, which is not a minor aspect in the current context. The absence of costs indicates precisely the responsibility of the Government, which has sought a model for updating the procedural system without having an impact on the State Budgets this improvement. As recognized by the amendments themselves submitted, the processing of the projects has also served to improve the initial articulation by collecting suggestions made by the advisory bodies - the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney-General and the opinion of the Council of State - starting, for example, with the advisability of disengaging the project in two texts, one of an organic and one of an ordinary nature. It is therefore clear that the Government will listen to legal operators in terms of improving our criminal process in a context of dialogue and consensus-building. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform has three fundamental objectives: to speed up justice, to strengthen the procedural guarantees of the investigated and to promote democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption. Surely we will all agree that our criminal justice needs to function in accordance with principles of greater agility. From the beginning of proceedings until the first day of the oral trial, there is now an excessive period of time, which can sometimes be justified by the special complexity but which on many occasions does not have an objective reason. The reason is certainly not the inaction of judges and prosecutors but a number of cases that harm everyone: they harm the victims, they find no solution to their demand for justice; they harm the investigator, who also sees the uncertainty of their procedural situation widen. These factors that prolong the procedure have to do with the accumulation of causes, which give rise to macro-processes, unnecessary bureaucracy, a shortage of early resolution mechanisms and the tendency to exhaust all investigative procedures at this stage. It is therefore necessary to design a comprehensive response to the reform and not a separate analysis, as some of the amendments have proposed. The generation of complex procedures composed of different separate pieces in those colloquially known as macro-causes implies an absolutely unacceptable delay in time for both the victims and the investigated. This phenomenon, which is closely linked to the most serious crime and corruption, must be corrected in order to bring those responsible to justice within a reasonable time. Society does not want people who are part of a process to be immersed in eternal investigative processes, but to be effectively judged and, where appropriate, convicted, and that is the real fight against impunity. It is therefore a matter of establishing as a general rule that each offence is subject to a procedure and for this purpose the alleged objectives of connectivity are laid down. The measure is not rigid and, therefore, allows the prosecutor to propose and the judge to decide the final assessment and to agree on what is appropriate in the event that any accumulation is necessary. Closely linked to this measure is the limitation of the time limits of the instruction, which we also consider to be a vital measure to speed up this phase. We are basically faced with two criticisms: one, that the limitation of time limits may prevent the proper development of investigations and, two, that we do not make clear the failure to comply with the time limits and their consequences. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the six months set for simple cases and the eighteen months set for those of special complexity are not capriciously set times, they respond to a thorough study of the current reality of our courts. The average duration of the instructional phase is, according to the data of the General Council of the Judiciary, around two hundred forty-five days and this has, therefore, a clear reading: the chosen times are realistic and those times, moreover, in no case will allow the mere and direct archiving of the performances. What we are seeking, therefore, is to establish a new form of work where the time frame counts, where time is a factor to take into account, where the judge and the prosecutor have to make an effort to review the pending cases and give them the appropriate procedural impetus. It is therefore right that the prosecutor should assess the situation and request the judge to extend the time limits or to transform a simple case into a complex one. We are therefore betting on a new collaborative way of conducting the investigation based on a principle of co-responsibility between the public prosecutor and the judicial body. Alongside these measures - all of them form a logical scenario of collaboration - there are two others that are also relevant for the purposes of greater agility: one is the police preservation of attestations without known author, which normally do not materialize for the purposes of judicial control and which now account for up to 40% of the cases that reach the investigating courts without any other result than a bureaucratic paperwork that does little to the citizen and overloads the activity of judges and prosecutors. It is precisely the judges and prosecutors who have encouraged and requested this change, at the same time, logically, who have requested, through their reports, some exceptions to the rules, exceptions that have been contemplated. Thus, for example, this police custody of attestations will never be applied if the alleged crime is against life, physical integrity or freedom and sexual compensation and, in any case, the police authorities will inform about the investigations carried out at seventy-two hours if these were anything more than mere verifications. The other measure, ladies and gentlemen, is the creation of a procedure for accepting a decree or some sort of criminal monitoring procedure. It is designed for offences of a minor entity punishable by a fine or imprisonment that can be replaced by a fine in which the procedure can be expedited in a very relevant manner without thereby undermining procedural guarantees at all. The prosecutor may propose a reduced penalty, as in the case of rapid trials, up to a third. If the investigator accepts, the prosecutor's brief will become, with the control of the judge's guarantees, a conviction. It is not just a procedure for trafficking trials, ladies and gentlemen, because its scope is much broader and will allow those who have committed a minor offence and have no prior record to have access to speedy justice. Many of those who criticize this proposal, this model, and point out that it is unnecessary, were also those who in 2002 rejected a novel procedure such as the fast trial, which now resolves approximately 78 per cent of trafficking offences, more than 43 per cent of gender-based violence trials and more than 20 per cent of other procedures. This reform, which is now under way, is therefore only making progress, improving and deepening this line of speeding up justice. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that the second objective, in addition to speeding up, is the strengthening of due process and legal certainty. Spain must, of course, comply with its duties with the European Union and transpose the Community directive on legal aid which complements the adaptation of our domestic law to European law affecting detainees and suspects: the Information Directive, the Translation and Interpretation Directive and the Legal Aid Directive, as I say. There is, therefore, no lack of coordination, but quite the contrary, an overall integration of all the Community directives, because they are all being supplemented; we could say that we will have a genuine statute for the person under investigation. There are also plans, ladies and gentlemen, for future directives from the European Union. The most important of these, which, according to the Union's work schedule, is possibly adopted by the end of this year, is the presumption of innocence directive, on which the European Parliament has taken a position and reported in the past few weeks. I would therefore remind you that it would be very useful to know the state of the debates, the positions held by the various parliamentary groups in the European Parliament on matters as discussed in recent days, such as the presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial. Ladies and gentlemen, the new regulation of the legal situation of the detainee is therefore strengthened, it is more secure. These guarantees are reinforced when faced with the exception of detention or incommunicado detention, which will no longer mean the restriction of all traditionally limited rights, but only those that the judge considers proportionate to the situation of the investigated person. The new regulation puts an end to any doubt of interpretation as to the scope of such an important figure - as the lawyers have shown - as is the right to the reserved interview, which now expressly extends to the moment prior to police interrogation. There is also a terminological change in the reform, the scope of which transcends mere formalism, because it attributes a new meaning to the procedural position of the subject at each stage of the procedure. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of banishing the expression of the accused, who has acquired a much higher burden than is technically and legally his. In forensic practice, as you know, to impute is to communicate to a subject who has been denounced or is the subject of research, without any assessment of evidence of guilt. However, since in practice the belief that this is the case has been extended, with this reform we seek the greatest technical precision when referring to the subject under investigation. A subject will be called this, investigated, when suspicions that are being analyzed at the stage of investigation fall upon him, and will be called prosecuted when the investigation is concluded, when, in his case, a criminal act is indexed to him. In this second case, there is already an assessment of the facts which do not, as is evident, occur in the merely investigated case and, therefore, their treatment must reasonably be different at each stage of the process. In order to identify these new denominations, we have had the collaboration of a commission to improve the legal language, in which experts from the Spanish Royal Academy, the prosecutor's office, from different academic fields participate, who have done a magnificent advisory work to find these new denominations, investigated and prosecuted, which greatly surpass and improve the current name of imputed. Another element, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to highlight in this speech is that of the means of research used. Once again, I have to remember that we are reforming a law which originated in 1882 and which, as a great novelty in this area, referred to postal and telegraphic communications. It does not need to remember everything that is currently out of regulation in this area, from imaging devices to remote recording of data storage systems or computers, and there is, as you know, no greater legal uncertainty than that resulting from the absence of regulation. Therefore, it was pressing to bring to a normative text, to our positive law, the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. It is clear that new forms of crime require effective legislation and modern legislation to be placed on the side of the rule of law to deal with this crime, and here it is defined by a very well-established jurisprudence, a model of research that is balanced and respectful of the guarantees of the investigated, while being effective for the State Security Forces and Bodies; a model of research that responds to the principles of specialty, exceptionality, suitability, necessity and proportionality, all of which are perfectly defined, all of which are subject to judicial control, and which respects the rights to privacy, confidentiality of communications and data protection. All measures, ladies and gentlemen, should be remembered, as you know, by a reasoned order of the investigating judge and will also have a limited duration of time commensurate with the needs of the investigation. All this, I insist, without forgetting the duty of judicial motivation of each and every one of the decisions taken in this area, where clearly the measure to be taken will be based. This second objective of the reform, the strengthening of guarantees, is complemented by two improvements with important consequences for the citizens, as they generate channels to satisfy specific demands: one is the generalization of the second criminal court, which will assume that any convicted person without exception will be able to see his conviction reviewed by a collegiate court in second instance; the other is the inclusion as a cause of review of convictions having obtained a judgement from the European Court of Human Rights that may recognize the violation of rights linked to the trial. Both shortcomings, the second criminal court and the scope for the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, as you know ladies and gentlemen, were so far leading to convictions in our country and it was very necessary to resolve it. As this is difficult to criticise, we are opposed to the supposed economic inviolability of these measures. I assure you that it has been the subject of analysis, detailed study, and it has resulted in the fact that the courts concerned are generally below the modules established by the General Council of the Judiciary and therefore have sufficient capacity to assume the new workload that will, of course, occur progressively in the future and that, if necessary, will justify the establishment of new places or the creation of an ad hoc appeals room when necessary; all this is fully evaluated and identified in terms of time and workloads by the Ministry and the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has, throughout a wide range of reforms, given absolute priority to what is the third objective of this reform that we are presenting: the fight against corruption; to this end, we have promoted many measures of democratic regeneration in different areas in order to promote the exemplary and effective functioning of the institutions. Thus, in the procedural framework, the draft reform contains the new figure of confiscation, which has been partially introduced by the reform of Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code and which is now supplemented by this new reform of the Criminal Procedure Act. As you know, we are trying to promote that in crimes against property, beyond the fact that the convicted person is, of course, serving his sentence, the State is also working to recover the stolen property and placing it at the service of society, whether for the payment of compensation to the victims, if any, for the development of social programmes or for the fight against organized crime. These measures are in line with zero-tolerance against corruption, imply being able to seize all the property of the convicted person for certain serious crimes when the owner cannot justify the origin of the property; it also means enabling the legal channels for such occupation of the property to be carried out quickly, agilely and to extend even to the property that may have been made available to third parties; it also provides an opportunity to address the property of the accused even if it cannot be prosecuted for the original offence, provided that there are alleged assessments and guarantees for it in the event that the legality of the origin of the property could finally be demonstrated. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we also comply with this regulation with the obligation to transpose the Community directive on this matter into our law by October 2015. We should not be doing so badly when, at the last meeting of the working group on the transposition of this matter within the European Union, the Ministry of Justice of Spain was congratulated by the European Commission and set as an example for the rest of the countries of the Union. These measures are complemented by the reform that is being presented today by the creation of an asset recovery and management office, which will have the nature of assisting justice in the task of managing and carrying out all seized and confiscated assets. In short, the reform aims to convert the criminal's assets into an economic opportunity for society. I shall finish now, ladies and gentlemen, but not without recalling the purpose of the joint initiative which, through these two bills, the Government has brought to this House: modernising the means and modernising the ends. We must modernise the means because we cannot continue with a criminal procedure with a 19th century structure, which ignores essential aspects of research from the technological means for the purposes of parallel trials. The aims must also be modernized, because what is ultimately a question of satisfying the social demand for a more agile, transparent criminal justice that does not dilute its effect, especially in cases related to corruption over the mere course of time. It is a reflective reform, a reform that is dialogued with legal operators and designed for a more effective exercise of justice. Each of its measures and all of them as a whole respond to the main problems identified in our system, constitutes a plausible solution, in accordance with our Constitution and the rest of the legal system, and seeks a concrete and measurable objective from which we are sure all citizens and, in particular, all legal operators will benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. These two bills have been submitted up to seven amendments in their entirety. We are going to start with the Joint Group and, as always, some will defend its amendment and others will speak on a position-setting basis, but in this same block. Firstly, Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the expected reform of the criminal justice system that is embodied in these two bills that we are debating today is, from the point of view of the Galego Nationalist Block, a timid change in procedural rules far removed from the radical change that is being demanded from legal sectors. You, Minister, know that the debate in various legal forums on the need for a profound change in the criminal process is recent. However, most of the proposals made by these forums are expected, given that the draft law adopted by the Government aims to address certain policy changes, leaving aside any commitment to the expansion and modernization of material and human resources in the Administration of Justice. It is really inconceivable that the aim should be to improve the functioning of a public service when there is no economic memory to ensure its implementation and that the modernization of criminal justice, seriously affected by cuts in public services, is at zero cost. With this proposal, there will hardly be a substantial variation in the processing of criminal proceedings, especially with regard to the delay and delays suffered by them, since the simple imposition of a maximum time limit will not in itself lead to promptness in the investigation if it is not accompanied by a reinforcement of the material means of the courts and prosecutions. On the contrary, Minister, from our point of view it will result in the abrupt and incomplete completion of multiple cases, thus favouring more the party on which there are indications of crimes than the functioning of the Justice Administration. There is no progress in these projects in terms expressed by experts and judges themselves, such as the exclusive dedication to complex cases of corruption or economic crimes, the suppression of forbearances, the limits to pardons or the creation of specialized courts in certain crimes, particularly in economic crime. On the contrary, certain measures are partially accepted and their success and effectiveness will be limited or even counterproductive. In particular, the request for a reduction in the criminal investigation phase, endorsed by the majority of the judiciary and legal professionals, was associated with an increase in the provision of adequate means and not only with the establishment of a random deadline. Thus, in the opinion of the Galego Nationalist Block, it is questionable, in view of the draft laws we are debating, that the procedural agility advocated through the setting of a legal limit will be effective when what would really allow this greater speed in criminal investigation would be more specialized courts, teams of specialists and support auditors and judges exclusively to unravel the most complex cases, which is entirely outside of this criminal reform. The fight against organized corruption, as well as the complex criminality of this era, requires financial resources, personal and material means that - I insist - these bills do not guarantee. It is impossible to achieve this by patching up the current criminal procedural legislation, randomly introducing some desirable measures, but maintaining an important part of an ankylated criminal procedural corpus, with a proceelous remedies regime and a workload in the judicial bodies that is not intended to reduce with more means at its disposal to investigate criminal acts. With this approach, in the opinion of the Galego Nationalist Block - I insist - this reform, although it contemplates some positive aspect, is doomed to failure, by relegating the inescapable and inescapable changes both in the budgetary policy for the Administration of Justice and in addressing a radical reform of criminal justice. In the face of the complicated scenario of the administration of justice, particularly criminal justice, this bill amending the Criminal Procedure Act to strengthen procedural guarantees and regulate technological research measures seems disappointing to us. It is a clear missed opportunity, Minister, which will mean that your immersion in this painful situation of very limited means of carrying out your work effectively will be prolonged for a longer time, which is why we are calling for these bills to be returned. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u17	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all the laws which the People's Party has passed in the field of justice go in the same direction. In fact, they are part of the same neoliberal ideological corpus. With this bill the Government of the People's Party continues its work of cutting rights and ultimately privatizing justice, all from the most absolute legislative improvisation. The Government of the People's Party has evaded its responsibility and, instead of presenting a new criminal procedural code, unable to reach consensus, presents partial reforms of the Criminal Prosecution Act, reforms that aim to facilitate impunity for those accused of corruption. Instead of facilitating the exclusive dedication of judges in cases of corruption, you simply limit the duration of the investigation periods, all under the need to expedite the processing of criminal proceedings. Well, in our view, the real solution is not the limitation of the time limits for instruction, but what is really required is to increase the personal and material means at the disposal of justice. Instead of investing in justice, they seek, Minister, to decongest the courts and tribunals at the cost of impunity for the accused. On the other hand, we also do not share the regulation of telecommunications intervention. The Government had turned back and, unlike the draft law, it did not expand the catalogue of offences in which the Ministry of the Interior or the Secretary of State for Security could agree on the intervention of telecommunications. However, the regulation of the possibility that incommunicado detention may be agreed, constitutes a violation of the guarantees that must be provided to persons deprived of their ambulatory liberty and may also constitute a violation of their right of defence. Finally, we have many doubts about the extensive nature of some investigative measures, such as the possibility that electronic devices can be put in order to capture and record communications, even at the home of the person being investigated. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Alvarez has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Two bills are presented in this House, one on organic law and the other on ordinary law, which substantially amend the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to expedite, according to the explanatory statement, criminal justice, strengthen the procedural guarantees of the investigator and regulate certain technological research measures, adapting them to the current ones. I anticipate, Minister, that I will vote against the amendments as a whole. Firstly, because this has been my constructive attitude on all previous occasions, but secondly, because we consider that we are dealing with the amendment of rules in force since 1882, which reflects a very high legal consistency, while at the same time we are socially demanding an adaptation to the passage of time and to our circumstances, which have indeed changed, which does not imply acceptance without more than the submitted draft, to which the corresponding amendments can always be submitted, because, in my opinion, if left as they are, the drafts will not serve or will serve with difficulty to speed up justice. And if it succeeds, it is in exchange for leaving certain principles that inspire criminal proceedings of a guaranteed nature. Shorter instructions are regulated, although there may be an extension of year and a half in complex cases, but the rule, after those deadlines that in themselves break the principle of agility, leads us to an indefinite limbo with the generic: reasons that justify it, which tends to create the possibility of arbitrariness of procedural guarantees. I would also like to refer to the so-called process of acceptance of a decree, which is perhaps the most unsatisfactory measure introduced as it is, on the other hand, the most innovative, but it is related to crimes that carry only penalties for deprivation of the right to drive motor vehicles and mopeds, and these assumptions are, in my opinion, a very small fan of the number of criminal types we have in the code. On the other hand, it seems to me that the establishment of the double criminal court in article 846 is well resolved, by which it crystallizes a long claim to hinder the always difficult marriage. And I am also interested in the issues raised in the parts of the confiscation. There is no doubt that citizens have been seeking effective justice for years, where their rights are guaranteed within a reasonable period of time, but the assessment of the procedural reality shows us that it is not enough just to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, but that it is absolutely necessary, Minister, to equip the Spanish courts with the material, human and computer resources to speed up judicial proceedings. With our share of eleven judges every 100,000 inhabitants, we are far from the 19th European average. Much of the reform is determined by the regulation of telephone communications, abandoning the idea of intervening in communications without judicial authorization which, as stated in its opinion by the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council, are of dubious constitutional affiliation. [[The lady]] I'm done. In short, lights and shadows in a reform without addressing the final elaboration of a procedural law that conforms to our time and responds to a crime, that it does evolve, and a endowment of resources, as I have said before, according to the volume of instructions. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u19	Thank you, Mr. Alvarez. By the same group, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the party with the highest number of corruption defendants is the party with a sufficient majority to impose laws that cut democracy, that attack freedom of expression - you just have to remember that yesterday you suggested fines for the media - and also cut the right to protest; and with today's one they make it difficult for us to understand the investigation of corruption. If this party legislates the consequence is predictable, if you think of the great idea of changing the name of the accused, a condition in which you beat historical records - we agree -, you just have to read today's newspapers to set an example. They change 'charged' to 'investigated' and 'charged'. So, instead of resolving corruption we change his name and holy passovers, as if a semantic trick were to solve the legitimate concern that people have about the ease with which we are robbed in this country and the difficulty with which we are judged. That is the problem to be solved, one of the forgotten ones of this reform: that the corrupt have many more means than prosecutors and judges. If those who investigate do not even have the same means as those who commit the corrupt, they will always have the advantage. On the necessary improvement of technical means, increase of personnel, evidentiary means there is nothing at all. The aim is to speed up education but without improving the means. How do you make it faster then? At the expense of the quality of the work of the justice system and thus promoting impunity. The aim of the regulation, as is perfectly read, is for the instructions to lapse, obliging the submission three days before the expiry of the deadline for an extension request. They have created an instrument of impunity for corruption, and that is the consequence of a party that sometimes looks like the slut who cares for chickens. What would be desirable would be a lesser concern for the times and greater for the means, which would certainly, if they were more, better and more modern, shorten instruction. In addition, some instructions, if they had not counted on the character of the People's Party trying to lengthen the process and boycott it, would also have lasted less. Is it necessary to remind you that the People's Party had to be expelled from the Gürtel plot and that Judge Ruz cites a dozen moments in which representatives of the PP in the case - supposedly accusers - act in favour of defendants such as former treasurer Luis Bárcenas, his wife or former national deputy Jesús Merino? I'm done. We all agree on the need for a criminal procedural law to speed up the criminal process, but this reform is clearly not aspired to, nor will it achieve, without budget increases, without support and improvement measures, because it is only an aesthetic reform, in our view.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u21	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u22	Therefore, since Compromís-Equo we have announced our vote in favour of the refund amendments. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u23	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Urbina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a new chapter on the cuts in fundamental freedoms and rights carried out by the Government of Spain, this time in the context of the reform, among other things, of the Criminal Procedure Act. Many things could be said about these reforms - many have already been anticipated by the Members who have spoken before me - but since Amaiur we want to highlight two of them because we consider them to be of particular gravity. The first is the cutback in fundamental rights, such as the inviolability of the home or the secrecy of communications. The second is one that we have already brought to this House on numerous occasions and that we believe it is unwarranted that it has not been changed. I'm talking about keeping the detention regime incommunicado. With regard to the first, it is certainly frightening that the police are given the facilities to interfere in people's private lives, whether by listening to and seeing what is happening within the homes of the persons investigated, or by entering their communications. We understand that this is unacceptable; this has no justification. [[e-mail or any other method]] It is really making it easier for the police to interfere in something that is sacred to people, their privacy. Wear it as you please, but it is really going to be possible for the police to hear at people's homes anything they want and don't want anyone they think is appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an obvious police state that is pure and hard, without limit. Some of you will say: No, no, it has limits: judicial control. Now, what happens is that here it rains on wet; and those who unfortunately have experience in certain courts, the National Court - which, at the end of the day, will be the one to apply most of the time this type of measure for the crimes to which they are mainly intended -, we already know, with honourable exceptions, of the legal rigour in adopting such resolutions that affect fundamental principles - read entries and records; listening; closing newspapers, radio stations; arresting political activists; etc. - Everyone knows that at the National Court the Ministry of the Interior commands, and sends a lot. So, it's been a long time since I've been hanging this out of judicial independence. We recently had a significant episode about this - which we also brought to the House - when Supreme Court judges denounced pressure from the government to interpret certain European rules in a certain sense, as finally happened. Therefore, this issue of judicial independence has long been far removed in the Spanish State. When it comes to judicial control, let us put it not in doubt, but find that this, on most occasions, does not happen. Therefore, white letter in the police performance, or what is the same The Truman show directed by Mr Fernández Díaz. He was talking about a second issue, incommunicado detention. We will have the option of delving into this subject in the next steps of this reform. All the Governments of Spain have unjustifiably kept this incommunicado detention. From Europe, from the United Nations - yesterday it was known - they have again been asked to stop - not to change it, to cancel it - to that incommunicado detention, to repeal that incommunicado detention. He spoke of two significant aspects of the quality of democracy in the Spanish State. Gentlemen, freedom cut in the name of freedom. That is what you are proposing, so from Amaiur we will vote in favour of the amendments to this reform as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u25	Thank you, Mr. Urbina. We moved on to the Plural Left Group. Mr Llamazares has the floor to table his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u26	Thank you, Madam President. The more pomp and circumstance the Government uses to present its legislative initiatives, the less content these reform initiatives have. The minister himself has already said that it is a reform. Of course, it is not a new law that has to do with the criminal process of the 21st century; it is a reform of the 19th century law. What is worse, is not even a reformulation; we are faced with a retouching of that law that the minister himself clearly considers obsolete. He said that prosopopeya is associated with the lack of content of the laws, but also the lack of content of the legislative initiatives of the Government runs in parallel with the legislative avalanche. This initiative is part of an avalanche of thirty laws that await us by the end of the legislature, and it should be said that those who cover a great deal are not too tight, and in this case we are faced with symbolic government legislation in a long electoral campaign. Let's go to the initiative that seeks to reform the criminal procedure, and in which none of that happens. To all this, if there were a cost of the legislative procedure the government would really be ruining. In the legislative procedure of the Act on the voluntary termination of pregnancy - reports, studies, project - nothing at all. With regard to the reform of criminal procedure, we are faced with a similar situation. The parliamentary groups in this House had the dubious honour of having a meal with the former minister - I say dubious honour because it was the only one, and we would have liked to have a more intense and perhaps less playful relationship - in which he presented us with sober reports precisely on the modification of the criminal procedure; of them it was never again known. This change has nothing to do with what was proposed to us in those reports, which I imagine will have cost something to the public purse and will have meant something to the intelligence of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. The fundamental thing, that was to change the instruction so that whoever investigated was the prosecutor instead of the judge and turn the judge into a judge of guarantees - the fundamental thing was that, that is to adapt the Spanish criminal procedure to the criminal procedure of the twenty-first century and of our environment - nothing. Let us go to the partial - the minister thinks it is a partial reform and I say it is a retouching - which is to speed up the operation of the judicial procedure and, on the other hand, to increase the guarantees. We're back to the same thing as before. It is the ministry of peace when it really is of war, that of love when it is of conflict. In this case neither agility nor guarantees, neither of the two are produced as a result of the Government's initiative; on the contrary, there is more bureaucracy and less guarantees in criminal proceedings, as proposed by the Government. That is the overall view of my parliamentary group on this initiative. I would like to start by talking about the place that we Members of the Congress of Deputies - I will cease to be in the next few days, and I am sorry because I have had a good experience in this House - and what role we have for Members in this matter. I already think that not even stone guests, we feel mocked directly. When you speak of consensus, I wonder who Mr Senso is with you - with Senso - because there has been no political agreement: neither with the legal operators, nor with the parliamentary groups, but - which is worse - nor with you yourselves. Recently the committees and papers of the Congress of Deputies are a debate between yourselves or, rather, between your parliamentarians and the telephone from which the Ministry of Justice gives contradictory instructions. [[Applauds]] This is the reality, a continuing legal chasm that puts the Congress of Deputies at the feet of the horses continuously. In submission and in committee the Government makes dozens of amendments, sometimes hundreds, incorporate them into the text, which the Government itself does not know, and the parliamentary groups are as if they were looking at the line, ladies and gentlemen. This procedure, which has been installed in the operation of the Chamber, is unacceptable; in particular, this is the last ministry in which it should be done, since it should be the Ministry of Legal Security. For the Ministry of Legal Insecurity is the Ministry of Justice of the Government of the People's Party, which turns us parliamentarians not into stone guests but stone mockers. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the position of my group, which leads to the introduction of this amendment in its entirety, because we do not see a substantial change in criminal procedure, although it seems to us essential and necessary to update the functioning of justice, because the measures proposed to us are retouching, partial, in many cases unrelated and in others clearly regressive. Let's go to them. Firstly, what is being done to replace - in my opinion in a negative way - the criminal procedure in which it should be the prosecutor who investigates it. The Government considers itself powerless to carry out this change I believe for two reasons: firstly, because the Government is not a reformist government - it is not true, as you put it - and secondly, because the Government fears something that comes along with the instruction of the prosecutor: the demand of citizens and parliamentary groups that the prosecutor's office should be autonomous with respect to the Government. Of course, because they don't want to, the prosecutor is kept not as an instructor but as an accuser. The Government introduces a novel element, making the prosecutor - with the excuse of expediting the procedure - a sort of manager who tells the judge if it is passed or short in the time of the investigation. It is unacceptable, it is an unacceptable interference with the sovereignty and independence of the judiciary. This is another of the Government's passions. The Government has a fundamental passion that is that of power, so it is intruded as far as it can into the independence and autonomy of both the judiciary and the prosecution. He has another passion, which is that of the market, so every time he can turn a public service into a market service or a market justice, in which the notaries, the registrars, the prosecutors, all the operators who are in the courts and who serve the government for this corporate and privatization process, which - I repeat - is another of his passions. One of the fundamentals that has to do with his problems is the interference in the independence of the judiciary and the conversion of the prosecutor not as an instructor but as manager of the judges' agenda - remember the debate that took place in this Chamber on the judicial secretaries - with the euphemism of the speeding up of procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal does not speed up procedures; it does not speed them up to one year or eighteen months, it is not true. That's not the problem. The minister says the problem is the macro-causes. No, it is that of the complexity of the causes and the lack of resources, which are not solved by a bureaucratic intervention of the prosecution. It's obvious that it's not solved like this. We will therefore continue to have the same problems of delay in the causes that the Government intends to solve. The Government, in this dialectic, which I mentioned earlier, of retouching rather than reforming, does the same with regard to ethics. The country has a serious problem of civil ethics with regard to corruption. The Government, far from taking firm measures against corruption - confiscation seems to be the great measure of this anti-corruption law - resorts to aesthetics. Let's go from ethics to aesthetics. The accused is investigated and, in an already advanced procedure, prosecuted. Do you really think that changes some depth? Would it not have been much better, as I told you in the first part of my speech, to really address a reform of the criminal procedure and to assign the prosecutor's office the role of investigation and the judge the role of guarantees? No, sir, we don't do the fundamentals. We are dedicated to retouching the law and in some cases only to euphemisms, because it is an euphemism to replace accused by investigated. In short, there will be not hundreds of defendants but hundreds of investigators, and that will not be possible to avoid you, as well as that is not in the media. Plutarch already said that defeats do not change by killing the messenger; well, you have decided to kill the messenger to hide his defeat in ethical matters. They are not going to get it, ethical defeat is served; for a lot of bludgeon to the citizens and for a lot of what they do with the messenger they are not going to get the citizens to consider that this has not happened or to forgive those attitudes, in any case, reprehensible. The issue of speeding up justice has therefore already been assessed. On the lack of guarantees and what you call increased judicial guarantees, Your Honor, we do not see it. Look, there would also be a red line here to say whether you take a leap in guarantees or stay where you exist today, rather precarious. There's the prisoners' incommunicado. The incommunicado prison is the one that defines whether you follow the United Nations guidelines, the European jurisprudence, which asks you to repeal the incommunicado prison, or whether you continue with the incommunicado prison. No, the incommunicado prison continues as part of an emergency legislation that you do not want to leave out. It has much to do with the law of gags, the reform of the Penal Code and its - in quotes - anti-terrorist legislation. [[Applauds]] They maintain this measure of incommunicado detention even though it is nuanced, it is true; but they do not obey the instruction, the indications they make in other directives, which they transpose in second instance and in others. This law does not obey the instructions of the United Nations or European jurisprudence, which raise the need to repeal this type of incommunicado detention. You say that they mutter - well, some things for good and some things for bad - that incommunicado prison. There will be no communication - that is why it is called incommunicado prison, that is why it is kept -; there will be no legal aid and it will be kept for an unacceptable period of time, in our opinion. That is to say, everything that we are accused of and that they say that it is the pre-sale of ill-treatment, the pre-sale of impunity sometimes in relation to ill-treatment and torture, unfortunately, is going to be maintained; there will also be a dark cloud about the Government and Spanish policy - I think in a totally unjust way - for the preservation of this model, which, in our view, undermines the judicial procedure and also the guarantee in prisons for those who are to be prosecuted or accused - I do not know very well. These are the broad-based assessments of my parliamentary group. I would like to conclude by referring, as I said earlier, to the procedure, not to the judicial but to the parliamentary one. I ask you, Minister, not to subject us to this ridiculous. We do not submit ourselves to this ridicule to the Members who have tabled amendments to try to improve the legal texts and who see with surprise that the procedures of presentation and the Commission are only to heal the problems of their projects, to incorporate the self-amendments. It does not subject us parliamentarians to ridicule, because it is ultimately also subjecting the laws to legal uncertainty and ridicule. This law will no longer be the law of criminal prosecution of the twenty-first century, it will not be. It will be the retouching of the 19th century. Minister, let it not be a law of which we must be ashamed so much for its content, for neither speed up nor give more guarantees, nor for its form, because in some way it means a new reason for legal uncertainty in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u27	Thank you, Mr. Llamazares. I believe that you have said in your speech that it may be your last in this House. I want to tell you that the whole House will miss you. You have been a great parliamentarian. [[Applauds]] For the Socialist Group, to present its amendment, Mr De la Rocha.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, I would also like to start my speech with a firm complaint about the way in which the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group are imposing legislation on this House; a way in which legislation is a great fraud of law, a mockery of Parliament; a way in which legislation is a violation of the rights of parliamentarians to be able to amend and participate in the bills that in this very important matter - all are important, but more important, those that affect justice, the security of the Spaniards - have those that you bring us. Many of the bills - most of them - that the Government is presenting in Congress in this area are radically changed throughout the process of the Government itself through the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group, preventing, as has been said, the other groups from being able to amend them, to try to improve them, to present our opinion on what are the real legislative texts of the Government. The draft law on voluntary jurisdiction was adopted by the Commission yesterday. The People's Parliamentary Group has tabled two hundred amendments; two hundred, ladies and gentlemen! Previously, in the Criminal Code, one hundred and eighty amendments introduced the People's Parliamentary Group, i.e. the Government; one draft is changed by another. As you do not agree, because you have joined more recently, I withdraw the previous projects and present new ones. Let's not go with this acceleration and improvisation that generates legal uncertainty. Yesterday or the day before yesterday there was a situation that was partly worrisome because of this acceleration and improvisation. One thing, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, is an absolute majority and another is fraud in Parliament. I ask you too, I demand you to change these forms. [[Applauds]] Their legitimate majority allows them to impose their criteria, but with guarantees for parliamentary functioning. I turn now to the subject that brings us to debate, a reform of the Criminal Procedure Act in two bills, one on the organic side in matters relating to fundamental rights and guarantees, and another on the processing and alleged speeding up of proceedings. The first thing I have to say, Minister, is that these bills are the expression of a great failure, another such as that of the Civil Registry. A further breach of one commitment, which was the presentation of a comprehensive reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act which was pompously announced by the Government and former Minister Gallardón. Let us remember - you have remembered - that the current Law is of 1882, and then in its explanatory statement that great liberal jurist who was Alonso Martínez already said: We have - then - succeeded in introducing the accusatory principle into the plenary; we have not been able to reach more. And he pointed out: There will be at some point another government that will do it, that will change the model of instruction. During these years of democracy, the principle of accusatory law has been introduced into the juvenile procedure, the jury procedure, the precautionary measures of the proceedings, and the last socialist Government has adopted a preliminary draft law on the comprehensive reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, a draft prepared by a very solvent commission of experts, which was even informed by some courts. And you, with the pride derived from the absolute majority, and from a kind of legal adanism - here it all starts from scratch - despised that preliminary draft and preferred to commission a new project to another committee of experts; in principle because you were against the investigation by the prosecutor, and announced it over the years, were always against the investigation by the prosecutor, in order to come to the end to the same conclusion: indeed you have to introduce an investigation system in which the prosecutor leads it, with a judge of guarantees, but no longer to deal with this legislature. And they bring us a very partial reform, to a large extent improvised, and with contradictions; with contradictions because some of its contents have taken them out of that draft of the expert commission, and others of measures that have been adopted and with elements that cross between them contradictoryly. I begin with the draft organic law that regulates a set of matters that affect the fundamental rights of the suspect, the detainee, and his or her guarantees. Some of its provisions relating to the right of defence and others to interference with the privacy and communications to which I shall refer later, but as they are designed, may affect in their application the right to a trial with all guarantees. These are some of those measures and some of their unacceptable exceptions from that broader attempt of the preliminary draft law that the Minister of the Interior could pinch the telephones of any citizen without judicial authorization, expression of a police conception, of an authoritarian conception in which the balance between freedom and security is often, too often, in favor of the police and against the guarantees of the process, in the same line of the Law on Citizen Security, of the reform of the Criminal Code, and it seems, Minister - I say it with some surprise - that in the line that you have adhered to in the last 24 hours with this request for a sanction to the media that publish judicial information, in an attempt - it is not known if conscious or unconscious - to limit freedom of information, perhaps to cover some of the very serious problems of corruption that the government party has. I begin with the right to defence, the right to legal aid. It said a moment ago that you improvise, that you modify laws in a completely accelerated way, and here we have a first and clear example of what I have just said. Two important sections of the Criminal Procedure Act are amended, section 118 and section 520, which regulate the right to legal aid. Look, ladies and gentlemen, these two articles have just been amended by a law which was just published yesterday, and which has not yet entered into force, the law amending the Criminal Procedure Act in matters relating to interpreters and jurors, and it is now said that a new directive of 2013 must be transposed. Your Honor, that directive of 2013 was already known when the previous amendment was made, and already then my group told you here in the House: we must transpose that directive; we are going to incorporate it. And you are re-amending in this bill, in this new reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, an article that you have just amended and that has not yet entered into force. Moreover, this directive guarantees the right of the accused or the detainee to have an interview with his or her lawyer - you mentioned - even before his or her judicial interrogation, something that is novel in our police and judicial system, something that increases the guarantees of the detainee. However, you - and you have not mentioned this in your speech - make general exceptions. The police can prevent the detainee from having a prior interview with his lawyer when there is an urgent need, which the police themselves decide, and not only in cases of terrorism or in cases of crimes carried out by armed gangs, but also in any kind of crime, even in the mild, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is an unacceptable limitation of that fundamental right, which must be applied also by interpreting the European directive, and which will in practice mean the ineffectiveness of the provision of the right to such a prior interview. The draft organic law also includes a very broad set of regulations on interference with the privacy of the person investigated in criminal proceedings, regulations that were not incorporated into our legal system, except in some very narrow facets, which the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and some international human rights courts had already told us that we needed to regulate in a better way. Not only the written and telegraphic correspondence, not only telephone and telematic communications, but some very unique measures: for example, recording oral communications by means of electronic devices, including the home, puncture in the night table, puncture in the living room of a house for a very long time; or the use of electronic devices for capturing images or for tracking and locating a suspect; or the recording of computers, the mass storage of privacy information of each one, something that in this society of communication and computer management we all have on our computer; even beyond that, the remote recording of computer equipment through the use of Trojans. It was true that it was necessary to introduce this regulation, which was as I said earlier a requirement of jurisprudence, which was applying the interpretation that the Supreme and Constitutional Courts had been fine-tuning in the absence of legal regulation. But since this is a direct way of affecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, regulation requires caution, measure, prudence and proportionality, Minister. Police interference is effectively regulated, on a general basis, with judicial authorization, but it is done with some elements that are manifestly inadequate and even clearly disproportionate to what are interferences in communications and personal privacy. Proportionality in criminal matters has constitutional value, in terms of necessity, suitability and, above all, minimal impact, because the public authorities have an obligation to guarantee the full exercise of the right to freedom of communication and privacy. What are those limitations that you introduce and that are clearly disproportionate in our view? The first, the duration. It is envisaged that for some of these exceptional measures the duration will be three months, extendable up to two years; up to two years of follow-up, up to two years of listening, up to two years of capturing images, which, on the other hand, Minister, does not relate to the desired duration to speed up the investigation process. You say, in the other law - it is true that they are two different laws - and you have said it from the rostrum: we must expedite the proceedings, the proceedings must not last more than six months extendable or eighteen months in complex cases. But the intrusion by the police, the application of these measures, can last up to two years, and it is probably that they derive from different texts, which you have included in an improvised and accelerated way. But even more serious is the lack of proportion of these measures, some - I repeat - as intense interference in privacy as it may be to put a telephone puncture in the night table or in the living room of the home of a family or person, which can be applied to a very large number of crimes, not only to serious crimes, as the European Court of Human Rights has been saying. It is not compatible with the principle of proportionality of these measures to allow interference of this gravity for offences punishable by up to three years'imprisonment; there is a very important part of minor offences in our Code which the Criminal Code itself calls less serious and which have penalties between six months and three years'imprisonment. It is serious crimes in our legal system that have penalties of more than five years, and you introduce these measures for crimes that may be up to three years old, I repeat, with such an intense intrusion as direct listening in a home that may even affect the family and uninvestigated third parties. The same is true in cases where, for reasons of urgency, the police may, without judicial authorization, proceed to the placement of devices or technical means of monitoring or capturing images, or to the examination of data contained in a computer which the police may interpret, which, on the grounds of urgency, they may read, thus entering into the private life of a person without judicial authorization, and for any offence, even if it is not a serious, less serious offence, and with further time limits, and however broad according to the police themselves. Minister, for measures less intense than these, anyone who knows a little about this matter and who has read or been documented in books, treaties and articles, knows that in 2004 the German Constitutional Court, in a famous judgment of 30 March 2004, declared the unconstitutionality, according to the German canon of constitutionality, of a law allowing direct listening inside the home, because of the disproportionate and intense interference in the privacy of family life for crimes that are not serious or very serious. We are also concerned and concerned about the regulation of random findings, which is enormously open, even with judicial authorization a posteriori, which allows as regulated in our opinion general and inquisitorial inquiries that can then be translated into the opening of criminal proceedings. I shall now refer to the draft ordinary law and its flagship measure for the acceleration of justice: the reduction of the maximum period of instruction to six months or to eighteen for cases that are declared complex. Minister, this measure is simply a toast to the sun, it is a propaganda measure, because you yourself know that it will be completely ineffective, since the two bills say - you have repeated it from the rostrum - expressly that neither of the measures will involve more material or personal means. You have recognized here something that does not come out of the project, and that is that the cases are extended not by the inaction of judges and judges; indeed it is not that the judges want the cases to be extended and lasting unlimitedly, the problem is that the cases are complex and do not have internal material or personal means in the judicial office, and external of professionals, to carry them forward. And if there is no more means to claim that causes end simply because the law says so, it is an ineffective measure, but not only ineffective, but it is a measure that can be reckless. The fight against corruption requires increased endowments of personal and material means, of more professionals who know how to read the accounts of groups of companies, who know how to interpret the modifications and changes between current accounts, who know how to investigate in the corporate networks, that is necessary and fundamental, not simply to say that, after a certain period, the cause ends. It is true that limited extensions are possible only at the request of the prosecutor, but what happens if the deadlines pass? What happens if that instance expires, which is the time limit or its extension? Two things can happen: one, that the investigation is completed, but that it is terminated hastily or without effective completion, that certain investigative proceedings cannot be carried out - the project says - or that the deadlines are not met, and in both cases, with a serious risk that many criminals will remain in impunity. And according to the logic of his measure, it is not understood that the request for an extension to the Prosecutor's Office is only recognized, and not to the investigator himself or to the individual prosecution, the injured person. It seems as if, Minister, the practical reality of the courts, even the prosecutors, is unknown. In many cases, in most cases prosecutors do not know, they do not know the existence of a cause until a long time ago simply because they do not transfer them, and they do not even know what the deadlines are for the development of that cause. And if they are only the only ones who can request the extension of the perverse effects and consequences probably unwanted, I do not want to impute a reckless objective to yourself, but the effects of the recklessness of the measure will be very serious. This measure, as it is proposed, is, in my opinion, an absolute waste. In the same vein, there are other changes that you make to speed up proceedings and reduce the workload of the courts, all of which are deficient because of their speed of formulation. For example, the new regulation of connectivity. We agree that it is necessary to look for ways in which these very complex causes, these macro-causes can be broken and divided. The Supreme Court has pointed this out in recent court cases, the prosecution is already moving in that direction at certain times, but it is not understood that it is only the prosecutor who can call for such division or non-unification of the investigation of several crimes in the same case, and not the investigating judge also ex officio, or not the prosecution, or not certain defendants who also want their part, piece or section to be seen on the one hand. All this power that you give to the prosecutor, Minister, corresponds to a different model of instruction, corresponds to the model of instruction that we must implement in our country, an instruction in which the axis of the investigation is carried by the prosecutor, but with the model of instruction in which the judge is the driving force behind the case, the driving force of the investigation, deprives the judge of the power to make such decisions, or deprives him of his own particular accusation, the injured person, is undoubtedly a serious mistake. The same could be said of the measure relating to attestations without known author. It is certainly reasonable to avoid the collapse of the courts, to prevent lots of proceedings from going in. The person who goes down the street and has been pulled into his bag - who has hit him has run out - goes to the police, denounces him, and it is not possible to know who is the person who has done it. There are many complaints that are made simply to cover before the insurance company that one has filed a complaint. But you make regulation without judicial guarantees. You say it can be opened by judges or prosecutors. If there's no way! It is a unilateral decision of the police, without there being any way that judges or prosecutors can have minimal, albeit global, control over what cases without known perpetrator! It seems, as it is regulated, that what is being pursued is to reduce the statistics on the workload of the courts. Minister, you say that the process by accepting decree, the monitoring process - I accelerate already because I spend time - improves. In forensic practice and in judicial practice, those of us who are lawyers and have been walking the courts for decades know that there are two ways, two techniques that are clearly better than this. One is the quick trial, and the other is the forensic practice of the compliances that are negotiated between the prosecutor and the lawyers. You do here a procedure that could be a sort of summary of all this, but with a rigidity that only the prosecutor's decree, the prosecutor's proposal is unnegotiable and immatizable. Give him more flexibility. Do not do that absolute power of the prosecutor from whom you repress all your reforms when we have not changed the model of investigation, and therefore there is no judge of guarantees who will neutralize or at least guarantee fairness and balance in the process. Two last things and I'm done, Madam President. We share the need for the generalization of the second criminal court, the appeal against judgements handed down in court by the provincial courts or the National Court, which will be brought before the civil and criminal chambers of the higher courts of justice. This is certainly a necessity of our system, which has cost us as a country complaints to international agencies for the absence of such a second criminal court. But they make the proposal without providing more material and above all personal means, and they do not even include the prosecution. It is true that the memorandum annexed to the draft law contains a table with the number of proceedings that have been followed in previous years by the Civil and Criminal Chambers of the higher courts of justice, but when one analyzes the data of that memoir sees that at least three autonomous communities, three higher courts, that of Madrid, that of Andalusia and that of Catalonia, will have an overflow of appeals. You do not already moderate an analysis, but yes - I dare not say ridiculous - absolutely minimalist. The appeal is universal, and lawyers are, of course, going to bring appeals with much more generalization than cassation appeals. There's going to be a lot more workload, and assigning appeals to the Civil and Criminal Chambers...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u29	Mr. De la Rocha.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u30	I'm done, Madam President. Assigning appeals to the Civil and Criminal Chambers, in many cases with no more means and no more prosecutors to take charge of them, will lead to ineffectiveness or lengthening of the proceedings. The last, very synthetic point I want to comment on is that of the name change that arises: accused of being investigated or prosecuted, depending on the time of the investigation, to allude with the term investigated, as you have rightly pointed out, to the persons to whom an investigation is opened without attribution of punishable conduct. Both the preliminary draft Criminal Procedure Act, which was adopted by the former socialist government, the last, and the draft Criminal Procedure Code, which the committee of experts that you constituted, proposed a change of name, a search for new figures based on a change of model of instruction, but in both cases in the framework of a comprehensive reform of the criminal process, not through a timely reform, such a simple reform, so direct, that for the moment it responds only to criteria of opportunism of the Government of the People's Party in the face of the avalanche of accusations of corruption by which it is shaken. My group has tabled two amendments in their entirety which call for the return of these two bills to the Government. One, because more than strengthening procedural guarantees comes to impose a regulation that responds, in some important facets, to an authoritarian model and violates those guarantees. And another, because more than speeding up justice promotes improvised and deficient measures that can lead to impunity for many criminals, and a new blockade of the courts of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u31	Thank you, Mr. De la Rocha. Mr Esteban has the floor, first of all, for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with some of the previous speakers that I do not think it is appropriate and of course you are not doing parliamentaryism any favors in the dynamics of laws by funnel to which the majority group is subjecting us. They have set a timetable and I do not know what they are thinking for the next legislature, they are probably clear that they are not in the Government, and they are certainly not going to have an absolute majority, and they are determined to make a unilateral reform of laws that my group believes should have a broad consensus. It is also an express reform of laws that should require a time of rest and maturation to proceed with their modification. I think they're wrong, I think it's a mistake, I think they're hurting parliamentarianism. They are tentatively modifying so that many things will then have to be corrected again. And then there is that feeling - which I think we all have - that the government is not sure what it is presenting. Otherwise, it cannot be understood that, as in the draft law on voluntary jurisdiction, there are more than two hundred amendments tabled by the group supporting the Government, which, as we know, the mechanisms have not been original to the People's Parliamentary Group, and overlap with the will of the Government, but are amendments, corrections drafted by the Government which pass them to the People's Party, so that they can be imposed on us by absolute majority on the rest of the parliamentarians, but without allowing us to debate them, because it is not about that text that we have tabled the amendments, but about another very different one. It is not good for parliamentarianism, it is not a constructive attitude, and it does not seek, it cannot seek consensus. In that sense I fully agree with the content - of course in the impeccable forms as always - of the speech made by Mr Llamazares, to which I would like to specifically mention, because he has once again made it clear that it is the parliamentary oratory in the Chamber, and in the content he has nailed it. We absolutely agree with what he was saying. To sum up - because I have less time - as regards the draft organic law which they have submitted amending the Criminal Procedure Act, the main objective should have been to transpose into national law Directive 48/2013 of the European Union, and they fail to do so. It is more deliberately sought that there be no transposition into the terms of it. In the end, what they are doing is prolonging the amendments they made to the Criminal Code, now keeping in their own terms the provisions of article 527 of the Criminal Procedure Act with regard to anti-terrorist legislation. We did not agree with that amendment of the Penal Code, but it is that they have also missed an excellent, excellent opportunity to standardise the Spanish legal system in order to remove its exceptional character, because here we continue to maintain the periods of incommunicado detention of five days, the need to go to lawyers ex officio, the impossibility of communicating with third parties, that period of seventy-two hours which in the Constitution itself was exceptional, and which has become commonplace, and which we have to take as normal; all this does not agree with what the European directive, which establishes the right to freely appoint a lawyer, to request free legal assistance, in fact not to give a statement if you do not wish to do so, etc. All the rights enshrined in the directive are without prejudice to the provisions of article 527 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and as drafted is the vest to the amendment of the Anti-Terrorism Act, confirming what was already exceptional in the anti-terrorism legislation, even before, in the old Penal Code. We can't agree. In addition, the Directive provides that communications between the investigated person and his lawyer shall be confidential. That is also not the case in Spanish anti-terrorist legislation. The second part of this organic bill is supposed to incorporate the most modern technologies into judicial evidence and research methods. The problem is that this has been sought, but, in our view, it has not been sufficiently thought through to put limits on these new technologies as well. It is good that they are incorporated, obviously not in the year 1880, at the end of the 19th century, but of course these technologies can be very invasive of personal privacy and will have to put a limit on them. And those limits are not well defined and for us they are too scarce when, for example, a microphone is allowed to be placed to record private conversations anywhere from the alleged crime to three years in prison. It seems to us to be a minimal measure and one that is not in keeping with the gravity of the intrusion into the intimate sphere. Moreover, not only that placement of devices or technical means, but the examination of data contained in a device can be carried out by the police without the need for judicial authorization, with an argument that seems to us to be lax, that a legitimate constitutional interest on the part of the police is appreciated. I would not feel very calm if it were Mr Fernández who had to measure the legitimate constitutional interest in the acts that I might be carrying out, it would not be very calm. I know that at 24 hours you have to communicate to the judge, but by then my laptop has already intervened or a microphone has already been placed anywhere in my house. By whom? On the part of the police. Without judicial authorization? Without judicial authorization. The intervention of the communications is extendable to two years, Minister, and yet you cut the instruction. They say the instruction usually lasts six months. By the way, at this point I have to comment - although it corresponds to another law, to 138 - that you say - you have said in your speech - that the current average of an instructional procedure is 245 days but they reduce it to six months, which is not 245 days but 182. There are two months of difference between the average and what they propose. What happens, that the judges, that the judicial secretaries do not work enough and can be reduced in this way, simply, without the need for an increase in the judicial plant? Above all, given that the guarantees and rights of the defendant are very much played out during the period of investigation and the judicial plant in Spain is one of the lowest at European level proportionally. What happens here, because the law says so, are they going to be able to reduce the deadlines without that affecting the guarantees? It doesn't seem very clear to us. [[The Lord]] As far as organic law was concerned, communications interventions could be extended to two years and, however, instruction would be six months or, at the very least, eighteen months. There seems to be a striking gap there that should not be such. With regard to Law 138, they tried to avoid such macro-causes. It is true that at times macroprocesses have been generated and that this has led to the prolongation of their prosecution over time, but to see if the remedy will be worse than the disease. Because if you want to open a specific case for each crime, the multiplication of matters that judges will have to attend to in the criminal court will be exponential. Moreover, it can contribute to citizens not being able to see as a whole the great plots of corruption that they are characterizing in recent years and times, because in the relationship that this bill makes of related crimes to be prosecuted together, it forgets to locate these great plots of corruption. Frankly, sometimes it is much more positive, for the purposes of justice, to see the picture as a whole than not to see specific cause for specific cause. On the other hand, the elimination of connectivity sometimes produces unwanted effects, for example, the impossibility of recasting penalties and, therefore, the extension of their duration, something clearly appropriate in a State with the highest criminal pay system in Europe, even more so after the last reforms to which the majority party pushed us in this House. I have already referred to the deadlines for the practice of investigative proceedings, which seem striking, even more so when the minister himself has stated that the current average is 245 days and that, of course, as is clear from the explanatory statement, neither the means nor the judicial plant will be increased at all. Another of the important points, another of the star points - and with this I conclude - is the 803.bis, which could be called criminal monitoring, establishing a process by acceptance of decree. The truth is that for us, at the very least, this partial judicialization of criminal proceedings, in which certain matters that are not in its constitutional dimension are transferred to the prosecutor's office, is questionable. Its function should, of course, be to urge the action of the courts, but to set out the terms of a sentence - which I already know must be accepted by the accused and, if not, the judge will enter into his or her proceedings - and to give powers to the prosecutor's office that are not covered by the constitutional text, it may seem exorbitant and it does not seem appropriate that he or she should be able to resolve certain matters covered by the effective judicial guardianship enshrined in article 24 of the Constitution. However, as other spokespersons have said, the occasion has been wasted - perhaps because the ministry has not dared to enter into a deeper amendment of the law, which would have required more time - to transform the investigation process into a process more in line with that of other European countries and our sphere, so that the prosecutor's office could have been given powers that, in our view, would have reduced the time limit for prosecution and sentencing without the constitutional guarantees of the defendants being damaged. Minister, therefore, we cannot support these reforms that you are proposing, and in particular the organic law that you have submitted to us. With this I finish my very tight time, Mr President, zero seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u33	I thank you very much, Mr Esteban, and I think you are grateful to all Members. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u34	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, if this were the British Parliament, if in this frustrated reform of the Rules of Procedure which we have witnessed some of the proposals that we had, among others, my group, you would have the obligation at this time, and I would have the right, to ask questions on topical issues and you would have to answer questions on topical issues which have to do with your own intervention. So, although it is not the British Parliament and taking advantage of your presence, I would like to ask you directly some questions that we registered this morning for your written answer. You said yesterday that as a mechanism to avoid judicial leaks during the investigation and investigation, there would be two possibilities: sanctioning the information officer or punishing the medium that publishes this information; a measure that, in principle, you said - in quotes - that the Government does not intend to carry out but that could be discussed. I would like to ask you, on behalf of my group: firstly, can you assure the Government, you, that you do not intend to punish the media for disclosing information from judicial instructions without any credible evidence that they violated the law when they were published? Even, do you want to reflect on alleged fines or sanctions to media outlets that have published non-criminal issues that do not violate the law when they are published? Because you also talked about doing that reflection. Are you thinking about that? Second, have you valued the ministry, you, the minister, the conflict between your proposal and article 20 of the Constitution? Thirdly, do you consider, Minister, that allocating resources to punishing the media, rather than prosecuting and investigating cases of corruption, is more beneficial to justice? These questions and an immediate answer would have occurred in this House if this were the British Parliament, but of course, if this were the British Parliament none of my fellow Members of Parliament would have had to recriminate their conduct to their ministry when it came to dealing with the laws, because you would not have dared from the government, and particularly from their ministry, to practice anti-parliamentarianism, which is what you have practiced in all the laws that have come from the Ministry of Justice throughout the legislature. You have exercised absolute contempt for Parliament and its rules; for your rules of law-making and control of the Executive. Not only have they despised the parliamentary opposition groups, but they have despised their own parliamentary group. Those of us who are in the papers and in the Commission have seen how as the parliamentarians of their group tried to reach agreements, to put forward amendments and to achieve certain compromise positions with the rest of the parliamentary groups, last-minute e-mails came to them with an opposite position from the government itself. They have despised the work and work of their own parliamentarians, who have gone through some truly remarkable difficulties in their relationship with the rest of the parliamentary forces. They have exercised their task as a government with an absolute lack of responsibility, with a vile treatment towards the parliamentary institution and, therefore, also for the democratic system as a whole. That is why I reiterate with my words all that my colleagues have said in the previous speeches. It is truly a shame how your ministry behaves, it is a shame how it despises this Parliament. Although he said in his speech that there is no improvisation in his form of behaviour or in his laws, I think it is proved just the opposite - tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack - legal improvisation is demonstrated and it is shown that what they do not improvise is to mock Parliament. That brings him to consciousness, in that they really are experts, and they do it because they want, not because they lose track. In this, they do not improvise, they simply lack respect for Parliament, they believe that we are left behind and that is why they act in this way. In relation already - and very briefly - to the two draft laws whose amendments are all under consideration at this time, my group has not tabled amendments in all but we share a large part of the reflections that my colleagues, the rest of the parliamentary groups and also those that have tabled the amendments in all. If we were talking about a ministry that would have behaved differently in relation to parliamentary treatment, we might think that by the end of the process of these two laws it would be possible, through the amendments, to introduce the necessary reforms, because there are some aspects of these two laws that you have said are not substantive, you have not described them as a mere retouching, but basically that is what they are. We might think that the amendments that all the groups are going to put forward could be successful in the process, but experience shows us the opposite. The procedures of the laws that come from his ministry have only been able to make them worse. As other Members have already said, we are often faced with tens or hundreds of amendments that come from your group if it is not in the procedure of a committee or a presentation in Congress, yes in the Senate, through transactions or with its own self-amendments, so it usually seems very little to the text on which we discussed the text that came to us in the time of making the main amendments. We therefore have no hope that any of the problems will be solved in the course of the amendments - although we will, of course, make our amendments. That is why we will support the withdrawal and return to the Government, and we will support the amendments in their entirety, although we have not tabled any other text, because we have no hope that some of the issues raised on which we are briefly concerned will be resolved in their handling. In relation to the first of the laws, 121, the Government has abandoned the main intentions it announced at the beginning of the legislature. The whole reform concerning the judicial plant disappears, as has already been said, the reform at the stage of investigation which was intended to give the prosecution the main role. We think it's two bad decisions. I will not emphasize them any more because they have already been dealt with before and I share the reflections, in particular that made by Mr Llamazares de La Izquierda Plural and that of the spokesman for the Socialist Group. If I wish to pause for a moment to show my group's opposition to the way in which the regulation of the setting of maximum time limits for investigation has been carried out, it leaves in the hands of the prosecutor's office the power to request an extension to the investigating judge, in its exclusive hands, and not so to the rest of the parties to the proceedings, which is, in our view, unacceptable, especially in view of the role played by other parties such as the injured parties, the popular prosecution or the State's Advocate. With this text, all of them would be subject to the will of the prosecutor, who, if requested, works and if not requested, the trial dies; the will of the prosecutor who, on the other hand, does not even participate actively in the investigation or has a different criterion from that of the injured. There are many examples; I will give you a very recent one, the case of Caja Segovia and the Torreón de Lozoya, in which all the injured are against and want to follow the open process and the prosecutor is the only one who wanted to stop it, although now, fortunately, he has not been able to stop it. It has not stopped because the injured have been able to act. If the reform goes ahead as you put it, the prosecutor who is not a party, who has not participated in the procedure and who has a position contrary to all other persons, could paralyze the procedure because the others would not have the capacity to continue to maintain it. With regard to the second law, organic law, it is true that it introduces improvements - we will not deny that issues are improved and I will not talk about them - but there are serious doubts about one of the regulated extremes, in the same way as I have expressed with regard to the previous draft. Some have already been made clear by other speakers, and I will also refer to them. There is no doubt that the criminal procedure law needs to be updated in order to bring it into line with today's technological current, but this should not be used to introduce certain measures that may violate - and indeed, in the current text violate - citizens' constitutional rights. Mr Minister, particular emphasis should be placed on the possible doubts of unconstitutionality which may arise from the content of Article 588b(3), which provides that, in cases of urgency, if such investigations are carried out for the investigation of offences related to the conduct of armed gangs or terrorist elements and in which there are substantial grounds - other than armed gangs or terrorist elements - which make such interception of telephone communications essential, the Minister of the Interior or, failing that, the Secretary of State for Security and not necessarily the judicial authority may agree to it. We are absolutely against this decision. The doubts of constitutionality arise, since article 18.3 of the Constitution leaves no intermediate space for the application and interpretation of this precept. Yes, you communicate it later; you say it is communicated to the judge within 24 hours, but those 24 hours before impunity are not allowed in our constitutional text. This issue must therefore disappear in its current wording because it is incompatible with the constitutional text, there is no need and there is no guarantee for all citizens. As I said earlier, Minister, if this were another Parliament, if you had any other behaviour, these issues that I have just pointed out and many others could be amended in the procedure that is opened from today, unless you accept the amendments in full and are returned to the government. But you have already proved that you do not accept anyone's cooperation or amendments, except those that you impose on your own parliamentary group. Mr Llamazares said that he has a great deal of interest in knowing who the honourable Member is; she also has a great deal of interest in knowing who you are making the deal with to make a continuous mockery of Parliament. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Jané has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u36	Mr President, Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a full debate in the House to partially reform the Criminal Procedure Act. I would like to remind you that we are faced with a regulation of the year 1882, one hundred and thirty-three years ago. The minister said in his initial intervention that this was an unreplaceable reform and that an update of the criminal procedure was urgently needed. We share that initial diagnosis; we must reform the criminal procedure and so we have called for Convergence i Unió since several legislatures. We agree, Minister, that this reform of the criminal procedure must be tackled and for this reason - only for this reason - Convergence i Unió has not tabled amendments to the full refund, because it seemed to us that it could be contradictory to call for a reform that we have been demanding for years and that when we try to do so, we would ask the government to return. We want to take advantage of the parliamentary procedure to get into the content of the reform, but we do not agree to return to the Government a bill that we have been calling for since so many legislatures. This does not mean, Minister, that we are going to share the concrete content of the two bills that you have tabled before this House today. Other speakers have already said this, and we add to this: there are a number of precepts of these bills that open up doubts about their constitutionality, which may harm fundamental rights, which may harm such a fundamental right as that of article 18.3 of the Constitution, which guarantees the secrecy of communications.In 1978 it was collected:...and in particular telegraphic and telephone postcards, unless a court order was issued. There are no exceptions here, Minister, judicial authorization is always necessary and we fear the worst of the practical application of some of the precepts of the bills we are debating today. We fear the worst, because in the case of the fundamental right to have a judicial authorization before intercepting telecommunications - and today, in the twenty-first century, it is true, we must adapt to many new forms of telecommunications, electronic communications, which all of them always require such judicial authorization - you say in the draft: in case of urgency. Well, in case of emergency, but how many times have we seen it in the decree-laws? In case of extraordinary and urgent need, the Constitution says, and then the decree-law is abused: everything is urgent, everything is unreplaceable. And here the Constitution does not even open up the possibility of "in case of urgency": the secrecy of communications must always prevail and can only be altered if there is judicial authorization. Therefore, we understand that the Security Forces and Bodies must carry out their work, they must comply with protocols, but we are concerned that this new regulation could come to legitimize telephone interventions, as Mr De la Rocha brilliantly said, that it could come to certain crimes, which are also not so serious but which have a maximum penalty of three years, to intercept people's intimate lives. Even in some of these precepts the extension of the measure goes far beyond what could be considered reasonable; it can be extended and intercepted a phone or put a microphone at a person's home for two years, and this can lead to what has come to be known as phishing, prospective intervention, that of putting a microphone for a long time. It may happen that at that time a crime has not been committed, but in so long as, perhaps one day, they intercept a communication that may lead to a future crime for which no such device was initially authorized. And how does it affect privacy, Minister, if conversations are recorded inside homes and, in addition to the conversations of the person investigated, those of the relatives who live with him are recorded? Where's the privacy? This can cause alarm, misuse of it can cause alarm. And we fear that sometimes, from the Security Forces and Corpses, complying with very strict protocols, they will come to perform actions of external rigour in view of the publicity of the action that is not the advisable one. Today, Diari de Tarragona, on the cover: The bar association criticizes the arrests-show in Reus. This is a cover story for today. Because, it is true, there is an order to intervene, but there is a media development of arrests that goes beyond what would be advisable to carry out that judicial action, which must be carried out but it can be carried out more discreetly, more serenely, without causing a telediary penalty effect that we all know the impact it has. We agree, Minister, to change the terminology, we have spoken it more than once. The word imputed - and you have explained it very well in the initial debate - is stigmatized, and for society as a whole, if a person is said to have been imputed, there is already a clear feeling of guilt towards that person and we are not preserving his presumption of innocence. It is true, and we share, that an accusation can come from a simple complaint and that the accusation does not even obey evidence of veracity about facts that have not yet been investigated, but suddenly there is that complaint, the judge accuses to summon to declare that person with due guarantees and legal assistance, and we find that this person, upon whom a false complaint has fallen on many occasions, has then been accused and for the citizens as a whole, that accusation, because it has not been clearly explained what it means, carries a presumption, not of innocence but of guilt. We therefore agree, Minister, on this terminological change. Someone may think that this change is not due to strictly criminal policy reasons, but that change, the change from accused to investigated, better reflects what is happening at that preliminary stage: a case against that person has not yet been opened, it is simply being investigated, because some complaints have arrived, and it is quoted, in case criminal proceedings could result, so that he may come to testify with legal aid. We understand that the term imputed has been transferred to the media in a way that is not the most appropriate, so we agree on that point. We also agree, Minister, that police attestations without known perpetrator, when it comes to crimes that do not have a large entity, do not necessarily have to reach the judicial unit, with the time that is lost, in order to simply end up in nothing - it was claimed Convergence i Unió -, as we also agree to avoid those macro-processes that never reach reasonable times. The bill attempts to give each case its procedure, without accumulating separate pieces that end up with macro-causes that make it very difficult to manage a judicial process with due guarantees and with due speed, because speed does not understand these processes that are so dilated over time. We understand that these connection rules can be reviewed to avoid those macrocauses and gain speed. We share your attempt to set time limits that can be extended, but we do not share, Minister, that anyone who decides whether or not to extend them is just the prosecutor's office. What about the judge who's conducting the investigation? Because this reform is partial, it is not that comprehensive reform of criminal proceedings in which the prosecutor was wanted to be the protagonist in the investigation, but the judge will continue to have it. And if in that instruction the procedure is done by the judge and not the prosecutor, we do not understand congruent that it is only the prosecutor - and not the parties or the judges themselves who are knowing it - who can make and request such an extension. Above all, we do not understand that it is congruent, Minister, that we try to find a more agile deadlines, that we try, in a very laudable way, to guarantee the double criminal court - we were failing to comply with directives - the double criminal court guaranteed without giving any more means. Don't we give more means to justice?, don't we give more personal and material means?, won't we give more personnel? You, in your initial speech today, welcomed the fact that this is not going to have any cost; that is, no cost; it does not have any impact on the budgets presented. For we do not share it, it should have an impact; this should entail budgetary costs, because a new criminal procedure requires more means, more guarantees and, therefore, it necessarily requires that we give the criminal process a greater guarantee and agility and, for this, more means for the prosecution, more means for the judiciary, more means for justice in general. We would have liked it, Minister, if there was not that additional provision which says that this is not going to entail any cost, because we need a greater budget effort here. We need to devote more resources to justice. You said that we are going to adapt to the Community directives, and that is true. We're making a new statute for the investigator. You were yesterday - we agree - in the presentation of a book on the history of Spanish law, a book of content in which the role of lawyers is valued. In that act - I followed your speech carefully, Minister - the professional role of a lawyer, that noble role of legal aid, was clearly valued. We are also afraid that in this bill, when we talk about the status of the investigator, about that new regulation of the status of the investigator, sometimes for urgent reasons, legal aid can wait. The General Council of the Advocate General has already sent us proposals for amendments calling for no exceptions; we cannot want to comply with directives but then always open the door to exceptional cases, because in the end what is exceptional is too often a rule that is applied assiduously and we do not share it, Minister. We ask that this legal aid always be preserved. It is said that the detainee will be informed of all the proceedings concerning him, however, an exception is also opened: but it may exceptionally not be carried out. We don't share it either. Let us look for those amendments that the Advocate General's General Council has sent us to the various parliamentary groups because we believe that they are in the right direction. Minister, I was asking for more means. - I'm done. You give that second instance to the High Courts of Justice in the appeal to what are provincial court judgments and wanted to recall that, in the case of Catalonia, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia needs more means. In order to implement what these two bills provide for, we need, Minister, more means, more resources, more staff and more investments. It is therefore very good to come here today and comply with that subject of presenting long-claimed bills, but we must do so with the greatest guarantees. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the speakers for their speeches, but in a very special way today to Mr Llamazares, the spokesman of your group in the Committee on Justice, who has had an impeccable trajectory in this Commission and in all the parliamentary debates. We may or may not agree with Mr Llamazares, but he has always expressed himself correctly and with a good parliamentary style. In Convergence i Unió we wish you, Mr Llamazares, the best in your new proposals and new political destinations with which you will be presenting in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the People's Group, Mr Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u38	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Government of Spain and the parliamentary group that supports it, on whose behalf I am taking the floor today, has decided to undertake an ambitious reform plan. Among that reform plan, unquestionably, reforms relating to the administration of justice had a prominent role to play. This has made it possible for the Committee on Justice to have dealt with a huge number of legislative reforms and we have tried to give tremendous impetus to the speeding up of justice because, without a doubt, justice, which is not fast, is said as a common place, is not justice. In this spirit, since March, we have been addressing the comprehensive reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which has long been felt by the various political forces. We have wanted that new Criminal Prosecution Act to replace that of 1882, which is now one hundred and thirty-three years old, so that it will have, at least from the point of view of vocation, as long a life as the one it replaces and, for this reason, it is unquestionably necessary to have a broad political consensus; that political consensus does not exist at the moment, but this cannot prevent us from undertaking the essential and urgent reforms that Spanish criminal procedural legislation is requiring. As the adage says, sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. And since it is certainly best to make a new Code of Criminal Procedure, it is still good to introduce into criminal law a series of reforms to address matters that are already of extraordinary urgency: matters relating to the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, matters that have been dealt with by our courts of ordinary jurisdiction, by the Constitutional Court and even by the European Court of Human Rights, which have warned Spain of the imperative need to reform our criminal procedural laws in order to give due effect to the commitments not only of the Constitution, but also to the commitments made by Spain in international conventions, which are also domestic law. That is why the Government has today referred to the House two bills that regulate matters that cannot continue to wait to be introduced into our system. The reason that they are two bills is precisely because of the Government - which I would like to thank on behalf of the People's Party today - to make useful the mandatory reports that the law imposes to improve the legislative process. In this regard, the Council of State in its report recommended that the Government separate into two separate projects to deal in organic law with matters of such a nature and in ordinary law with those of which it is responsible. We are discussing them together today, but they are, of course, very different in nature. The first is intended to transpose Directive 2013/48 of the European Union and of the Council in order to give greater guarantees and better protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of the detainee, to allow him better information about what he is being accused of, to enable him to exercise the right of defence better, to allow him to communicate with third parties as well; and to modulate the exceptional circumstances in respect of which the restriction of this right is only permitted. It also regulates an issue that naturally could not have foreseen our legislation of 1882, such as the detention of aircraft or even ships, given the phenomenon of piracy and the presence of Spanish sovereign flag ships in the exercise of military missions at different points of the globe. Your ladies and gentlemen will no doubt recall how, from an analogous point of view, a legal construction had to be given to the arrests carried out by the Spanish Navy in the operations of Somalia, for example, and that today they will have a positive transfer of law to our procedural legislation. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, another of the issues that the Government is dealing with in this bill is that of new technologies. New technologies are producing the ability to commit crimes in an absolutely unthinkable way by the year 1882. But at the same time they allow justice, they allow the State to better investigate the circumstances of the crime and the identity of the offenders, and it would not be reasonable for those opportunities to be used to make our country a safer country. Spain is a safe country, it is one of the safest countries in the European Union; our crime rate is one third of that in Sweden, for example, but we want to continue to make a safe country while we want to be impeccably respectful of the fundamental rights and freedoms that Spanish people have, and that is what this bill is for, to make these two values combinable: security on the one hand and freedom on the other; guarantees for citizens and security of citizens. This is due, for example, to the strict regulation of new registration procedures, such as those for mass storage of data, such as the destruction of such data or, for example, from the other point of view, the monitoring and interception of communications; all of them subject to judicial guarantees and, above all, subject to the criterion governing the entire reform of the law referred by the Government, which is the criterion of proportionality. Of course, the powers that the law grants are not granted - contrary to what some of the spokespersons have argued in this rostrum - to the police as such, it is not the police themselves who make the decision to take the measures that the law allows, but it allows the judicial authority to resort to the judicial police to use the techniques of investigation of the crime. Ladies and gentlemen, it will always be a judge who agrees on the measures that we are talking about here, except, of course, in exceptional situations, such as those contained in Article 579, paragraphs two to four, of the current Criminal Procedure Act introduced by an amendment to Organic Law 4/1988, which allows for the installation of telephone taps without prior judicial authorization for circumstances of extraordinary necessity and in connection with particularly serious crimes such as terrorism, etc. On the other hand, with regard to ordinary law, it was essential to take measures of procedural expediency and it was essential as the Government had perfectly explained the autonomous procedure of commission, the generalization of the second instance or the regulation of the extraordinary remedy of review. They are all measures that will undoubtedly speed up the administration of justice. [[The Rumors Continue]] I do not need to say that the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against the proposed amendments in full. It will because we believe this is a good bill. I have to say here on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group that it is our will to make these two bills two laws that enjoy broad consensus. We are absolutely open to suggestions by way of an amendment which your honourable Members propose. We have decided, together with the rest of the groups in the House, that there may be a number of expert hearings in the Commission to enable us to enrich the text and to improve it. Many of the suggestions that have been made here from the rostrum have not sounded wrong in the banks of the People's Parliamentary Group and we are, I say frankly, absolutely open to hearing them. [[Rumors]] I am speaking specifically to Mr De la Rocha, spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this matter. Your Honor, I understand that by representing your honor to the main opposition group, you must present an amendment to the whole as it is parliamentary practice and use and more when we approach the end of the parliamentary term; but if we look at your speech, you will see that we are not so far off in the areas to be regulated or in the way we do them, and that it will probably be questions of quantity, degree and nuance that separate the positions of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We sincerely undertake to study with an open mind the proposals that will be made. I hope that you will be authorized in your parliamentary group to enter into transactions and commitments with the People's Parliamentary Group. [[The Rumors Continue]] I hope that the flexibility that we have shown can show you otherwise, but let me say that you will not be able to accept any talk of fraud in Parliament because of the fact that amendments are accepted in the legislative procedure; that there is talk of disrespect for Parliament when Parliament accepts amendments from the majority group. Mr President, Members of the Socialist Group are no more Members than those of the Group of the European People's Party and do not enjoy any better rights than Members of the Group of the European People's Party, nor are we being barred from essential parliamentary powers, such as the right to the amendment, which is enjoyed by your lordship, and precisely what highlights the fact that two hundred amendments from the Group of the European People's Party have been accepted reveals, in any case, the breadth of the approach that the Group of the European People's Party has and the freedom of action it enjoys. [[Rumors]] As today is the last day on which Mr. Llamazares intervenes in this rostrum, I would not like with the acidity of my words to disturb so great an ephemeride. Let me simply tell you, Your Honor, that I cannot understand how the tenor of your speech can hold at the same time that the prosecution must be the one to investigate the cases and demonstrate such mistrust of the prosecution. I don't understand the contradiction, Mr. Llamazares! Since I do not understand that I can say that, as the prosecutor's office is currently set up, it cannot be granted certain kinds of powers that the law grants and I do not understand it for the simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, that the prosecutor's office as such has been regulated in the Constitution without variation since 1978. And I understand that even less so because the Organic Status Act of the Public Prosecutor's Office, adopted in the last legislature, received the vote in favour of the group you represent when in the Commission held on 9 May 2007 the United Left voted in favour of the rule governing that organic status today, at which time your lordship was nothing more and nothing less than the spokesman of the United Left Group. Then such a contradiction, Your Honor, I cannot understand it. Let's leave it here - I insist - for dealing with today's day. Mr Esteban, of the Basque Nationalist Party, pointed out the need to adjust the maximum period of investigation of criminal cases, bearing in mind that the minister had spoken of two hundred and forty-five days of average investigation of a criminal case, but the truth is that it refers to each and every one of them and the bill distinguishes between complex and simple. Complexes have a maximum duration of eighteen months and simple ones of six; then it is above average. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Díez has raised a number of questions outside this debate. I was beginning to say that if this were the British Parliament and not the Spanish... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u39	Please be silent so that the speaker can be heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u40	Mrs Díez regretted that this was the Spanish Parliament and not the British, which was normal because she had recently also regretted that she had founded a party for Denmark and not for Spain. No wonder, it must be a unique way to campaign, to complain about the institutions and the country in which you live. Anyway, everyone owns the right thing to do. Your Honor, what is clear - I would like to reply here - is that neither the Government nor the People's Party have the slightest intention of sanctioning any means of communication for the fact that there are leaks of summaries. What the minister did yesterday, and quite rightly so, is to express himself on a matter which is very topical in Europe, given that at the moment in the Committee on Civil Liberties of the European Parliament a directive is being discussed on this very subject, a matter which bears the title of strengthening certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at the trial itself in criminal proceedings, a directive in which the parliamentary group of Mrs Díez, of which she is a member, has tabled amendments which precisely seek to avoid the leaks contained in the summaries. However, Mrs Díez, what I cannot accept is that I speak of contempt for your parliamentary group from the government because it is not true. I cannot accept Parliament's contempt, above all, of a person like you, because if someone has shown contempt for his own parliamentary group, both here and in the European Parliament, it is precisely his lordship. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. This law is not the criminal justice code the People's Party wanted. We do not give up making another Code of Criminal Procedure when the time comes, but these two laws, whose amendments to the whole we are debating today, are essential in order to improve the quality of criminal justice in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the law we intend to amend today, which dates back to 1882, had a magnificent explanatory statement drafted by Minister Alonso Martínez. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u41	Mr. Count, I beg you to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u42	I'm done, Mr. President. Said Alonso Martínez: Society must march like nature, gradually, and not by leaps. Legal progress must go hand in hand if it is to embody the customs of the country. This is a good link in order to have a good criminal procedural law and, therefore, I ask your ladies and gentlemen not to accept the amendments tabled in full. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Count. In two minutes we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u44	An institutional statement in support of the people of Nepal has been submitted to this presidency, signed by all groups. The secretary will proceed to his reading first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u45	With venial, Mr. President. Institutional declaration in support of the people of Nepal: The Congress of Deputies conveys its full solidarity and support to the people of Nepal for the earthquake that has occurred in recent days and is affecting a very large part of their population. Nepal is a distant but friendly country and we feel very close at the moment. We regret the loss of so many human lives and the extreme emergency situation in the country. In the face of this catastrophe, which has hit Nepal hard, the Congress of Deputies urges the international community to activate all the necessary initiatives and actions to support this nearby country; a support that is being activated and managed, in a determined and committed manner, by the Government together with other public administrations. Our deepest support and solidarity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u46	In accordance with the decision of the Board of Spokesmen, I submit to the plenary of the House the extension, until 7 September 2015, of the time allowed for the completion of its work to the subcommission to address the problem of violence against boys and girls, constituted within the Commission on Health and Social Services. [[Consent]] He remembers by consent.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u47	Motion of the Plural Left Group on measures to revoke the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 13 March 2015, which denies the extradition requested by the Argentine authorities of persons accused of serious crimes carried out during the Franco dictatorship. He's going to vote on his own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 34 against, 174 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u48	It's rejected. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO EXIMATE THE PRESENTATION OF THE TAX ON SOCIETY TO SMALL ENTITIES WITHOUT LIGHT. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 173/000209]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u49	Motion by the Catalan Group of Convergence i Union on the measures to be taken by the Government to exempt small non-profit entities from corporate tax. There is a compromise text presented by all the parliamentary groups and that is what we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes cast; 305 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u50	It was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u51	As regards the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, we voted first of all on the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Sultanate of Oman to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion in the area of income taxes and its protocol made at Mascate on 30 April 2014. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 289 against, 12 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u52	It was adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF GREENLAND ON RECIPROCAL SUPPRISE OF VISIT FOR DIPLOMATIC PASSENGERS, DONE IN NEW YORK ON 22 SEPTEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/00156]] - EXTRADITION TREATY BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, DONE IN MADRID ON 1 OCTOBER 2014. [[File number 110/000157]] - TREATY ON THE TRANSLATION OF PERSONS CONDENED BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, DONE IN MADRID ON 1 OCTOBER 2014. [[File number 110/00158]] - PROTOCOL TO THE STABILIZATION AND ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES AND THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, OF THE ONE PART, AND THE former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, OF THE OTHER PART, TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE ACCESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA TO THE EUROPEAN UNION, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 18 JULY 2014. [[File number 110/00159]] - Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, done in Brussels on 27 June 2014. [[File number 110/000160]] - Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, done in Brussels on 27 June 2014. [[File number 110/00161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u53	Rest of the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 303 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u54	They are all approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u55	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the speeding up of criminal justice and the strengthening of due process, submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Groups of the Plural and Socialist Left. [[Mr Tardà and Mrs Fernández]] There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 3 telematics votes, 311; 121 plus 1 telematics vote, 122; 174 plus 2 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u56	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u57	We will now vote on the request for the House plenary's approval of the deliberation and final vote on this bill. There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 308 plus 3 telematics votes, 311; in favour, 308 plus 1 telematics vote, 309; against, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u58	It was adopted. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW TO AMEND THE CRIMINAL INJURY LAW FOR THE STRENGTHENING OF PROCESSAL GUARANTEES AND THE REGULATORY OF TECHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION MEASURES. [[File number 121/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u59	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the strengthening of due process and the regulation of technological research measures, submitted by the Joint Groups, Mr Tardà, The Plural and Socialist Left. There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 plus 3 telematics votes, 311; 121 plus 1 telematics vote, 122; 174 plus 2 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-30-CD150430.u60	The amendments in their entirety are rejected. The meeting rose. It was twelve and five minutes from noon.
