ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u1	The meeting was resumed. Questions addressed to the Government and more specifically to the President of the Government. He asked first of all Mrs Olaia Fernández Davila of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, is the Government prepared to make the precise regulatory changes so that Galicia has its own electricity tariff that will allow it to reduce energy costs, thus compensating for the damage caused by the exploitation of its natural resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u4	Thank you very much. What we are going to do from the government is continue to work to lower the price of electricity in Galicia and also in the rest of Spain. For this we have made an electrical reform that has ended the tariff deficit, 26,000 million euros, that prevents again the production of tariff deficit in the future, and, after several years of light rise, this one has dropped for the first time in 2013 by 3,1%, it has done by 5% in 2014 - I mean the tariff for the domestic consumer - and the INE has given few dates a data that says that for the domestic consumer the light has dropped by 2,1% in the first trimester. Now what we're working on is electricity interconnections, which is crucial to lower electricity prices and make our economy more competitive and people pay less. Having said that, what you intend to do, to lower the price of light in an autonomous community and to force it to rise in all those who are not exporters, is something that goes against the principle of equality and solidarity between all Spaniards and I cannot share it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u6	Thank you. You know, Mr Rajoy, that the energy sector has a strategic value for Galicia for what it represents in its gross domestic product and for being a relevant factor for industrial production. Over the years it has been specializing in electricity generation, based on its hydroelectric potential and coal fields and, subsequently, in the development of wind and biomass exploitation and the construction of combined natural gas cycles. Despite the considerable social and environmental damage caused by electricity generation, it has never been compensated, even in large areas of the country it suffers from poor quality in electricity supply. Mr Rajoy, countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany and Switzerland have differentiated rates for different territories. The pact with the Basque Government which will allow lower prices for the Basque industry, with a 15% reduction in tolls and 12.5% in energy terms, shows that, if there is political will, the tariff regime can be changed. We demand that Galicia has a lower rate to promote the domestic consumption of a population that has pensions and wages among the lowest in the State, where 18% of the total population has difficulties in paying their energy bills, also to enable their industrial growth and to avoid the relocation of companies that are intensive in electricity consumption, and mention should be made of the problems that Alcoa and Ferroatlantica are going through. Our specific proposal for a Galician electric tariff is based on our excess condition in electricity production. From the analysis of the losses in transport and distribution - transporting energy throughout the State is 54,4 % more expensive than in Galicia - as well as from the analysis of the different tolls of the system, we specify the tariff and bonuses of 30% in the tolls to the autonomous communities that in the last four years exported on average more than 25% of the energy they produce. This would mean a reduction of approximately 15% for Galicia. Mr Rajoy, let me finish my speech by transferring our concern about... [[Shows a sign that says: Exploding telephone, contracts on leave]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. I can share some of the statements that your explanatory statement contains, but under no circumstances can I share your conclusion. I believe that the rate of light should be exactly the same for all Spaniards, regardless of where they live in Spain. If we eliminate the principles of equality and solidarity, that is bad for the Spanish as a whole and especially negative for the Galicians as a whole. Imagine, for example, that an autonomous community would say that the investment of the State in its territory must be equal to the percentage that that autonomous community has in the national GDP: Galicia could never have a high-speed train. Take, for example, a system of autonomous financing without solidarity among all the autonomous communities of Spain: Galicia would be severely damaged. Or imagine, for example, that someone might have thought of saying that with social security contributions from a certain territory, their pensions would be paid: it could lead to something as absurd as pensions in Spain being radically different, even though people would have contributed the same. Therefore, as a Galician and as a Spanish, I will continue to uphold the principles of equality and solidarity among all under any circumstances. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE EFFECTIVENESS OF POLITICAL COORDINATION IN EUROPE CONCERNING YHIHADIST TERRORISM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001264]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u10	Question also addressed to the President of the Government of Mr Aitor Esteban of the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. What assessment does it make of the effectiveness of police coordination in Europe in the fight against jihadist terrorism?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u12	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Everything can be improved and we must work for it, but the overall assessment I make is positive. The fight against terrorism is an objective of constant attention in both the European Council and the JHA Councils or even in the Foreign and Defence Councils. The most specific decisions are taken in the JHA, in the Justice and Home Affairs Council, where the issue is dealt with on a permanent basis, and efforts to coordinate measures continue in the Committee for Security and Home Affairs Cooperation, where the various States of the European Union and also the agencies, such as Europol, Eurojust, Cepol, Frontex, etc. Today we are working in a coordinated way in the following areas: strengthening controls at the external borders, in the European NRP, in the exchange of information between competent services with the various Union agencies, in the fight against arms trafficking, in the prevention of radicalisation and in the prevention of links between radical groups in conflict abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u14	Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. You say that everything can be improved and, indeed, I think it can be improved, starting at home, because, of course, if the threat, information and exchange of information that European agencies have is truly important, it is not understood why the Spanish State does not allow the autonomous police, Mossos and Ertzaintza, who are integral police, to have a direct connection to the international police databases. This would be police effectiveness and diligence in a security policy; an effectiveness that has been demonstrated at the local level by the arrest of a local jihadist cell by the Mosso d 'Esquadra. I insist, they're full-time cops. Nor is it understood, with regard to the European fora, that there should be no communication of what progress is made in them, even in the recent organisation of foreign ministers and leaders of the southern Mediterranean in Barcelona. There is no information, no participation, even for the State. The regional police had been informed by the press, but not by their Government, of the drafting of two plans: the Plan for Prevention and Protection of Terrorism and the Strategic Plan to Combat Violent Radicalization. They had to expressly request it from the Ministry of the Interior, which sent it to them, but months ago and since then there has been no other communication. I therefore agree with you that this is a serious issue, that diligent police coordination is necessary and that this is a problem at European level and you will also agree with me that all State police, including Mossos and Ertzaintza, are integral police and are therefore not subordinated to another state security corps. Within that responsibility that I ask you and that we must all have, tell me now that you are going to authorize the autonomous police to connect directly to the international police databases. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u16	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I can agree with you on many of the statements you have made, but there are others with which I am not. You read our constitutional text or article 17 of the Gernika Autonomy Statute, which states that the powers of the Basque Government's police are confined to the territory of the autonomous community. I'd like to tell you something else. The police of the Basque Government are represented before the International Cooperation Division of the National Police Corps through the permanent assignment of four liaison officers, and this body, as you know, coordinates and groups the central office of Interpol Spain, the Spanish National Unit of Europol and the Sirene Office in Spain. Ertzaintza therefore has access to the usual procedures for the distribution of information. With regard to access to information contained in international databases, the Division for International Cooperation is responsible for facilitating access to all Spanish police forces through various systems. The autonomous communities responsible for citizen security therefore have sufficient and adequate access to Interpol, Europol and Sirene, a system perfectly adapted to actual practice, which has proved to be effective both in Spain and in other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE DEMOCRATIC QUALITY OF THE INSTITUTIONS IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001267]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u19	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, I would like to know what opinion you deserve from the deterioration of democratic quality in the country's institutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u22	I disagree, Mr Sánchez, with your statement. Spain is a country with strong, democratic and functioning institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u23	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. It will be, Mr Rajoy, despite you and your Government, because since you are President of the Government, what you have done has been for the institutions to put themselves at the service of the particular interest of your Government, also of your parliamentary group and of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Look, Mr Rajoy, you, to name the president of the Spanish Radio Television, amended the law and, in a boast of plurality of information, put the former president of Telemadrid at the head of the public body. You, Mr Rajoy, to make another boast of separation of powers between the judiciary and the executive, put a professor of labor law at the head of the Constitutional Court who was precisely theorizing about his labor reform and who later learned that he was or had been a member of the People's Party. You have made an institution as important as the Tax Agency has been denounced in terms of public opinion by the obstructionism of the Ministry of Finance in relation to the collaboration and investigation of the Gürtel plot that Mr Ruz is leading. Look, Mr Rajoy, you have the dubious honour of being the president of democracy who has rejected most appearances in this Congress of Deputies for the past three and a half years; seventy, Mr Rajoy, seventy appearances rejected by you to all the groups in this House who are in opposition. I insist and demand that you appear here, that you be accountable and that you explain to us what your direct connection is to the irregular funding plot of the People's Party. Look, Mr Rajoy, your parliamentary group, the 186 Members of Parliament, yesterday had a golden opportunity to show that they are together with their voters, that they are with the workers and not with the defrauders. You yesterday, all the members and "members" of the People's Parliamentary Group... [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Allow me the joke, allow me the joke!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u25	I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u26	You did what you did, gentlemen of the PP... [[The Rumors Continue]] You have to have a little grace. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] What you did, gentlemen of the PP, was precisely...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u27	Wait a minute. Silence to hear the speaker! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u28	What you did was reject a commission of inquiry that you asked in the Catalan Parliament to investigate Mr Pujol's fraud, and you, Mr Rajoy, have again banned the publication of the tax amnesty of the fraudsters that you approved in 2012. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Rajoy, publish that list because, if not, we'll do it as soon as we get to the government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u29	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u30	After listening to you, Mr Sánchez, I reaffirm my initial statement. There is no loss of democratic quality of the institutions in Spain. What does seem to be a loss of quality in the democratic opposition in our country. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, when you were ruling, you appointed the director of Spanish Broadcasting. You talk about justice. I say that justice in this country is independent. It is the Constitutional Court, it is the governing body of the judges, it is the Supreme Court and it is the other judicial bodies. I don't know why you're talking about the composition of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is the one with the votes in favour of your party, as is the governing body, the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, if you do not agree, I do not know why you gave the support to the person you have quoted here today. [[Applauds]] I'll talk to you about the State Tax Agency. The government's decisions in this legislature have allowed EUR 124 billion in Spain - which is said to be soon - that are now going to start taxing in our country. The decisions of the Government of Spain and the action of the State Tax Agency in the fight against fraud have allowed to collect, in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014, 34,785 million euros, which are the best data in the history of Spain of the State Tax Agency, in the first trimester of 2015 - the best data of a first trimester of the history - with 2,889 million euros collected. The process of fiscal regularization is a process of regularization like that which you did in the years 1984 and 1991, with two differences: that then, of those who went to regularization, were not known their names by Finance and who did not pay anything, which does not happen at this time. [[A honourable Member: No!]] That process neither cleanses nor erases crimes. On the other hand, regarding the publication of the lists, I will give you a data in case you have to make some sort of comment. You have been in the Government of Spain for twenty-two years. They never gave the data of a single taxpayer of the State Tax Agency, anyone who would regularize, someone who would be punished for failing to comply with the legislation in force. They did well and I too will now fulfill my obligation. What doesn't seem to me to be a receipt or a democracy is to do one thing when you're in government and say another... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THAT A GOVERNMENT EXICE-President FOR ECONOMIC MATTERS HAS ACCESSED TO THE TAX AMNISTIA? [[File number 180/001268]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u32	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency by Mr Antonio Hernando, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, in March 2012 the government adopted a tax amnesty. Three months later, they approved the possibility of hosting fraudsters with sophisticated and opaque corporate structures. Not content with that, they allowed the cash that was not known where it came from or how it had been made. Finally, the Directorate-General of Taxes ensured that fraudsters would not be subjected to isolated verifications of statements. The amnesty was not going well and the Ministry of Finance sold it to the large law firms that had large fortunes with outstanding accounts with the Treasury. The Association of Professionals of Public Finance Inspectors described the amnesty as entrepreneurial, anti-social and unfair. And with all this clumsiness, Madam Vice-President, I ask you: do you intend to forget with this image this other image, Madam Vice-President, when it is Mr Rajoy who has made a tax amnesty to which Mr Rat has welcomed himself? [[Shows a picture of Mr. De Rato Figaredo being introduced into a car]] [[Show another photograph in which you see Mr. De Mouse Figaredo and Mr. Rajoy Brey hugging each other.]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u34	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't think you've heard the president of the government. This government has made a tax amnesty by applying the law and has made a tax amnesty very different from the two made by the governments of the Socialist Party, it should be remembered, because they were opaque, unchecked and above giving interest to the defrauders. [[Rumors]] Look, Mr. Hernando, if you want us to talk about how Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's government acted, when you want to talk about how they treated the Falciani list. [[Rumors]] Mr Hernando, take fewer photos and make more decisions, because you have important photos with deputies from your bench also affected by court proceedings. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u37	Madam Vice-President, 19 million taxpayers are making their income tax returns these days. They live with 30,000 fraudsters who have been able to commit economic crimes; together with those 30,000, there are more than 700, some of whom are former leaders of the People's Party such as Mr. Bárcenas, Mr. Rato or Mr. Granados, who are mocking a citizens who are marred by the crisis, impoverished and unemployed. These millions of citizens who fulfil their fiscal obligations are the real victims of a fiscal amnesty that liquidated the fiscal conscience of this country, undermines the credibility of the institutions and attacks the ethical heritage of Spanish society as a whole. Tax amnesty is the last chapter of a culture that favours the powerful, enrichment at any price, lies and fraud, and the fastest way to put an end to this infamy is for them to hand over the list of defrauders to a parliamentary commission of inquiry in application of the current legislation, and while, Madam Vice-President, they do not talk about transparency or regeneration again without the face of shame. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u39	Mr Hernando, the best way to protect all these taxpayers is for this country, with this Government, when there is some tax fraud, to be pursued, regardless of what is called the person who has not signed his tax declaration. [[Rumors]] Look, Mr. Hernando, I do trust the Tax Agency, I trust the prosecutors and I trust the judges. Those I don't trust are you, because the biggest mockery of all those taxpayers is that throughout the time of the crisis you paid a lot and yet you sank the bills, and that's why you had to make a tax amnesty. And don't make me great, because you also valued doing it. However, the citizens kicked them out of the government and we had to pay the €70 billion hole. [[Rumors]] Mr Hernando, you fall into your own traps and I will tell you one thing very clearly: who every day dedicates himself, not with one but with two press conferences - to deny the previous one -, as you do, to cover up the corruption of yours cannot pretend that we do not work against fraud, and we do, all the institutions of the country, not you. You want it to be published. I want you to look into it. [[Mr. Hernando Vera again shows the photograph in which Mr. De Rato Figaredo is seen being introduced into a car.- Mrs. Ramón Utrabo utters words that are not perceived]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u40	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Ramon, I beg you to remain silent. [[Rumors]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT ABOVE THE HUMANITARIAN CATASTROPHE SUBJECT TO THE CONTINUED EVIDENCE OF DISAPPEARANCE OF IMMIGRANTS IN THE MEDITERRANEAN AS A CONSEQUENCE OF THE NAUFRAGIO OF THEIR HOUSES? [[File number 180/001279]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u41	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how does the government deal with the humanitarian catastrophe following the continuing episodes of the disappearance of immigrants in the Mediterranean as a result of the shipwreck of its vessels?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u43	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u44	I especially appreciate the question because in the face of the tragedies that we are witnessing, all we cannot do is fall into what the Pope has called the globalization of indifference. As you know, Your Honor, the increase in poverty and hunger, instability, civil conflict and religious sectarianism are causing a greater number of internally displaced persons, refugees and immigrants now than ever since World War II. It is a work that we must all face together at the United Nations level and at the European level, and that is exactly what we are doing. The first thing that President Rajoy's government did was to resurrect the so-called Olive Group, which brings together the Mediterranean countries most affected by the phenomenon, which met in Alicante to make a declaration on immigration, which was corrected in Paris and which was evaluated at the Barcelona meeting, and that will be part, thanks - I stress - to the initiative of this government, of the immigration plan that is being prepared by the European External Action Service of the European Union. I myself visited the Security Council very recently on the occasion of a plenary session on the protection of religious minorities, which is another cause of immigration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u46	Minister, more than 20,000 people have been drowned in the Mediterranean in the last 15 years. This year already stands at 1,500 and in a week there have been 1,000, especially women and children. Every day this tragedy grows exponentially and it is on the same southern border of Europe, it is seen from our shores, it reaches our beaches, it is here. Meanwhile, European leaders prefer to look elsewhere so as not to see the problem. We cannot remain impassable in the face of this tragedy. Hunger and, above all, wars, which occur in many countries, in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, but also in countries such as Libya, Eritrea, Syria, Yemen and Iraq, are causing hundreds of thousands of people to flee in a desperate attempt to save their lives and that of their children. You know very well that these people are going to continue to leave their countries, that these people are going to continue to judge their lives, and the European conscience is obliged to save their lives. The European Union cannot continue with its arms crossed and, Spain, cannot simply call for solidarity from the European Union, but must say loud and clear what it is going to bring. Minister, I would like you to give us some explanations. For example, I would like you to explain to us why your Government has dismantled cooperation with the countries of origin, why your Government refuses to expand the functions of Frontex in order to save the lives of these people and how many patrols, how many helicopters and how many rescue ships it will deploy to this mission. Of course we have to fight the mafias! But seriously; they are mafias that move millions of euros every year in tax havens. By the way, tax havens that are very familiar to some comrades in his political party. [[Rumors and Protests]] Minister, we should have moved from lamentation to action a long time ago. We need facts and not good words. Europe cannot continue any longer with its shameful silence which is causing us to turn our common sea into a common pit. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u48	I agree with almost everything you have said and am glad that the High Representative is from the Socialist Group and, if you have re-established relations with the other parties in Europe within your group, I am sure that these remarks will be well channelled by your representatives there. To address a topic as difficult as this, you can't mix things up. I do not know if you have suggested that any of the emigrants who have lost their lives had their domicile in a tax haven, and I would think it would be a black mood of La Codorniz's own and not of this House's own. To fight against immigration, we need to know, like everything else in politics, what needs to be done. Firstly, we must control the illegal immigration that is exploited by the mafia operating in failed States. Secondly, mechanisms for the legal entry and integration of migrants must be established to enable them to live in dignity. Thirdly, we must cooperate with the countries of origin and destination. I would like to remind you that Spain is much closer to Italy than to the African coasts, in particular Morocco, Mauritania and Senegal, and that thanks to the external action of this Government the tragedy of immigration does not occur on these coasts, it occurs on other coasts and with destinations...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u49	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO GALLEGO BURGOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONFERENCE, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION VALUE THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION THE MINISTERIAL MEETING INFORMAL WITH THE VEGETABLE COUNTRIES ON WHICH I LOCATED ON 13 APRIL IN BARCELONA? [[File number 180/001266]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u50	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Mr Antonio Gallego, from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u51	Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and thank you, as a Catalan and a Barcelonan, for the Government of Spain having re-placed the city of Condal at the epicentre of European policy, by hosting the ministerial meeting with the southern partners on the future of the European Neighbourhood policy on last day 13. Barcelona has always been a Catalan capital, a Spanish capital of the Mediterranean, an open host city and for centuries has served as a bridge between different cultures of the Mediterranean. We are therefore very pleased that you have also chosen Barcelona, which was the city that welcomed the first stone of European policy with our neighbours in the Mediterranean basin. Spain has shown undisputed leadership on this issue and those commitments to continue working with our southern neighbours remain tremendously important. There are some issues on which we must continue to work, such as promoting political and economic stability in the area, strengthening energy and cultural trade ties with our southern neighbours and orderly management of migratory flows in order to end, once and for all, the heartbreaking dramas that we all have in mind and, in addition, to combat jihadist terrorism, our main common threat. For all these issues, and knowing that the summit was intense and matters of great interest have been discussed, we wanted to ask you how you have valued the meeting and what the main achievements and conclusions have been. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Gallego. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u53	Thank you very much for the question. I didn't value her. It was appreciated at the Foreign Affairs Council held this Monday, at which the Government received all sorts of congratulations for having organized a meeting that had not been held for seven years, and for having convened 22 of the 28 Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the North Bank and 7 of the 8 Ministers of the South Bank. It was an organizational success and the importance of the southern neighbourhood vis-à-vis the eastern neighbourhood was seen. The government decided to convene the Barcelona meeting because the Riga meeting, which is the eastern neighbourhood, will be held very soon. We wanted to say that the south also exists. We are aware that most of the frozen conflicts are in our eastern neighbourhood - in Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine - but it is no less true that the south demands attention. We have succeeded in ratifying the rule of distribution of one third for the east and two thirds for the south, despite the difficulties and the attention that awakens that border. We have managed to institutionalize the southern neighbourhood. The Eastern Neighbourhood has a permanent partnership mechanism, the Eastern Partnership, which has already met three times. The southern neighbourhood until this government arrived did not have such a mechanism and we have decided that it is the Union for the Mediterranean that performs this function. From the point of view of content, we have dealt with deeply human issues: youth, training, employment, education and essentially emigration. I would like to tell you, in conjunction with the previous action, that this Government is in all the peace-keeping operations that are necessary to eradicate the conflicts that cause emigration. We are in Somalia, the Central African Republic, Mali and Niger and have offered our services in Libya. We have also done everything we can to prevent rather than tackle conflicts. We are active members of the Alliances of Civilizations and Intercultural and Interreligious Dialogue in Vienna. We have done our utmost to institutionalize the fragile failed States that are the origin of many of these dramas and have launched the Masar programme - the road, in Arabic - for North Africa and the Apia programme for the south. From the point of view of cooperation, we have concentrated our efforts - the scarce resources that left us those before us - in twenty-three countries and in those sectors that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u54	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR CARLOS MARTÍNEZ GORRIÁN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT, WHO IS REGISTER, PROVIDE THE CIVIL REGISTRATION IN BENEFIT OF HIS OWN GREME? [[File number 180/001265]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u55	Questions to the Minister for Justice. He asked, first of all, Mr Carlos Martínez Gorriarán, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I ask you how the privatization of the Civil Registry is justified. I've already read your statements. You don't have to bother to tell me there's no privatization, because that's not the case. There's a covert privatization, and now we're talking about it after your explanations. I also ask you if you find any kind of conflict of interest in which such covert privatization takes place in a government that presides over a registrar of property. It's a very dignified profession, but it doesn't stop being curious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Gorriarán, as you rightly say, knows the position of this minister and this government, so let me make two clarifications. Firstly, neither the President of the Government nor the Council of Ministers nor the Minister of Justice have any intention of privatizing the Civil Registry service; on the contrary, we have an improvement commitment as already stated in Law 20/2011. Secondly, Your Honor, we would be doing a service to the understanding of the public on this issue if we talked about a quality public service and its functioning and did not introduce elements of confusion. Property registrars and merchants are public officials. I can provide your honor with a good case file from the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, if you have time and interest to read it. We can talk about the Civil Registry and I will be delighted that we do so and, above all, to know its proposal, but, in any case, there is no scenario of privatization. Be quiet your lordship and be quiet all the Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u60	Minister, it must be that you are being privatized without realizing it; you start doing things and all of a sudden, there you go! I've had a privatization coming up. What an extraordinary thing because even the registerrs of the property, through their official body which is the official college, have rejected what they call a privatization. According to you, even property registrars do not know what is happening with the Civil Registry, which is already extraordinary. Do not tell me that they are public officials, because they are not State officials, they do not have a public square; they are officials who have entered a square but who run private business, and if someone runs a private business, no matter how much they are from a special state body, it is not an official who is performing administrative functions, but someone who runs a private business, which is very respectable. What is not respectable is to turn an office of the Ministry of Justice into an undercover privatized service, in addition, with its strange claim that the registrars should do so free of charge, which the registrars are truly enthusiastic about. No one considers or believes that the Civil Registry is technically or in any way improved on the basis of the registerrs of the property which, moreover, in the vast majority - even if there is a minority, which will already emerge - do not want that transfer, do not want that conduct. What we are talking about here is a covert privatization. Call things by your name, stop dizzying by saying that a privatization is a privatization and not something else. That's the point. You have, and I am sorry - we have spoken about it on other occasions - a zero credibility in the area of justice: neither the judicial fees serve to improve the administration of justice nor are you providing the media courts; you have kept the judicial fees to SMEs and legal entities, you have abandoned and in a pathetic situation left the office of justice, and now, moreover, what you are doing is dismantling another public service, giving it to registrars who, above all, do not want to receive it. It's completely amazing that you say that that's not a privatization. Is it something else, it will be organized chaos or the destruction and dismantling of public services. That's what it is, I'm telling you. Of course, everyone but you - you in particular - agree that it is a privatization and covert and that there is a conflict of interest, Minister. I'm sorry, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u61	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u62	Thank you, President. Mr. Martínez Gorriarán, I understand that your group is interested in pointing to this controversy. This is the fourth time that I have spoken in this House to talk about the same thing and to reiterate, first of all, the commitment of the Ministry of Justice to the improvement of the Civil Registry and that it is a public service more than those provided by the justice system. There is a law passed by this House that mandated the judicialization of the records, that is, that it is not the judges who keep the civil records. Sounds like something reasonable. Mr. Martínez Gorriarán, I have intellectual respect for you; I am sure that you can explain many things to me in matters of history and philosophy, but in legal matters I notice some gap, because I am prepared to provide you with the Mortgage Law, the Constitutional Court's rulings and the Supreme Court's rulings so that you can perceive that the Registrars are public officials, State officials, under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, what the Registrars do is a public service ordered by the Ministry of Justice. In any case, I have repeatedly told the Autonomous Communities, the trade unions and in this parliamentary seat that we are absolutely ready to work with the groups to find the best model to develop the Law 20/2011 that this House adopted by a majority of all parliamentary groups. I will be delighted to hear the proposal from your group and others who have also spoken on this subject: that the judicial secretaries take it, that the judges continue to take it, that the municipal secretaries take it. We'll be happy to study any alternative. For the time being, it is our job for some officials to perform this function. In any case, we will bring him to dialogue with all stakeholders in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JORDI JANÉ'S DEPARTMENT I GUASCH, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ARE THE REASONS FOR WHICH THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE HAS DECIDED TO DISTRIBUTE BETWEEN AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES ONLY 6 OF THE 564 MILLION EUROS RECEIVED IN THE CONCEPT OF JUDICIAL TAXES, WHICH SHOULD BE DESTINED TO FINANCING FREE JUSTICE? [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001277]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u64	Question also to the Minister for Justice, by Mr Jordi Jané, Member of the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Justice, how does it justify that of the more than EUR 560 million that have been raised for judicial fees, money that was linked to free legal aid, only EUR 6 million to the Autonomous Communities, which are precisely the ones that have to take care of in their territories, when they have that competence, of free legal aid? How do you justify it, Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u67	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it is justified very simply, because they have nothing to do with it. The budget of the Ministry of Justice, in which 6 million euros appear for the first time this year to formalise agreements of collaboration with the autonomous communities that have competence in the material and personal means of justice, which we have already begun to develop at the sectoral conference that we held two weeks ago, has nothing to do with the rates of justice. Judicial fees have an origin, a taxable fact, a management that is absolutely state, and, of course, that no tax income is linked to a specific expenditure, but what it does is to finance the public treasury. They have nothing to do with judicial fees with the financing of the autonomous communities, as you know, because when, in the case of the Government of Catalonia or any other autonomous government, they received the transfer of material and personal means they obtained sufficient and adequate funding, which has evolved according to the model of autonomous financing that exists in our country. These are completely different issues.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u68	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jané.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u69	Minister, you're surprised by your answer, you're moving away from legality. You say that it has nothing to do with it, but article 11 of the Tax Act, adopted by these General Courts, which they passed in absolute solitude, with the vote against the other parliamentary groups and the opposition of the bar associations and prosecutors, and which they have had to rectify, says the following: The judicial fee will be considered linked to the system of free justice. You say it has nothing to do with it, but if it has nothing to do with it, why does it now set aside 6 million? It should not allocate $6 million, it should allocate the cost of such a free legal aid service to the autonomous communities that have assumed that competence. That is what you must assume, and that, Minister, is not generosity, it is equity; that is not giving a gift to the autonomous communities, that is justice; that is not arbitrariness, it is fulfilling precisely what this article says, Article 11, which you have approved and which then, when you have to move through budgets, you forget about it. Therefore, the governments of the autonomous communities, the bar associations, lawyers and prosecutors are demanding improvements because they are performing a service. I will give you a data: In 2013 alone, the Autonomous Community of Catalonia was supposed to pay 60 million euros to meet its competences in legal aid free of charge, and that year, of that 60 million, 2.3 million were for the extra cost of the Tax Act of 2012, because it was extended, and people who did not have to justify a shortfall of income accepted it. We therefore ask you to be fair and to comply with the Autonomous Communities, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u71	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I insist that this credit, which is in the current transfer chapter of the Ministry of Justice, does not originate in the judicial fees, but in the budget that this House approved for all the attentions of the Mystery of Justice. This appropriation is intended to cover many matters: to improve the administration of justice, to incorporate e-justice, to improve the judicial office, and to all that is to be devoted to the funding agreed upon, its distribution, its objectives, at the sectoral conference we held a couple of weeks ago, in which the Justice Adviser of the Generalitat of Catalonia also participated. Your Honor, court fees have a taxable fact, and it is the exercise of the jurisdictional function; and that taxable fact is the exclusive competence of the State. The Generalitat de Cataluña has constituted its own rate in the exercise of its powers, and it seems to me very legitimate and, moreover, very reasonable that it should do so. The financing of the office shift, of the free legal assistance paid by the Generalitat to lawyers in Catalonia, is done with the credit that in its day was transferred and which was part of the transfers received by the Generalitat. That credit has evolved, it has been increasing, it has been growing, and it is certainly enough to cover expenses. It is the decision of the Government of Catalonia to put more or less money on that credit, as is its decision, for example, to raise the scale that the State pays lawyers in our territory. If you have an additional expense, you will have to have your own funding, not state funding. So, that's the loyalty exercise we do with all... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u72	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GARZÓN SPINOSA ALBERTO, OF THE Parliamentary GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DOES THE SCOPE OF HIS 2012 TAX AMNISTIA VALUE ON THE BENEFICIARYS OF THE SAME AS THE EXCISE PRESIDENT SECOND OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF ECONOMY BETWEEN 1996 AND 2004, RODRIGO RATO? [[File number 180/001278]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u73	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. First of all, he asked Mr Alberto Garzón of the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u74	Minister, how do you assess the scope of the 2012 tax amnesty on beneficiaries, among whom was the former Minister of Economy for eight years, Rodrigo Rato?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u75	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Member, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration never speaks publicly of his own names. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] He doesn't.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u77	Please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u78	I refer to the minutes. When mentioned here in one of the Minister's appearances a name is because the person concerned has declared it publicly. That's the big difference. And he has even made a public statement, as happened with Mr Pujol. That's the big difference. In any case, Mr Garzón, I find it contradictory and paradoxical that your lordship uses the expression amnesty and then speaks of a person who, according to the information that everyone knows through the media, is being investigated by the prosecution for various alleged tax offences. One thing or the other, Mr. Garzón. I beg your honor, it's a bit of coherence. Although I know that asking for coherence, in short, is asking for extremes of responsibility, and your group is often obsessed with a determined political approach such as making competition to another political group that is not sitting in this House; they are dedicated to it. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u80	Minister, you must be reminded that you and your own tax amnesty did not investigate the origin of the funds; did not investigate whether they were crimes or not crimes; whether they came from drug trafficking or whether they came from any other crime. What has happened to Don Rodrigo Rato - whom some call that gentleman, but who has a name and surname and also a history linked to the People's Party - is that there has been a trial by another mechanism, which is not the one shared by the Government, which has allowed it to be highlighted. But it wasn't you; it wasn't you. It was the judicial mechanism itself. And that tax amnesty, which has only raised 1.2 billion - half of what you thought would be collected - actually served so that many criminals could launder their money. The surprise is that many of these criminals turn out to be finally his party mates. You are not here as Cristóbal Montoro, friend or partner of Rodrigo Rato. He is a finance minister and he has to be consistent; that is what you were asking of us and that we must make it extensible at all points. If you are a person who has been able to point out in public certain sectors such as culture, the media, certain political formations, even individuals in person, such as you who have been able to appear to talk about the Pujol case, you should also appear to talk about the case of Rodrigo Rato; because in the case of Rodrigo Rato, moreover, there is the circumstance that you were Minister of Economy. [[Applauds]] Many of these people, Minister, tell themselves patriots and defenders of the system, but they are the worst criminals of all. They are the ones who make that, finally, there is no money for public health, public education or public pensions. And you, as a finance minister, can't be an accomplice to that. Finally, what we have is an unworthy justice of such a name, because in this country if you are called Messi, if you are called Quatrecasas, or if you are called with the name of any other great fortune, like Don Emilio Botín, if you pay enough money when negotiating with his ministry you do not go to jail, and that is not justice. That's indignity. Therefore, after seeing so many defendants investigated and public leaders of the PP pass through the courthouse, the case of Ali Baba and the forty thieves is short. We want to know the rest of the 705 criminals, and you can do so by quickly supporting our bill to make public the names of those 705 people and the names of the rest of the people, who have taken up their ministry, to recognize those who are the most dangerous criminals of all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u81	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Garzón, you have to surrender to the evidence. It is with this Government that declarations of property and rights abroad are being known in an amount as we had not known in the history of the Spanish Treasury. That's right, Mr. Garzón. It is now when the Tax Agency is investigating the fight against fraud without taking into account - as I said in this rostrum - names, surnames, friends or enemies. That's right, Mr. Garzón. The origin of the case you raise is not the one that was already open at the National Court, at all, but it has been the investigation of the Tax Agency brought to the prosecution, which is the correct way to do so. You - on the left - don't like one thing or the other. What you do not want to do, Mr Garzón, is to recognize the most obvious reality: that with this government, with the People's Party government, fiscal fraud is being fought at a certain level and with a degree of effectiveness as never before had a government in Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO DEPUTY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: AS THE GOVERNMENT KNOWS, THE GOVERNMENT'S EXCISE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC MATTERS HAD ACCESSED TO THE TAX AMNISTIA? [[File number 180/001270]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u84	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Pedro Saura, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, since when did you know the government that Mr Rat has taken up the tax amnesty. Mr. Rato said that he told the government before he made the statement of the tax amnesty. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Saura, what you and the Socialist Group have to ask yourself... [[Rumors.-Mr.Hernando Vera: Ask what you want]] If you'll excuse me, of course.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u88	I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u89	If you don't like the answers I give, just don't formulate them for me. That's how I end up before, don't worry, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-Protests]] What the Socialist Group has to ask is why when there were EUR 124 billion abroad of Spanish taxpayers and tax collection fell in Spain EUR 70 billion you - Mrs Salgado, Mr Solbes and Mr Zapatero - did nothing to correct that situation. [[Applauds]] That's what you have to ask yourself, that's what you have to answer to. Now they're in the opposition and apparently they're different. Mr Sánchez was here as early as 2010 and did not propose any initiative to combat fraud, as we are doing in the People's Party government, with clarity and transparency. Of course, whoever is there - as I said in that rostrum - will have to answer for their actions, whoever they are and, of course, that I too. Whoever it is, but a few soon as well. With all calm, with all calm, among others, some of your Members who are still sitting on that bench. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Rodríguez García utters words that are not perceived.]] Having said that, I would insist on the idea that the Government has to evaluate positively a process that was extraordinary regularization and the Anti-Fraud Act that has allowed these amounts to rise. When you want to appear again, we discuss and other relevant elements, but it is that you have been carrying this issue from the beginning of the legislature, and I do not know exactly what kind of political revenue you give you, but of course you have the Government of Spain ready to give the relevant explanations. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez, I beg you to remain silent. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Montoro, there is a contradiction in what you just said: you were advising at that time to pay less taxes. [[Applauds]] In addition, Mr Montoro, he has been at the head of the Ministry of Finance for eight days since it has been known that Mr. Rato has been in charge of the tax amnesty. Yours won't last a minute, but do me a favor, do all the Spaniards a favor: before you go, publish the list of the 30,000 defrauders. In addition, Mr Montoro, you have to worry about the amnesty you made, the amnesty you made twenty-four months ago, not the amnesty you made twenty-four years ago, where 50% - the maximum - was paid against 3%. Besides, Mr. Montoro, what a complete ridiculous thing you've done this morning. You've been saying for two and a half years that Spain hasn't had a tax amnesty, that you haven't had a tax amnesty, and the vice president said this morning there's been a tax amnesty. [[Mr. Hernando Vera: Twice]] That was a terrible ridiculous, Mr. Montoro. Now you tell us that you didn't know anything, that you didn't know that Mr. Rat took over the tax amnesty. Why did you put Mr. Rat's Cabinet Director at the head of the Tax Agency when the tax amnesty was drawn up and approved? Why did you put it, if not to favor friends, the leaders of the People's Party and Mr. Rat? [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, why did you put Mr. Rat's chief of staff at the front? You are going to go into history for being the minister of indecent fiscal amnesty, and for many other reasons, but that is the first reason why you would have to resign. By the way, this country does not deserve a team in Hacienda as frivolous as its own, a team that has raised taxes to the Spaniards as never anyone in the history of democracy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u92	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. This government has done so badly that Spain is growing and creating jobs at the head of Europe, and there are two times - two times - when a socialist government is ruining Spain and a government of the People's Party has to take over economic policy to get Spain out of the crisis. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And go two, Mr. Saura, go two. Friends; friends have the Spaniards who have to confront... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HERNANDEZ GUTIERREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS CONSIDER THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS THAT HAVE SUFFICIENT EXPLANATIONS ON THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS AND THE DISPATCH THAT WAS FOUNDED? [[File number 180/001271]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u94	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration by Mrs Patricia Hernández of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Montoro, you already know that your situation is unsustainable at the head of the ministry. There are too many explanations you have to give and too many times you say you don't want to give them. I'm going to give you one more explanation for it: your relationship with the office you founded and the public administrations. [[A Member of the Commission: It hurts!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u96	Thank you, Mrs Hernandez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u97	Your Honor, having overcome the prejudice that the founding of a company in Spain is somewhat sinful - of course to the left it is, and so goes Spain when it governs the left -, I have already explained - I did from the rostrum - that I left the company to whose foundation I contributed seven years ago, in April 2007, and at the time I was in it there was no contract with Spanish administrations. [[Rumors]] As simple as that, Congresswoman. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Montoro, you're still late in your explanations, as it seems you're also late with your neighbor community. The consulting company Montoro y Asociados, now called the Economic Team, is not the revolving door of the PP, it is something like an open door where they enter and exit; one more where the right - or, rather, you - mix the private with the public, the customers with the taxpayers. You fund it, Beteta contracts with what you fund and then you take Beteta to ministry number two. You found it, dona Engracia Hidalgo hires with your office and then, what a coincidence, Engracia Hidalgo sits as Secretary of State of your Government. It seems like a joke: you found it and you hired it. They're like little tricks, going from the public to the private to the public but hiring themselves. There are too many reasons why you should explain and why you should resign. This is one more. The citizens see a finance minister who loses the elections, sets up an office while he continues to collect from the public, more out of order from the People's Party; then he leaves the office, but the members of his cabinet remain in that office when he was a minister; then he returns to the government, where he takes those who have contracted with you. People wonder whether that office is going to receive a different treatment from the other offices or whether the clients of that office receive a preferential treatment as taxpayers. What's more, I'm going to ask you a direct question: how many of those Montoro and Asociados or Economic Team clients took advantage of the tax amnesty? How many of those belong on the 30,000s list? Publish that list and we can see it. When we citizens know that public contracts are awarded to an office you have created, we have the right to ask ourselves whether that office is treated the same as the others, and it is not a particular matter. Nor is it a particular matter of Mr Rato, who received a public tax amnesty. How many of those amnesties... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u100	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u101	Mr. President, Your Honor, if you leave a company, you leave that company. I'm asked about the company's activity. But how am I going to explain the activity of a company I'm not in! [[Laughter]] It's really a fantastic thing, and I get it. You have been on this subject since the beginning of the legislature; the previous spokesman came up to that rostrum and said that the so-called tax amnesty had been done by that office. It's a fantastic thing. You really have to listen to some arguments that are really amazing. The extraordinary tax declaration is something that has used 39,000 taxpayers, a procedure that has subsequently led to 140,000 taxpayers declaring outside Spain worth EUR 124 billion. But what does one thing have to do with the other? What you do, I understand. You, as I told you last Wednesday, who dedicated an extraordinary session to me - and all that you need -, what you want is for me to leave the government Don't worry, I'll be gone, this is not eternal, nothing in life is eternal, but first we're going to get Spain out of this crisis, if I may. [[Several Members: No man, no!]] [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] When I came back here to denounce that a socialist government was sinking it more and more, you were defending that socialist government and passively assisting the public finance to lose 70 billion euros, without discovering only one of those alleged defrauders who had assets abroad. Excellent service sheet. Each to his own, we know. From the People's Party government we dedicate ourselves to taking Spain forward and you, when you arrive, will see what you are doing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA VIRTUDES MONTESERÍN RODRIGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE IMPACT OF HIS LOCAL REFORM ON THE CAPACITY OF ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVIDING OF PUBLIC SERVICES? [[File number 180/001272]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u103	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration of Mrs Mariví Monteserín of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u104	Minister, I should like to ask you the question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u105	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, in relation to the operation of the municipalities in Spain and the provision of public services, today the municipalities in Spain are healthy - they were not at the beginning of the legislature -, today the municipalities in Spain have had the financing mechanisms implemented by the Government - as you know, since the Supplier Plan - and also at the end of the month the so-called social FLA will be launched, which will ensure that in those cases where the municipalities are developing social benefits and the autonomous communities are not complying with the financing of the agreements, it will be the Government of Spain that will provide those resources. We are therefore making much progress in terms of delineating competences between what is the local administration, the autonomous administration and the central administration in this legislature. And, of course, I have to thank and appreciate the cooperation of the municipalities, which has enabled Spain to meet its deficit targets with the European Union and in this way the climate of confidence is generated both within and outside Spain so that we can have this stage of economic recovery and job creation that we are experiencing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Monteserín.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u108	No, Mr Montoro, I will give you a third reason to resign that it has nothing to do with the past or the socialist government, but it has to do with your performance. You have made with the Local Government Reform Act an unprecedented attack on the municipalities, the institution closest to the citizens and the one that you are putting the most means to cushion the effects of your austerity policies on the impoverishment of the population. You were shielded from budgetary balance to make an empty administration of competences. Mr Montoro, this is a municipalist country and this law, which is technically bad, is misconceived and misconceived, also intends to fulminate this municipalist sentiment, which is the basis of democracy. A law that doesn't convince its own mayors. So now you are unable to present the regulation that could clarify something. You did not measure the effects of the law; you, as always, are in another; you are at your own, at your office, at your business, at your amnesty. The real problems, those of the victims of violence, those of the evictions, those of the unemployed, those of the dependent people, those reach the mayors and the councillors, and their law has deprived them of the possibility to act, to mitigate, to solve those problems. So these mayors are forced to do administrative engineering. Yes, Minister, administrative engineering to circumvent the traps of your law, so as not to remain impassive in the face of problems, because you have turned your functions into a gallimatia, a competitive misadjustment that causes legal instability, management problems and inability to solve and guarantee citizens' rights. Mr Montoro, it is a law that only produces excessive bureaucracy and loss of democracy. That's why I give you a third reason to resign. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Monteserín. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Monteserín, third or fourth. It is clear that this is not a control of the government, but a reproach, but, moreover, defamation, comes to say that if I dedicate myself to my business. Defamation that something's left. It is their style when they are in the opposition and, worse, when they are in the government, because what they do is not dedicate themselves to their business but to ruining Spain. That's what they do systematically. Some business the Spaniards do with you, Mrs. Monteserín, go to business. [[Rumors]] There's everything they do where they're ruling and leaving their mark. But we have another style of conceiving the Government of Spain itself, and that is the style that is marking that the municipalities are being healed. Are you healthy or not, Mrs. Monteserín? Big question. I don't know if you can answer it intellectually. [[Rumors]] Are they clean or are they not clean? Were they healthy at the beginning of this legislature or were they not healthy? No, they had a deficit, and the municipalities have made a great effort to help change that surplus deficit. This Government has convened the National Commission of Local Administration during this legislature as never before had it been convened, every time there was a Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, is that giving an institutional role to the municipalities yes or no? Consequently, we give them the highest category, the highest role and highlight the municipalities as representatives of Spanish democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u111	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN RANGEL TARRÉS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT ARE THE REASONS FOR NOT MEETING COOPERATION BODIES BETWEEN THE STATE AND THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNA? [[File number 180/001273]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u112	Question also to the Minister for Finance of Mr Joan Rangel of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u113	Thank you, President. Minister, I hope you will answer me because I am going to ask you a question of control and I hope that, in your usual style, you will not end up decalifying me. What are the reasons why the bodies of cooperation between the State and the Generalitat of Catalonia do not meet? In particular, I would like to know why the Generalitat-State bilateral committee does not meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government of Spain has met during this legislature with the various levels of government of the Generalitat de Catalunya and at these meetings it has had a correct institutional relationship that has made it possible to reach numerous agreements. We have maintained this institutional relationship within the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and of the twelve meetings held by the Generalitat has participated in eleven. Similarly, meetings of the Sub-Committee on Regulatory Monitoring, Prevention and Resolution of Conflicts have been frequent to try to resolve discrepancies on the adoption of laws by the Parliament of Catalonia. There have been thirty-one meetings of the above-mentioned subcommission. It is true that the bilateral commission between the Generalitat and the State has not met once in this legislature, it is true, because, as you know perfectly well also, on the part of the Generalitat of Catalonia this legislature has become a systematic electoral call, to understand us, since 2012, when it was convened. From there, as I say to you, the other bodies of relationship have worked perfectly since institutional loyalty, but that commission has not met, I insist, because the political substratum has failed so that we can carry it forward. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u116	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Rangel.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u117	Indeed, Minister, not once. Do you know how many times he met with the previous government? From 2007 to 2011, eight times. They appear on the website of his ministry. Here you can tell me: and you more, because we have met many times, and I say we are in the first person because I was then a delegate of the Government and therefore participated in the meetings. The subjects dealt with were not minor, you know that. This commission is an organ to which the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia assigns a high role in the general and permanent framework of relations between the two governments. Minister, when the data are so obvious, so blunt, there are no excuses worth it, neither on the one hand nor on the other; it is a lack of political will. I would say more, it is a lack of politics with capitals, because everything is attached to the Gallinaceous flight policy that only seeks electoral performance in the short term. Minister, defending the rule of law means bringing value to your institutions and the instruments that these institutions are equipped with. It is necessary to make them function in all normal ways and to channel through them the political action of dialogue, negotiation and pact to resolve the conflicts that are emerging. And look how far we've come. Under no circumstances can it be justified to water them and empty them of contents until they are inoperative. This is not defending the rule of law, and that is what you have done, on your own initiative or with the excuse of the two parties. There's no excuse for inaction. Don't you think it's also a good reason to reconsider what my colleagues have said and request your resignation? Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. See how it ended up like this? It doesn't matter what the issue of control is, they end up like this. They're in your right, of course, there was more to it, but I'm also in the opposite right, they're going to recognize it at least. It doesn't matter what the subject is. But it doesn't matter, the Government of Spain would have liked to have the maximum institutional relationship with the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. You know - or you don't know it and it's not Catalan? - that there have been exceptional circumstances raised by the Generalitat of Catalonia, by the way. Or has it been the Government of Spain that has put them in political terms in this legislature? On the basis of these exceptional circumstances, the Government of Spain has devoted itself to ensuring the financing of the public services of Catalans from the maximum institutional loyalty and, therefore, to promoting the economic recovery of Catalonia regardless of the political issues that continue to arise from its governing bodies. That's what really matters... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u120	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN LUIS GORDO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT INFORMATION CAN YOU FACILITATE THE MINISTER OF ASPECT OF THE COMPLAINT OF THE TRIBUTARY AGENCY ON PAYMENT OF COMMISSIONS TO OTHER CHARGES OF CASTILLA AND LEON TO FACILITATE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF EALIC PARKS IN THAT AUTONOMIC COMMUNITY? [[File number 180/001280]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u121	He asked the Minister for Finance and Public Administration of Mr Juan Luis Gordo of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, through a means of communication we have learned that the Treasury has found the existence of an organized group of people and societies that have charged up to EUR 110 million for speeding up the processing of wind farms in Castile and León. From the well-known information, we know that they have participated high-ranking subjects in the plot orchestrated by Mr Villanueva's Economics Council. What can you tell us about it? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. I cannot inform you of anything, obviously, because we are talking, as you rightly point out, about journalistic information relating to an investigation initiated at the Tax Agency and, of course, Mr Villanueva and the Economics Council of Castile and León have already given the relevant public explanations. At least recognize me that the Tax Agency is operating objectively. [[Rumors]] Or don't you recognize me at all? You don't recognize - as I told you before - neither a case nor the opposite, it's a really amazing thing. If there was political leadership and a desire to hide, would we know all this that we know? And now we're gonna wonder why you didn't know each other before. Doesn't any of you in your parliamentary group ask that? Did they work differently? I'm already beginning to wonder if they worked differently, because it really contrasts one time with the other, it contrasts very strongly and already makes me doubt. They make me doubt the functioning of some bodies under their guardianship. I insist, why are so many cases and so many assumptions now being known that come from before all, that are not from now on? When you were in the government and in those institutions, what happened? That's the question you have to ask. I ask your honor that if you want to be an alternative government to the People's Party in Spain do so with all sincerity and loyalty, which is exactly what the Spanish expect. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gordo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u126	Mr Minister, what has become clear is that the Tax Agency is at your service, yesterday we were able to verify it at the presentation of the Director of the Tax Agency. Look, I'm worried about Castile and León: 28 years of People's Party government at the Castile and León Junta have led us to an exorbitant depopulation, has led us to the loss of young people, to the deterioration of public services, and this worries us. The People's Party in Castile and León has been alien to the problems of the Castilian-Leonese, but has not been alien to corruption. There have been various plots: the Zamora case, with Mr Aznar, the Gürtel case, with Mr Merino, and now the wind farms case, with Mr Villanueva. Minister, please clarify why large electricity companies have had to pay exorbitant amounts to access the wind farms licence. Why have they had to pay exorbitant amounts? And they've been paid to companies that are high-ranking. There are nothing more and nothing less than two hundred wind farms in Castile and León, which means that there has been a cost overrun of 900 to 1 billion euros. Clear it. And tell us if this system has spread to other autonomous communities. Tell us what benefits, who receives those benefits and by what means and whether it has affected the electricity tariff. It's your competence and you have to clarify it. I tell you more, Mr Herrera did not want to appear in the Courts, just as you did not want to appear in this House to explain the Rat case. [[Mrs. Sánchez García: What do you mean, no?]] Let's do something else. Spain and Castile and León need public servants and not people who serve themselves. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u127	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Castile and León with the governments of the People's Party have recorded prosperity, growth and a per capita income that has brought it out of the Objective 1 region of the European Union. [[Rumors]] No, you have done it; you have done it all. On the facts to which you refer, which you will have to ask is not the current Minister of Finance and Public Administration, will you have to ask Mr Sebastián, who is the Minister of Proprietary Industry, Mr Montilla and Mr Clos, or is it that there were not those governments and ministers of industry who were responsible for protecting all the award and premium systems? [[Laughter]] [[Mr. Gordo Pérez: It's PP corruption!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u129	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u130	I would like to say to the honourable Members, with a view to tomorrow's agenda, that item 30, the debate on all legislative initiatives on the draft law on the management, supervision and solvency of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, disappears from the agenda because there was an amendment to the whole of the Convergence and Union Group which has withdrawn it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u131	Urgent inquiry by the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió, on the measures to be taken by the Government to exempt small non-profit entities from corporate tax. For the defence of the inquiry, Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor. [[Rumors]] Please, I ask those who are not going to follow the inquiry to leave the Chamber and those who are going to do so to ensure that they are properly arranged.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister for Finance and Public Administrations, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like my first words to welcome the members of the Asdent Association of Santa Coloma de Gramanet, Barcelona, their president, Eva Jiménez, their husband, David Muñoz, and their children, Marta, Maria and Nacho, and at the same time I would like to give them a lot of encouragement and wish them much luck in seeking resources for the Dent disease of their son Nacho. Going directly to the subject of this inquiry, you know perfectly well, Mr Montoro, that the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió has always been very concerned about small associations, micro-associations, all those small non-profit foundations because we recognize them for the great service they provide to society. That is why we have put forward this question to appeal to your social sensitivity, Minister, which we know you have, and to be able to implement a different regulation from the current one so that all these small associations, micro-associations and non-profit foundations, which base their work on the volunteering of their members, may be exempt from filing corporate tax as long as they do not reach EUR 100,000 in contributions or billing, regardless of whether they have an income exempt. Throughout this term we have worked in this direction. There have been many negative approaches that we have encountered and we have finally reached agreement on current tax legislation, but still today these small associations, these small foundations and these small, non-profit micro-entities have great problems filling out corporate tax forms. So, before they disappear, before this great social work that these small entities do disappear, and before these small entities can incur any fiscal flaws that may result in a fine or infringement of their activities, we would like to reach an agreement with you to resolve this situation. Minister - I don't know if you know, but we have a fairly realistic set of data - we are talking about about about 50,000 entities between associations, micro-entities and foundations. In a global volume there are 50,000 entities that are in this situation of great bureaucratic complexity in order to be able to present the corporate tax. We are also talking not only about 50,000 entities, which are very important, Minister, but we are talking about about more than 2 million Spanish citizens who are voluntarily collaborating in these kinds of associations. They represent a very high volume in the Spanish associative fabric that make up about 50,000 entities of this type and of this category and more than 2 million people who are associated with this type of entity. Mr Montoro, we would like, since this is not going to presuppose any fiscal cost for the Public Finance - and I repeat that this is not an inquiry that goes in the direction of increasing the tax collection of the State, but that they go in the direction of being able to facilitate the work to all entities so that they can raise and solve social issues that the Administration and local corporations cannot attend to because of their lack of resources, so it is to be voluntarily resolved by Spanish society - that you increase the happiness of these Spanish citizens who are doing this social work of volunteering. Therefore, I am talking not about increasing resources, because this is not the case today, but about the fact that the Treasury does not lose a single euro in collection and of increasing the happiness of Spanish citizens who, not for profit, are doing impressive social work. I sincerely believe that today is also a special day for us to recognize this work. We are going to present an inquiry next week and we would sincerely like to reach an agreement with all the parliamentary groups, but especially with the People's Parliamentary Group, which has the majority to be able to reach it, and to resolve this very difficult situation in which many entities are now immersed - I repeat more than 50,000 - throughout Spain and more than 2 million citizens who are likely to incur tax offences if we do not resolve this situation. I would basically like you to think about happiness when you came up to this rostrum today, Mr Montoro. It is about enabling the happiness of so many citizens who are working with social and non-profit objectives so that society can receive services that unfortunately for lack of resources cannot give the administrations today. It is very important to set two basic goals so that you too are more calm and have more social sensitivity. I repeat, when you want it, you have it. First, know that it will not cost you a euro what we are proposing and, second, we seek to prevent these societies from disappearing and the members of these associations and foundations from being happy doing their job and not engaging in tax offences that can make them disappear. I will give you two or three very significant examples that will appeal to your sensitivity. An example is the association that is visiting us today at the Congress of Deputies, Asdent, whose members are a family - before I have welcomed its president Eva Giménez and her husband David Muñoz - who has a child with a rare disease of which there are forty cases in Spain. They have no choice but to look for economic resources because, since there are only forty cases, there is no pharmaceutical entity that wants to investigate for forty people. In hospitals they have told them that if they can raise awareness of society and get 200,000, 300,000 or 400,000 euros there they will investigate. The mother of this association has dedicated herself to going all over Catalonia collecting plastic plugs; today throughout Catalonia there are many points of collection of plugs that Asdent leads to recycle. For this recycling he collects resources that he fully funds the research on his son Nacho's disease so that he does not die. Let's see if they get it. Do you believe, Minister, that the non-profit association Asdent in which the whole family works to obtain resources must present corporation tax as a company? It has contributions from the members of the association that, as you know perfectly well, are exempt, but if it has an economic activity it has to present the company tax as if it were an Ibex 35 company that makes 30 billion euros. This isn't logical. I could give you a multitude of very significant examples. There are associations of parents of schools that are dedicated to socializing textbooks to rent them to the most needy families. These associations, whose economic activity is the socialization of used textbooks - it is enough that they have an economic activity, regardless of the quotas - must also present the company tax. Minister, since Convergence i Unió we would like to thank you - as many people who are listening to us today - for being able to be objective when it comes to regulating this situation. I repeat that we do not want the Treasury to lose a euro in tax collection - you know that we are implacable in this respect and we have always been at the side of the Tax Agency, send the sender - but at the same time we want to avoid that this type of association for great social purposes, voluntary and non-profit have to close its doors - that they are not going to close them - or they have to be immersed in tax infringements. Minister, we appeal to your sensitivity and call upon you to reach a consensus over the course of your speeches and next week to facilitate the happiness of all these people who, selflessly, dedicate themselves to the common good. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, first of all, I would like to explain that when the government approved the tax reform it did so with a view to making available to society an instrument to promote the economic improvement of our country. It was - and is being carried out since its entry into force on 1 January this year - that the changes made in the IRPF and company tax served to stimulate the income of families, to encourage consumption and investment, to stimulate national savings, to compensate all taxpayers for the efforts and sacrifices made throughout the crisis and, of course, to improve the ability of our companies to compete, while offering formulas so that they could be financially strengthened. The tax reduction is a very important part of the tax reform that Spanish taxpayers already have in their hands, who have seen how their payroll has risen thanks to the drop in retention, as in the case of pensions or with the early collection of negative taxes, which benefit large families and families and people with disabilities, who are receiving direct support from the Public Finance in the form of a negative tax. I would also like to recall, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, that in this tax reform we have improved considerably, we have made progress in the incentives for sponsorship so that, precisely, both individuals with a certain economic capacity and in exchange for reducing income tax, and companies have more fiscal incentives to engage in those social, cultural, research and sports activities that will enable civil society to participate in solving these social problems. For this we have the stimulus derived from patronage. I again take this opportunity to insist that when any association goes to a large company to ask for its cooperation, it does so knowing that that company can deduct it from the corporation tax. It is therefore public funding that is going to get this partnership to lead it towards social ends and, in particular, as in the cases you mentioned, so that we, with our policies, promote and promote practical solutions among all of us. I insist, tax reform contains all these mechanisms and they are to be used. On the other hand, last February, thanks to an initiative of the Convergence i Union Group in the Senate, we identified those entities with smaller resources that were having real problems meeting their tax obligation. We were urged to change this obligation to declare by returning to the previous situation. I recall, Your Honor, that I already replied in the Senate, in the Upper House, to the spokesman of your group that in the Government we were prepared to rectify and consider the case of the most modest entities, that is, those with the lowest material and human resources and to which the obligation to declare could cause them problems of operation to the point, you said well, of harming them in their activities, that is not the intention of the rule we introduced, that is not the intention of the Government, and therefore I have already publicly shown myself in favour of that change. Therefore, nothing further than the Government's intention to hinder these small civil society organisations - on the contrary, we try to stimulate them, to empower them - or any other non-profit organization of the thousands that carry out their work in the various parts of Spain, to which the citizens and the governments of the various levels of the public administration deserve to be acknowledged. I have already mentioned the importance and the power of incentives to sponsorship, and what I hope is that they will be used, that these associations will make legitimate use of all those incentives that are already in our tax legislation, in the area not only - I insist - of corporation tax but also in the area of the IRPF and, in particular, of micro-ownership. We do not want to bureaucratise or control these activities, if at all, as we have made clear on several occasions, to carry out more effective control over corporate tax information, but with the least impact on the functioning of these organisations and entities. In line with this approach, the Government approved a few days after the question that its group raised in the Senate a royal decree-law, which included the exemption from paying the tax to non-profit entities with invoicing of less than 50,000 euros, which also met the requirement that income from non-exempt income not exceed 2,000 euros per year and that all non-exempt income that they obtain be subject to retention. It is already in force, and we did so together, at the initiative of your parliamentary group. This royal decree-law was presented for validation at the Congress of Deputies on 12 March and obtained the favorable vote of its group, which expressed its desire for it to be processed as a bill, as has happened. It is up to you in your question to extend the exemption from corporate tax not only to entities with a maximum income of EUR 50,000, but also to entities with an annual income of up to EUR 100,000, and in both cases to include all these non-profit entities for the social purpose they perform, regardless of whether part of their income is not exempt. Your proposal, if that is what we will see in the motion, doubles the ceiling we have introduced and, moreover, does not clarify which part of those incomes might be non-exempt. Your proposal, therefore, changes the philosophy of what we understood was what was agreed and that you voted in the form of that decree-law, but it is nothing, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, for that we are. It is very good that you bring that inquiry, for we will continue to improve, but acknowledge that we have improved. He has said nothing in this question of what we have done, what we have worked on, what we have supported and what we can continue to work and support. Therefore, I again show my best disposition. I want you to understand that we are open to any possibility of making a further amendment during the course of the bill. My interest cannot be other than to harm these small, non-profit entities, such as cultural associations, parents' associations, sports associations or youth organizations. It has become clear that we have been aware of the difficulties and that we are acting accordingly, but we have to agree when one of these entities ceases to be so small and becomes sufficiently capable of fulfilling what is still a bureaucratic task, which is for control purposes, not a collection task, obviously. I therefore show you our willingness to find those points of agreement, which we have already had, I insist. It is good for you to make this appeal, but we have all that pending processing and those pending possibilities and I am sure that, in the most constructive spirit, next week, as soon as you bring the motion, the People's Parliamentary Group will work with the Ministry to reach an agreement and achieve the precise objective, involving all the political groups in this House, among which I am sure there will be a great coincidence to prevent a rule that is not collectory, that was simply controllable, from becoming a cost to the small entities, which is far from the Government's mind. That is why we are in the process and we will have every opportunity to seek political coincidence and to give a definitive solution to this issue. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of Finance and Public Administration, I am not hurt by the fact that you have had social sensitivity in this matter in order to arrange it in the processing of this royal decree-law. I said this before my speech, we know that you have social sensitivity; you have it and you have shown it in this royal decree-law, that you are in the process of amendments and that we hope that, when we debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we will be able to reach an agreement. However, a number of complications have arisen here that we did not know, because the parliamentary groups do not know absolutely everything that is happening in the societal world. Even, Minister, small associations or foundations, when they have read the current law, have seen that they were wrong. We did not know, because if we had known, we would have talked about it and raised it, but we did not know, because we had not been told, that all those small associations that have a small economic activity have to declare benefits. We know that the partners' contributions are exempt. We know that, although they have not been able to bring it to the Law of Sponsorship, this has taken a significant step and improved, as they have increased tax subsidies for all those companies that give resources to associations and foundations. But we did not know that if all these micro-associations or foundations of great social activity and little economic content have some commercial activity - such as, for example, the sale of the Christmas lottery of parents' associations, the AMPA, in order to benefit from this Christmas lottery buy resources for people who do not arrive at the end of the month - these associations, just because they have this economic activity of selling the Christmas lottery, must present the tax on profits. We did not know that, because if we had known, Minister, we would have been the first to give the can. You know we don't stop until we get it. That is why we have taken advantage of this inquiry, because it gives us the opportunity to have this serious and sensitive dialogue so that we can tell them that we did not know it and that we want to rectify it. It's not like we want to back off. No, we want to resolve some important glues that the small associations did not know and that are now very concerned, because if they have this small commercial activity for the sale of the lottery or for the rental of the books by these associations of parents at low cost, they will have to present the company tax; and if they do not present it they will incur a tax infringement. I no longer speak to you, Minister, about amateur football clubs in Spain. I said there were 50,000, but do you know, Minister, how many league chips are there in Spain of amateur footballers from six to sixteen years old? For we are talking about around 600,000 chips; and all these small clubs, no longer professional but childish, young and amateur, are also obliged with the sale of their clothing, their t-shirts, to do some merchandising, because otherwise, they cannot survive. We want to try to resolve this situation and we are convinced that we will achieve it with your sensitivity and with your recognition. All these non-profit associations will be given great news and will be able to continue doing this great social work that they are doing to date. In a word, let's see if we are able to increase the happiness of all these associations and foundations that are working for the common good, as they are doing so without receiving any financial remuneration. Let's see if we are able from the Congress of Deputies, from the Administration, to give them this great news so that they see their happiness increased and that they see the Public Administration - in this case the Tax Agency - as the kind face that enables them to carry out this management. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez i Llibre, you have no doubt that we will soon reach an agreement and give a definitive solution to this issue which has been raised in such a complex tax reform. It is no longer a question, as his lordship said, of sensitivity; it is a question of promoting civil society. No, no, It is very important that these associations exist because they are vital and are the body of society that are responding to very specific problems of that society. Therefore, the provision we have in tax rules is to favour that civil society. Financing through sponsorship or micro-funding for the first time in Spain - that figure we didn't have - is tax incentives. It is also the negative income tax that is addressed to families who have disabled people within them and that appears for the first time in Spain, since we have created this figure of the 1,200 euros per year - 100 euros per month - that previously did not exist. We must promote associationism and we must promote civil society. That is the spirit and spirit of the Government that is concrete in measures to promote funding because otherwise, it does not exist. Government agencies such as the National Lottery are also actively doing so, which is directly supporting our country's grassroots sport - I insist, not the elite sport but the grassroots one -. We're doing it and we're going to do it to avoid a hindrance that's bureaucratic. I stress again that it has been a bureaucratic hindrance because there has been no mood for them to tax more on corporate tax. However, we have to understand that a tax reform of this magnitude can create problems that we have an obligation to correct as soon as possible so that this civil associationism can really develop, because - in my opinion - Spain does not have the strength that it should have and that it has in other developed countries. We must do all possible policies to make it feasible for it to be effective, to exist, to extend it, and we can resolve it in the process of the decree-law and come to that agreement. I insist, it will be as a result of the motion but the important thing is that we go to the law so that it enters into force as soon as possible and that any doubts and, above all, any inconvenience regarding the functioning of associations of this nature, which are all of a social nature, are cleared up. We therefore need to obtain the representation of that civil society and, of course, encourage all political groups to participate with that greater presence of that civil society, because in Spain it is unfortunately not at the levels that correspond to a developed Western society. Therefore, the measures of patronage and of course the tax solutions that we can arbitrate in our laws must be aimed at this and to deepen in the utmost tranquility so that they see that far from having an obstructive stance from the government, what is being held is a driving position of that activity and favoring the development of it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE IU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON MEASURES TO REVOCATE THE AGREEMENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF 13/03/2015, denying the extradition requested by the Algerian authorities of persons accused of serious crimes carried out during the Francoist opinion. [[File number 172/000303]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u140	Interpellation of the Group of the Plural Left, on measures to revoke the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 13 March 2015, which denies the extradition requested by the Argentine authorities of persons accused of serious crimes committed during the Franco dictatorship. For your defence, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u141	Thank you very much, President. Minister, within a short time, we are going to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, a terrible war that saw how the triumph of Nazism in Germany and Fascism in Italy destroyed much of Europe. [[The lady]] German Nazism killed and tortured important parts of its population and of the European population, and Italian fascism did the same. We must never forget these historical facts. Likewise, Spanish Francoism, which was considered to be a regime similar to German Nazism and Italian Fascism, destroyed Spain during the war and during the forty years of subsequent dictatorship. And today, Minister, we want to know whether the Government of Spain - its Government - is going to bet on justice or impunity, because in the face of the challenge before us there is no equidistance: either justice or impunity. We could agree not to extradite the Spanish citizens who have applied for Argentine justice, but always in the event that these citizens are tried here in Spain in a fair manner. If they are not extradited and judged, your Government will have made a clear commitment to impunity, Minister, and we do not know why. Maybe you can answer me today. Obviously, we may come to believe that there is a moral and political link between the People's Party Government and those Francoist executioners who murdered our compatriots. If that is not the case, then we must extradite or judge, but, I repeat, if neither of the two happens, we will have more than reasonable doubts about it. Minister, revoke the agreement adopted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015, by which the request for extradition made by the Argentine judicial authorities was refused, in which case 20 people - 3 have already died, therefore, today 17 people - accused of crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship, including several ministers of the Franco regime. They immediately comply with Interpol's pre-trial detention order for the extradition of the 17 living persons claimed by Argentine justice for crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship. Make them available to the Central Court of Instruction of the National Court, as set out in article 8 of Spanish Law 4/1985 on Passive Extradition, as set out in the Law on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters and article 24 of the existing bilateral Treaty on Extradition and Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed between the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Argentina on 3 March 1987. The amnesty laws, Minister, which you sometimes cite, specifically the Spanish Amnesty Law is not a final point law. Therefore, it cannot be applied to crimes against humanity, and Spain has been blamed for this by the United Nations and Amnesty International, which, in their report "Time goes by, impunity remains" claim that in Spain there is guaranteed impunity for the crimes of Francoism and that our country thus moves away from the worldwide tendency to seek truth, justice and reparation for the victims because there is no political will to investigate. Minister, is there political will or is there no political will, as the United Nations Organization says? We want to know and we want an answer, of course. There is no pre-eminent competence on the part of the Spanish courts and tribunals to investigate and prosecute such crimes. By virtue - of course, you know - of the principle of universal justice any court of any country - and in this particular case that of Argentina - has competence for this. Moreover, it must be remembered, Minister, that this is the most serious thing - therefore, let us not point out to Argentina, let us point out to ourselves - that in our country, crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship are not currently being investigated or prosecuted. Crimes against humanity are imprescriptible, as established by the jurisprudence in this area, both national and supranational courts. In accordance with the principle of international legality, enshrined in a multitude of international treaties and conventions - which I will not quote because they are diverse which Spain has signed - which oblige it to comply with, the Spanish State is obliged to investigate and prosecute crimes which, even if they were not classified as such in its own domestic legislation, would have such consideration under the general principles of law recognized by the international community, as is the case in this case. In this regard, Minister, we must remember that the death sentences signed by the Francoist ministers - and I have just met in this Congress in a room called Fraga Iribarne - occurred after farce trials, lacking any procedural guarantees for the victims, which generate absolute defencelessness and whose sentences have been declared unfair and illegitimate by the courts which handed down them, in accordance with the provisions of Law 52/2007, on Historical Memory. Regrettably, ladies and gentlemen, we note once again the absolute contempt of the Spanish Government of the People's Party for the rights of the victims of Francoism. Truth, justice and reparation. They have turned Spain into a country where people accused of crimes against humanity are sheltered and taken refuge. They're still on time. They revoke the agreement of the Council of Ministers, agree to Interpol's request to hand over these criminals. We know that some of them were very important people. A few days ago in Germany the accountant of the Auschwitz concentration camp was brought to trial. Someone might think there's no comparison. Yeah, he's got a comparison. They are criminals and, therefore, the place of criminals is before a judge and, if necessary, prison. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. The Minister of Justice then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u143	Thank you, President. Mr Nuet, the succession of democratic decisions, by virtue of which the Spanish people took possession of their sovereignty more than thirty-six years ago, is the one that constitutes a rule of law and a model of coexistence that cannot - and your Lordship knows - be further removed from the past to which we then wanted to turn our backs. It is from respect for that option, born of dialogue and agreement, as we now contemplate any other system other than the democratic one with an open and manifest rejection, whose best demonstration is found, not in official statements - which also, because this House on 20 November 2002 unanimously adopted a resolution in this regard - but in the most obvious way, that it is the daily occurrence of social, economic, institutional, political and all-round relations in today's democratic Spain, where there is no arbitrary decision by the public authorities. From this attitude, which does not require political reminders on the part of the Government, it is how the Government will respond to this question and to the question that motivates it, in accordance with the imperatives of the rule of law. Allow me to make a couple of general considerations about extradition and, first of all, the most important of them is precisely the international component of these procedures, because there is no extradition if it is not in an international dimension, as is evident. It is this dimension that explains the presence of Governments, as well as the fact that from a legal point of view the matter is regulated in detail by international treaties. It is treaties and domestic laws that set out the requirements, procedures and limits governing any extradition, not the will of a Government, regardless of the Government. Thus, in Spain, it is necessary to consider the international treaties of this nature that we have signed as a State, for example, with Argentina, and also with thirty-six other States. Also our own Constitution and the law that you mentioned, Law 4/1985, on Passive Extradition, form the system around which we will have to find the concrete solution to the question that you raise today. It is these rules that must determine the actions of the Government and the judges, because the judges also participate in extradition matters. There are numerous judgements of the Supreme Court which show the mixed administrative and judicial nature of the proceedings, which have three stages: two administrative phases and one judicial phase, defined by law and, in any case, independent from each other. Therefore, extradition, ladies and gentlemen, is a mechanism of cooperation, the purpose of which is to subject the defendant to judicial proceedings or to require him, in his case, to carry out a criminal conviction, hence this twofold aspect, governmental and jurisdictional. I insist that this is therefore a regulated procedure, subject to formal and substantive requirements. It is the treaties and laws that impose the limits on us. From that, I would also like to highlight one evidence: the Government has always acted in accordance with the law, making use of the powers that assist it and applying the limits of the law, but I also assure you that we have not only limited ourselves to applying the law, but have tried to carry out this exercise from the maximum collaboration within the jurisdiction with the Argentine justice system in the context of the case being investigated by Judge Servini de Cubría. He probably recalls the displacement of Judge Servini, with extensive media coverage, in 2014, in which he travelled much of the Spanish territory taking statements and performing various actions. At that time, the position of the Government of Spain was the same as it is now: the absolute need for respect for both legality, international legality and national legality. In fact, the Government of Spain at that time not only did not pose any problems, but accelerated the processing of the letters rogatory so that Judge Servini could act in our country, a collaboration that the Argentine Ministry of Foreign Affairs has certainly thanked. [[The lady]] In that case, Your Honor, as in any other case, the Government only demanded compliance with international treaties, thus mediating the appropriate rogatory commissions prior to the removal of Judge Servini. Similarly, the Ministry of Justice has given prompt action to all the rogatory commissions that we have received in multiple areas, for example, that we have been asked to exhume in Guadalajara province. What is also true is that the Government cannot, in this or in any other case, allow jurisdictional proceedings to be carried out in Spain by foreign authorities without using the mechanisms provided for in that regard. Once the rogatory commissions have been issued, according to the bilateral treaty we have with Argentina, I assure you that the collaboration has been maximum. The National Court, by orders of 25 and 30 April 2014 - the National Court and not the Government - was the one who rejected the extradition requested, for example, by Juan Antonio González Pacheco and Jesús Muñecas Aguilar for crimes of torture, of whom they were accused and who considered that they were prescribed and that they were not constitutive of genocide. As evidenced by the Passive Extradition Act, the decision of a court refusing extradition is binding on a Government. The Government therefore proceeded to refuse in that case, a case which also serves me to explain to it the treatment followed in the rest of the extraditions requested. On 5 December 2014, requests were received for the extradition of 20 persons in order to request an investigatory statement in the case in which he investigates events that occurred during the time of the franchise. In view of the documentation submitted, which seemed insufficient by the technical services, additional documentation was requested from the Argentine authorities through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 16 December. This documentation was received on 24 February this year and, under the Passive Extradition Act, the Government, within eight days, took a decision as to whether or not extradition proceedings should be continued in court. Well, of course, it is up to the Government to assess whether or not extradition should continue at this stage. Once the documentation was analysed, it was considered that there was no need to continue the extradition procedure, but I assure you that this is a competence in strict compliance with the law and based on the agreement of the Council of Ministers - which your Lordship certainly knows - in all detail the arguments for which it was decided not to continue the procedure. Your Honor, there is no international right to surrender, nor to the contrary an international obligation to surrender. They are not absolute rights or obligations. That is why there are international treaties, in order to determine the conditions and circumstances under which extradition should be carried out or not, but never unconditionally. I believe that this is where a fundamental error of his approach lies, in understanding that Spain is obliged to extradite. Spain has to comply with international treaties because, as I say, there is no obligation to extradite. If that were the case, it would not make sense either the treaties or the domestic laws or international obligations that Spain as a State has assumed. When you ask us to revoke the Council of Ministers agreement, you are telling us that all the legal argument behind the agreement, which is public and known, has no meaning and has no basis. Therefore, you will understand, Your Honor, that you insist on this idea. The arguments on which the Government refused the continuation of extradition have to do, first of all, with the preferential character of Spanish jurisdiction. These are acts committed in Spain and, therefore, there is no need for any Argentine court to come to trial this series of circumstances. Secondly, the end of criminal responsibility. In a democratic state like Spanish we have rules on the extinction of criminal responsibility, the Passive Extradition Act itself contemplates this and, therefore, that is the second argument. Thirdly, for some of the cases raised in that request, the requirement of double criminality did not coincide, that the offences should be criminalized in both countries. In a succinct but well-founded manner, for these three reasons, in application of the law and not in a discretionary exercise like the one you are asking me at this time to revoke the agreement adopted, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the bilateral treaty and in accordance with our domestic law, it is for this reason that the Government considered that the extradition order requested by Judge Servini had to be refused, I insist, in compliance with all the requirements of the rule of law. Your Honor, I believe that your approach to the revocation, to the transfer of Spanish citizens to Argentina for prosecution for hypothetical crimes committed in Spain, in my opinion, is absolutely unfounded. In addition, in your speech I have heard some expressions that you may think we have some moral connection from the Government with the Francoist executioners. Your Honor, you are certainly out of line with the approach. Nothing further than the intention of this Government because the only objective we have is law enforcement, compliance with international obligations and the maintenance of our rule of law. You, however, make a series of trials that give them criminal responsibility, criminalize people who have not had that recognition for Spanish justice. I would ask him for respect, as they often put the Government in front of the respect of the courts, the prosecutor's office. Let us show our respect for our courts and our prosecutor's office on this occasion. Therefore, those persons who have not been subject to criminality in our territory do not appear to have to be subject to any international jurisdiction in order for them to carry out that prosecution of what the Spanish justice does not consider necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u144	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u145	Thank you, President. Minister, I do not share your criteria. The sovereignty of a State, in this case the Spanish State, does not protect alleged criminals accused of crimes against humanity and genocide. We're not talking about pursers, Minister, we're talking about genocide. Therefore, the legal categories that you use and that I am using do not agree. We are not talking about Argentina going to judge criminals who could be tried in Spain. The big problem is that Spain has impunity for these crimes, which is why Argentina's justice has acted. That is what we are talking about, Minister. Because the Argentine justice system established that the crimes under investigation constituted crimes against humanity and called for the possibility of prosecuting those responsible under the principle of universal justice and that, in particular, the Spanish State could not be shielded from the principles of limitation and extinguishment of criminal responsibility in order not to extradite or prosecute those responsible for serious human rights violations. Torture, Minister, summary executions and enforced disappearance can constitute crimes against humanity, can they not? Moreover, international law is very emphatic, Minister. Crimes against humanity and crimes of torture were imprescriptible and therefore the State's obligation to investigate and punish those responsible did not expire. Also, enforced disappearance is a continuing crime and a permanent violation of human rights. The obligation to investigate lasts until the fate and whereabouts of the person are established, and some of these people are buried in the gutters and in the graveyards throughout Spain. The Government has invoked the principles - you yourself did so now from the rostrum - of preferential jurisdiction and non-double criminality. However, these principles, Minister, do not apply in these cases, since at present, more than forty years after the events, investigations have not been initiated in Spain into these crimes, including torture, disappearances or executions committed during the franchise; we are talking about all this, Minister. We have our dead buried in the coves and tapestries of the cemeteries of Spain, as I said. That is why we are not a normalized democracy, because democracy cannot be built, as you claim, on oblivion and impunity, and therefore we will not stop, Minister. Today is Argentina, tomorrow will be another democratic country until we have justice, truth and reparation in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u146	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u147	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I have tried to explain to you in my first speech how the Government understands the application of our legal framework, a mature, responsible, consolidated legal framework, typical of an advanced democracy, from which there is absolute respect for the rule of law, the internal rules and the international rules that we have entered into with third States. We manage extraditions, transfers every week, strictly and thoroughly meeting the requirements and conditions set out in the legislative framework. There is not the slightest room for subjective appreciation, for consideration of whether it suits us, if it is appropriate, if it is appropriate; there is strict compliance with our domestic legislation and strict compliance with our international conventions. Your Honor, I must reiterate that in the case before us it has been the result of this analysis made since the case law, from the judgments of the National Court, from the opinion of the experts and technicians of the Ministry of Justice, where it has been established in this case that the principles of preferential jurisdiction require in their case that these matters be known by the Spanish courts and not by that of a third country where those crimes have not been committed. In any case, it is a reflection - I do not now intend to reopen the debate due to time constraints - on the concept of universal justice. Here in Spain we have rightly narrowed down the causes that must be known by the Spanish courts, and it would be very good if some other countries that have, in my opinion, a democratic deficit did not intend to prosecute what democratic countries with the full functioning of the rule of law are carrying out in terms of control and prosecution naturally. In any case, that is the responsibility of others. We believe that the principle of jurisdictional speciality, the principle of the extinction of criminal responsibility, must be applied in our country and also applied to this particular case. Surely you, Your Honor, with today's eyes you may still feel that signing a death penalty may be a very serious fact, but it is a coincidence that at that time in Spain, in our society, in our legal framework it was not a crime to sign death sentences. Today's eyes may seem absolutely excruciating to us the death penalty and we are the first to commit ourselves to its eradication in all countries, but, as so often happens, when it is intended to prosecute with today's eyes events that occurred in the past, at that historic moment, very serious mistakes are often made. On the other hand, I believe that your lordship is looking for too many things. I do not know that there are any judgments or judicial decisions attesting to the commission of these crimes, but you already attribute all the responsibilities and consequences to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of this Government and - I believe - of Spanish society as a whole, with the Transition and with the Amnesty Act, adopted with full social and political support in 1977, has enabled us to overcome very difficult stages in our recent history and in which, in addition - I think I recall - there were also illustrious members of this House who belonged to parliamentary groups, not with the same name, but very close ideologically to his lordship, who collaborated in this work of reconciliation and recovery of our democratic system. Perhaps you now have a certain lukewarmness in remembering that past, but I repeat what seems to you to be being done so high up, that in this country and in this Parliament we have passed laws to overcome the historical stages and to build a democratic and rule-of-law state. Therefore, every day, when we apply that rule of law to all public policies, in particular extradition, we do nothing but apply the rules according to which the National Court has in some cases established as general rules, and in some way with what the law and the treaties say. I do not think it is reasonable, appropriate or appropriate, in accordance with our legal framework, to revoke the agreement of the Council of Ministers, but to maintain the principles of our Passive Extradition Act, our Constitution and international treaties, including that signed with Argentina. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u148	Thank you, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO AVOID THE EMIGRATION OF SPANISH YOUNG PEOPLE AND TO FAVOUR The return of those who have been forced to leave Spain in search of employment opportunities. [[File number 172/000304]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u149	We turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's call for measures that the Government intends to take to prevent the emigration of Spanish young people and to encourage the return of those who have been forced to leave Spain in search of employment opportunities. For your presentation and defense, Mrs. Rodríguez García.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u150	Thank you, Madam President. This is a question concerning young migrants, especially so that they do not emigrate again and to ensure that those who are already out return to our country. I see our forums full of young people to whom I hope we can give in the future an answer so that they do not have to leave our country after so much effort, so much study and so much preparation. This is a question that refers to young people, minister, but I do not want to say that it also refers to many older people who had to leave during these years of our country looking for new vital plans to find new opportunities. The first thing I want to denounce, Minister, is that all this time your Government has not put in place the necessary mechanisms so that we can count, so that we can have an accurate picture of what is happening and what the real situation is, and in this way take effective measures to combat it. The consensus figure is half a million Spanish young people, more than 400,000 who are abroad today, forced by the lack of opportunities in our country. They are young people who have abandoned their land, their roots, their family and their friends as a result of the failure of their employment policies; it is a whole generation, who today thinks that to have some job opportunity they have to leave Spain. They are young people who have a very qualified background and which we do not care about. R & D+i cut-off policies have driven many young researchers out of the labour market. Over the past four years, research staff have been reduced by nearly 20,000 people in our country, half of them working in public institutions or universities; as I said, this is a loss of human capital that we cannot dispense with. We demand an urgent talent return plan. Madam Minister, this is a waste of resources that our country cannot spare. Mrs Báñez, I imagine we agree with the dramatic situation that hundreds of thousands of compatriots are going through. I expect you today to tell the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also the young people who listen to us from the rostrum, their parents and their mothers, whether your Government has any plans to stop this flight of human capital and whether it is working on any initiative to return those who have forced themselves to leave. Above all, I hope from you that, after almost four years in the Government and the Ministry of Employment, you have managed to raise your awareness of this problem and avoid referring to it today in this rostrum as external mobility, entrepreneurs abroad or young people with adventurous spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, these young people have left because of the lack of professional opportunities in our country. Let us make a brief review of the data to see what the labour market is, what its unemployment situation is and what we are offering them; data that, as I told you, are necessary for analysis, diagnosis and treatment to alleviate this situation. According to the last labour force survey we know of in the fourth quarter, the unemployment rate for young people under the age of 25 in our country is 51.8%, more than double the overall rate of pass; in my autonomous community, Castile-La Mancha, the youth unemployment rate is the highest in the whole country and represents 62.32 %. [[EPA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have the unfortunate record of being the country of the European Union with the highest rate of youth unemployment. According to Eurostat, at the end of 2014 this rate reached 53.2%, well above the average for the euro area and the European Union. If we look at the affiliation data of February 2015, 65% of young people have a precarious contract; only 14% have a training contract, in practice, learning or training. Public service contracting data also tell us that, of the total number of indefinite contracts that have been signed, only 10% corresponded to under 25 years of age. As regards the conversion of training contracts into indefinite contracts, which was one of their great promises, only 3% of these contracts became indefinite. These are the data and statistics, but behind these data are the people; these young people are qualified with extraordinary training and in which we have invested a lot. This must also be put into value as a country. They are young people who are disenchanted and who live with the agony of not seeing any alternative. They see no alternative to exile in order to have a professional future. There are also their families, those whom they so much aspire to protect with legislative reforms as we discussed yesterday in this House. They are families who have striven to give them the best education, believing that with that they guaranteed their future, and now they see them leaving. There are also the young people who stay here, Minister, but still have no hope, because they are obliged not to be able to have an independent life, to continue to depend on their family. There are young people who are unemployed, but there are also young people who find work that does not allow them to live with dignity. There are young people who no longer want to follow, young people who no longer have any money or money to continue training. Madam Minister, this is the result of your management: precariousness. This is the result of their labour reform. This is the inheritance that you are going to leave to an entire generation of young Spaniards. The best-formed generation, the generation in which we have invested the most, is the one we leave on this journey. It is a generation that moves in a trilogy: unemployment, precarious employment and economic exile. This trilogy is the result of another, three areas in which they have based their youth employment policies and which, in terms of the data and the reality I describe, are a real failure - their labour reform, entrepreneurship laws and the youth guarantee programme. Your labor reform is the worst of all the evils and damage that you are going to leave to the Spaniards after your passage through the government and, as you know, repealing it will be the main commitment of the socialists just to get to the government in the next legislature. [[Applauds]] It is the young people, together with older workers, who are suffering more clearly the consequences of this labour reform, which precariouss employment, gives a unilateral power to the employer - among other things, in the setting of wages and working hours - and also enshrines the rightless and free dismissal. It is a reform that has turned mileurist contracts into more precarious ones with wages of misery and that do not generate any kind of benefit. The indefinite contract of support to entrepreneurs has enabled, above all, the dismissal free and without rights during the first year. Another consequence of their management and I would like to point out that those young people who are leaving our country for more than 90 days to train or to seek employment are dependent on their benefits and also on health care. The second of the issues of his trilogy are the laws of entrepreneurship and the generation of youth employment, another fraud, one more of his Government. It is legislation that leads to entrepreneurship without putting in place the pillars that guarantee the domestic demand and the credit needed to develop an economic activity with a minimum guarantee of success and which, moreover, is also causing great legal uncertainty. It is legislation that, under a supposed stimulus to the recruitment and development of dual vocational training, retweets training contracts over and over again, and all it is getting is to condemn young people to be eternal apprentices; successive chains of training and learning contracts in different activities that lead young people to be so up to the age of 30. Thirdly, I have to highlight the failure in the management of the youth guarantee programme, and I say in the management because, as you know, it was a programme driven by socialists in Europe, which was provided with an economic budget so that you could develop it in the Government of Spain. They have invaded the powers of the autonomous communities, which have deprived them of more than 50 per cent of this funding, and have been inept in the implementation of this programme. I'll explain myself, ladies and gentlemen. They have been inept because they have lost a very valuable year for those young people who might have had a chance. A whole bureaucratic circuit outside of public employment services has been developed since 2014 to see how young people could take up this programme without having been able to give them the right answers. However, after a year, by the end of 2014 we had only 20,660 registered - currently around 30,000 - but we have not reached those more than 800,000 unemployed under the age of 25 to whom this programme was directed. It was a good programme, with financial resources, that you have not had the political capacity to implement nor with which to give a response to young people. This is unsustainable, these measures are not reaching youth. The problem goes on, the hopelessness goes on, Minister. It is not possible to get out of the crisis without having our best human capital. If we do not offer future alternatives to young people in our country, we will be leaving our country with no future alternatives. I think it's time to try to give an answer. We are working on initiatives that we will bring to the Government, but above all we are working on alternatives and proposals to bring them to a majority of Spaniards, whose confidence we hope to regain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I am grateful for the presence of young Spaniards in the rostrum so that they can learn about the constructive debate that will take place this morning in the Congress of Deputies. Madam Member, the absolute priority of this government is employment, especially employment among young people, because it is those who have had it most difficult during the labour market crisis. Therefore, young people have been, are and will always be our priority. Young people need us, they need us all to work hard for their opportunities. What young people do not need is for criticism to be made only by looking for culprits, especially when responsibilities have been assumed, without offering proposals to facilitate their return to the labour market. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we need young people. Young people are our future, but for them to be, they have to keep in mind; that is what this government has been defending since the first day. I'm not going to get into that irresponsible and unproductive game of facing up to what we've done and haven't done to each other, but I want to mention a reality to you. When I assumed the Employment and Social Security portfolio with great honour and responsibility at the end of 2011, when we arrived at the Government, there was already a youth unemployment rate in my country, in Spain, above 50%, and others had just had government responsibilities. The youth unemployment rate had already increased threefold in the crisis during that period prior to that of this Government. Between 2007 and 2011, more than two million jobs were destroyed among children under 30 years of age. That is what we find when we arrive at the Government at the end of December 2011. You too have spoken of the young people who emigrate, who leave our borders. The migration balance among young people under the age of 30 was already negative since 2008. According to INE migration statistics, in the period 2008-2011 the migration balance of young people born in Spain, aged between fifteen and twenty-nine years, was raised to more than 36,000 young people. It is therefore clear that young people have not started leaving our country since 2012, unfortunately. They left Spain since 2008 looking for opportunities that our country had not given them since. You therefore speak to me frivolously, even of a report called The External Mobility of Spanish and Spanish Today, which I have here and which the Socialist and Valerian Government have commissioned. [[Show a report]] By the way, he paid 30,000 euros for this report on our country's external mobility, and I am always held irresponsibly responsible for that responsibility. This report shows, Madam Member, that the situation of Spanish young people abroad was known to the Socialist Government, but you do not realize that they did nothing by knowing it, as I say, for a report for which they paid more than 30,000 euros to a well-known Spanish university. So, things in their place. We will also point out truths like fists this morning. I came here this morning to say what we have done, responsibly, thinking of giving that one of every two young people who, when we got to the government, wanted to work and couldn't do it. Madam Member, clearly, we have not lost a minute of our time. A month and a half of being in government, a labor reform was approved, to which you have referred, and which, by the way, is giving many opportunities to young people. We launched an indefinite contract to support entrepreneurs, with specific incentives for young people. Most of these contracts, 40%, have been concluded with young people under 40 years of age. It is therefore giving stable employment opportunities to many young Spaniards at the start of recovery. We made a change in the training and learning contract, so that young Spaniards who needed to be qualified had the opportunity to work and at the same time learn and acquire new skills and skills; a 32% increase in that contract in 2014 and higher increases in previous years. You tell me about wages, and you should know, and if you do not ask in your parliamentary group, that they are not imposed by the government; wages are discussed in collective bargaining between the company's representatives and the workers' representatives. So don't put more responsibilities on me than I do. Decree-Law 4/2013 was adopted in 2013 on measures to support entrepreneurs and stimulate growth and job creation. These measures included those involving the entrepreneurship and youth employment strategy. This strategy was the first major social pact of this legislature. From the first day we started working with social partners and the autonomous communities to put in place a plan to provide opportunities for training, practice, entrepreneurship and employment for young people under the age of 30 in this country. There were 100 measures taken, for the first time in Spain, thinking about young people and with a great economic endowment. Madam Member, thanks to the efforts of everyone, thanks to the efforts of all Spanish society, the autonomous communities and the social partners, there are already 390,000 young people who have a job opportunity, either on their own or on their own. [[Applauds]] It was a strategy open to society, to which more than eight hundred companies and public entities were incorporated, with additional resources of more than EUR 800 million. We know that much remains to be done, but from the first day we began to work for it. At the same time, we are working to give young people opportunities in Europe as well. You've talked about the youth guarantee. Well, thanks to the battle of the President of the Government and the Government of Spain, more than 1.8 billion euros will come to our country between 2014 and 2015 for young people in the European Youth Guarantee Programme; in addition to the above, it will accelerate the transit to the opportunities of many young Spanish people. We are working responsibly with the Autonomous Communities. In recent days we have had two good news in the area of youth guarantee. The first is something we have given the battle in Europe, that the pre-financing of this youth guarantee should be raised from 1% to 30% so that the autonomous communities could devote resources more directly to young people's opportunities. Well, that higher pre-financing was announced two months ago by the European Commission and I tell the honourable Members that yesterday the Member States supported this 30% pre-financing for the youth guarantee in Brussels. That is why €300 million will come this year for all public administrations to continue to give opportunities to young people. It is also important to mention that at the sectoral conference last week, by unanimity of all the autonomous communities, we raise the maximum age of access to the youth guarantee, equal to the entrepreneurship and employment strategy, up to and including the twenty-nine years so that more young people can benefit from these opportunities. There are already more than 40,000 young people enrolled in the youth guarantee system, and we continue to make every effort with the autonomous communities to make it more important for them to become part of this great European youth project. In the coming days we will establish an agreement with all the offices and chambers of commerce Spain -118 - so that through them also the young people enrolled in this project receive training and entrepreneurship programs, because the important thing is that they have opportunities as soon as possible. From the very first moment we've done a lot of things. We have put in place measures to promote recruitment, and they are giving opportunities. These include the flat rate of EUR 100 for stable recruitment, hence quality employment, from which 235,363 people have benefited in Spain, of which 53,000 are young Spaniards. Now, that flat fee of 100 euros for indefinite recruitment becomes 500 euros of minimum contribution-free, which will continue to give young people opportunities. We have also launched the young entrepreneurship rate with an additional bonus of six months, to favour young people enrolled in the youth guarantee. We have launched the €50 fee for entrepreneurs, so that young people will be discharged as self-employed; of them, 132,000 young people under the age of 30 are benefiting from that fee. It has increased among those under the age of 30 by 10% who are self-employed, thanks to these measures that we have put in place. We have taken many other measures to promote young people's opportunities as reflected in the entrepreneurship and youth employment strategy. We are now doing another important thing: to change - tomorrow we bring it to this House - the model of vocational training for employment, so that the training that young people need to gain access to better jobs, better wages and higher quality jobs is an opportunity for them. We are going to make a specific call for children under 30 years of age, including concrete training actions, for EUR 41 million, because we know that training and employment go hand in hand, are closely related. You were talking to me about young people abroad; of course we have remembered them, those who had come out before and some who have continued to come out now, about the emigration of young people. We remember those young people who unfortunately came out of our country looking for opportunities because of the crisis. Well, we have put in place programmes in the Ministry to enable young people outside the Ministry to have training and practical opportunities, as well as to promote entrepreneurship, as well as programmes to facilitate their return to our country, with specific subsidies through the Ministry of State for Immigration and Emigration. Your Honor, I want to make something very clear to you. The government is working from day one so that the young talent fleeing the crisis will return to Spain as soon as possible, and for that we need to find them first in Spain opportunities. With everything we are doing from the Government, we are moving in the right direction, we are beginning to see the first results. The EPA last quarter of last year - the last known - indicates that in Spain there are already 120,000 young people less unemployed, under the age of thirty, than when we arrived at the government in 2011. Does that suit us? On the contrary, this encourages us to continue working intensively for young people. We cannot be conformists having the youth unemployment rate so important that we have in Spain, we cannot be conformists having many young people who lost their jobs and opportunities in the crisis. Nor can we accept the criticisms you have made from this rostrum when it was a socialist government that promoted garbage contracts for young people in the 1980s; when it was a socialist government that made the endless chaining of temporary contracts, which stopped a government of the People's Party; when it was a socialist government that allowed non-working practices in companies without social protection, which changed this popular government of Mariano Rajoy. Therefore, lessons in the field of quality in employment among young people, none, honourable Member. By the way, today in Spain employment is also created among young people, yet I summarize in two words what the socialist government did for young people in all the legislatures it has ruled: unemployment and precariousness. Your Honor, we are all working for employment; and I would also like it to be with the proposals of the Socialist Party, which should at least be responsible because it left two million young people in the gutter when it ruled this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u153	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u154	Madam Minister, I said I was going to come up here constructively. I must admit that you are faithful to your style and have risen as usual, talking to us about the previous Government rather than talking to us about your Government; you also do so as if you had just arrived at the ministry, and I remind you that we are already taking stock of the legislature and that you are about to leave the Government. [[Applauds]] In his style he's disqualifying the opponent. You called me frivolous. I'll tell you what seems like a frivolity to me. It seems to me a frivolity - I do not say that Mr Rajoy is frivolous - that when he was leader of the opposition he would leave at a door of an unemployment office, at a door of the INEM, to say that when he arrived he would lower unemployment, playing with the pain and with the hope of so many millions of Spaniards who were already suffering unemployment at that time. [[Shows a newspaper clipping]] [[Applauds]] That's a frivolity. Do you know what a frivolity is, Minister? A frivolity is to fill the lighthouses in electoral campaign by telling the castellanomanchegos: if you are looking for employment, vote for PP. [[Show a picture]] [[Applauds]] Do you know what a frivolity is? To say in an election rally that the PP's ballot is a contract of employment This is a frivolity, Minister. [[Show another photograph]] [[Applauds]] I'll give you a piece of information. I will not discuss what was when we were ruling the socialists and what is now, because I would have data to beat him up, what I don't have is time. According to Eurostat, at the end of 2014, 53.2% youth unemployment; at the end of 2011, 46.2%. Data, just that. As for the socialist proposals, which is what I wanted to bring you here today, Minister, we want a rescue plan, as I said, for the recovery of talent, which we will put into practice in the motion that we will be presenting next week, a system of aid for companies to hire Spanish young people with an average or higher qualification who are working abroad. We want to encourage the incorporation of young researchers into both public and private research, especially that public that is dependent on you and that you have carried out, taking over the university and research in this country. We want to regain that talent and reintegrate it into our university and private research. We want to design new mechanisms for young people to obtain tax benefits, rather than exemptions, benefits of access to credit for middle- and higher-skilled young people. We will propose measures to make this youth guarantee plan effective. How can you be proud that there are 40,000 registered, to whom you have given no reply, when there are 800,000 potential beneficiaries of this programme? We will also put in place measures to strengthen and make more flexible the educational and post-compulsory offer of young people who left the education system very early and are now unemployed. Your Honor, there are many proposals that, as I say, we are developing in a programme that we want to offer the Spaniards in order to achieve a social majority that we can represent with a political majority in this House. He was talking to me again about labor reform. I don't think he's aware of what his job reform has meant. I already asked him one day to do the exercise of entering Infojobs or any of these pages and see what job offers our young people or any Spanish are getting when he aspires to find a job. These offers are - from yesterday, make the effort one day and look at them -: an electronic technician in telecommunications - is for an engineer - 450 euros. Part-time contracts, contracts they don't give to live. Another, for an advertiser: 600 euros - I speak raw -. Another, for a waiter working throughout the week and weekends matches: 600 euros gross. Do you think this is enough to live with dignity? This labour reform deserves to be repealed as soon as possible. A job is not a number in statistics, a job, a job is the tool that people have to live with dignity, and you have broken that social contract, a situation that we will immediately repeal upon our arrival, as I say, to the next government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, for the young people all the effort we make is little. The important thing is that we continue to pool opportunities for this, and I would be very grateful if we could get to know the constructive proposals, but not for the next election programme. Bring them to the House and put them on the table, because you have three years of criticism and looking guilty, when, unfortunately, because you did nothing during the crisis, 2 million young people had to go to unemployment. You contradict yourself, but basically you give this government the reason. What you've been talking about and what you've been explaining through that Internet portal refers to employment, greater or lesser employment, but you've been talking about employment, so you're not talking about unemployment because we're in a different reality. What it does not give you to live a young woman, honourable Member, is to be on the lists of unemployment because it is one of the 2 million that the Socialist Government has sent to those lists of unemployment. [[Applauds]] Young people are now beginning to find employment and I want it to be better jobs and better paid, for which we will also work with the social partners; for this we will train them better, to which we will dedicate the youth guarantee and the strategy of entrepreneurship and employment and we will support them from the first day, but with us, with this People's Party government, young people begin to find opportunities, because it is not the same thing that unemployment goes up, and I have already told you that there are 120,000 young people who are less unemployed, under the age of 30, than when we arrive at the government. We have to recover a large number of young people more than you left at the stand because 2 million jobs were destroyed when you were ruling in the previous legislature. That is the tragedy of the young, who the socialists left them in unemployment and in the greatest ruin that a person can have. [[Applauds]] That is the tragedy of young people, but for that they have here a government that has made reforms. Does something happen to you with the labour reform, a reform that is creating jobs for the first time in Spain with moderate economic growth, which has made it possible for the first time, Madam Member, in 2014 to have 434,000 net jobs in Spain, after the whole crisis, a reform that will allow more than 500,000 jobs to be created this year, so one million jobs in two years, and if the economy continues to grow at cruising speed we will be able to have between this and the next legislature 3 million more people working in Spain? As a result, it is an employment reform, a stable employment reform that is also favouring indefinite recruitment, a reform that is giving young people opportunities to start finding that job that you denied them with your policies. Of course we're going to keep working for the young! Of course we will continue to take measures in favour of young people! Of course, for young people, hope lies in governments that do good management, create wealth, create jobs and support entrepreneurs! That is the difference: with you young people were unemployed and precarious. They have jobs and opportunities with us, and on that path we will continue to work. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u157	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u158	We moved on to the motions that were not seen yesterday - I remind you again that tomorrow will be voted on Thursday - and, first of all, to the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the position of the Government on the consequences of the transatlantic agreement for trade and investment between Europe and the United States. [[Mrs. Ariztegui]] Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Saturday millions of people protested in hundreds of cities in the United States and Europe - and also in Euskal Herria - protesting against the biggest attack on democracy since the Second World War, against the TTIP, that trade treaty that the European Commission negotiates with the United States behind dark glass, under a secrecy denounced by hundreds of organizations all over the world, in fact, a new European economic constitution imposed by multinationals; a treaty that, starting from the kidnapping and attack on the political and economic sovereignty of States - and let us not say who we aspire to be - applies in Europe American trade conditions with the sole objective of reducing the costs of transnationals' businesses, which keep proposing the steps to be taken to end the regulations that bother them. Let us not forget that 84% of the advisers in the negotiations in the United States and the vast majority in the European Union represent the large industry, basically large multinational groups. It is a treaty that follows the script of cuts, loss of rights and misery for the majority, while a few, little by little, increase their wealth to shameful levels. But now we are talking about unimaginable levels, because the more we know of your data - hardly and with droplets, it is so - the more we start to tremble. It is an insult to democracy, in short. The house of our social and economic system has been suffering for years, losing color, part of the roof, but the TTIP is the termite that directly attacks the social, productive and ecological structure of this building based on rights and regulations achieved after years of struggle of citizens and workers. I will recall again that this agreement wants to erase from a pen any regulation that affects vital issues of all people, of all of us. For example, where will the rules for the protection of health, the environment and consumers be? Do you really believe that the large food industry, the large distribution will not impose its rules, that the American risk principle will replace the principle of European prevention, without health conditions or prior control, or food garbage for everyone and Damocles' sword from the food crises on our heads? It is a genuine ethnocide for social and environmentally sustainable agriculture and a paradise, instead, for industrial agriculture, devastating for society and the environment, that is hormones, antibiotics, in the transgenic production will flood our shelves without we can do anything to avoid it, because our institutions are prevented from legislating to guarantee public rights and services. It's really terrible. About the environment, what do you say? How do you think the American chemical industries are doing? With long teeth, waiting for European environmental regulation to get to its level, so low. And about labor relations and public services, more of the same: lowering and lowering rights and open doors to more and more privatization. If the Basque or Navarro Parliament legitimately approved, for example, a ban on fracking, or if we had a minimum wage or prevention rules to respect, from production to consumption of any product, what would happen? That it would be a bureaucratic barrier and, as such, abolished, and they would take their rabbit out of the joke, the trick of this treatment: the ISDS, by which three international judges would decide - in the face of the complaint of any corporation that felt affected in their business - the cost and the fine to pay to the company, that is to say, the sovereignty of the States and, of course, our framework of decision increasingly and more distant, because it is no longer a question of amending unnecessary regulations to avoid bureaucracy, but of preventing democratic parliaments from making new laws. If that's not the end of democracy, what is it? You know that no more work, more employment or more growth derives from this treaty, you know that. Experience and number of independent studies have shown that TTIP would destroy many jobs, entail an annual loss of income per worker, as well as a decline in GDP in all countries. The same would happen in the workplace, especially in terms of wages, safety and health at work, because this agreement will not force the United States to incorporate the labour rights that have been recognized for decades in Europe, but on the contrary, will bring down standards in Europe. There are examples. After twenty years of Nafta, it is recognized that for Mexico it was a terrible mistake considering any economic and social indicator; also, the United States has lost 700,000 jobs. Influential analysts claim that it has deepened inequalities and has been a mechanism for transferring a huge amount of wealth from the lower and middle classes to the 1% bank accounts. In other words, free trade does not imply growth. Citing Piketty, for example, the concentration of wealth in a few hands has been greater than ever since the Depression of 1929. This gap is inevitable and will continue to grow because the economic system is rigged in favour of capital and against work. Either we do something now to reverse the trend, or wealth will continue to concentrate. This agreement is a qualitative leap in that path of the economic model in which large companies become richer. Banks are given more power to enter new markets and the inequality gap continues to grow as European Union policies turn the Mediterranean into a mass grave. It is time to put people and their living conditions at the centre, instead of the market and money. That is why, because there is nothing positive in our view for European citizenship, because it is a direct attack on our sovereignty, Amaiur says no to this treaty. Through this motion we want to make an elementary exercise of democracy, something that the drivers of this agreement are preventing and on what we must all portray here: to end the secrecy of this treaty. We want to bring to light that vampire who wants to suck our blood, that there is clear and true information without any restrictions, that all sectors and administrations concerned can participate in the debate, that the negotiation is given light and stenographers in the seat of the European Parliament, that there is not a step backwards in citizens' rights and that, if an agreement was finally reached, it would be subject to referendum or consultation with citizens as the highest expression of sovereignty of the people, because we know that if the people speak...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u160	Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u161	I'm done, Madam President. ... because we know that if the people speak, they will say no to TTIP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Ariztegui. An amendment has been tabled by the Socialist Group. For your defence, Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u163	We have already discussed this treaty several times in this House, in plenary myself twice, I think I remember, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs also a couple of times and also in the Joint Committee for the European Union, and I do not want to reopen a debate which I think is rather narrow. I do not think this is the place to hold a debate on international trade today. It would take a long time and it is not my group that is going to speak out against international trade. It is not a debate that needs to be considered if we are to have a model of open, dynamic, commercial and prosperous societies in order to sustain just societies with models of well-being in which equal opportunities are guaranteed, but I do think it is appropriate to recall a series of data to take into account what international trade and trade openness have brought about in this country. Mrs. Ariztegui, the province with the richest per capita income in this country is Álava, the second is Guipúzcoa, the fourth is Vizcaya and the fifth is mine, Navarra. These four provinces are also the ones with the greatest external opening and it is no coincidence. Navarra exports 38% of its gross domestic product and the Basque Country as a whole 32%, while Álava is the largest. It is these four provinces that double the percentage of exports compared to the Spanish average and it is no coincidence that they are also the richest provinces, although there are other historical or industrial reasons that now do not come to light. Moreover, our country's gross domestic product increased in the first ten years of accession to the European Communities by 56% and Spain as a whole narrowed the GDP gap, the so-called real convergence with the European Union, by 20 points in those ten years. They are all trade-induced effects, which, of course, require just and progressive regulation and policies, policies that my group has always advocated. In the case that it brings us, we are talking about a possible agreement that is being negotiated that can generate many benefits in terms of employment and income growth for both Europe and the United States. We are well aware - the International Monetary Fund has said - that it will be very difficult to recover income and employment levels before the crisis if we continue along this path of austerity and economic policies of the European right, which do not invest in innovation, which do not invest in human capital, which do not invest in industry and which require new dynamism, and one of them is trade, which of course requires regulation. Many times we have already said here - we have even reached a motion with the United Left Group - that the Socialist Group is not going to allow a step backwards - I say this slowly, not a step backwards - in the area of environmental, labour and social protection in the European Union when negotiating this treaty. The amendment that we are presenting clearly marks the red lines of my party and my group here and in Brussels, because international trade is the exclusive competence of the European Union and it is good that this is the case, because we are a common market, we are a unit of economic cohesion that has cost so many centuries of struggle and that has generated, as I said, unknown increases in employment, income and quality of life. You and I, Mrs Ariztegui, who are, as I say, border crossings, we know very well what it was like to cross the mud in the 1970s, to pass through Irun or Dantxarinea to France, and what it is now. Then we crossed a brutal economic frontier that no longer exists. It now exists in other parts of the world, as you have said, in the Mediterranean, and we must end it, but that elimination of the economic border between Spain and France, in the muda that we crossed so many times when we were little those who are from that part of Spain - we remember very well - is thanks to international trade. Now, red lines? Many: transparency, appearances. My amendment reflects the position of the Socialist Group in recent months. Of course, we want impact studies in the trade sectors. We want the President of the Government to appear. He said that the other day at the hearing on the European Council and he did not come. We want labour, social and environmental standards to be guaranteed; there is a specific chapter on labour legislation. We would also like to see a mechanism for resolving labour disputes, without social dumping, in place. We want the extra-judicial dispute resolution mechanism to be excluded, because both areas have a judicial system mature enough to be able to do so through the courts. We want data to be protected, the European cultural identity preserved; of course, we want to fight tax evasion together, tax havens. All this must be in the agreement, this and many more things that are reflected in our amendment, which is the position my group stands for here, in the Commission and in the European Parliament, everywhere. Not a step back, but in favour of a just agreement that will enhance employment and prosperity in both environments. With regard to your motion, we cannot vote in favour of item 5, but if you ask for a separate vote by points, we will be able to support the first four. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u164	Thank you, Mr. Moscoso. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ariztegui, reading the content of the motion that you bring to your debate and vote, I must say that I agree essentially, although you may understand that what is essential to me is secondary to your parliamentary group. The Basque Group believes that the process of negotiating the transatlantic free trade and investment agreement is a key issue for our economic and political future and is developing in an untransparent manner. The negotiations, the agreements already reached, the people who have to defend the negotiations on the European side must be known by the institutions and by the citizens. This will require - and we agree with this - the establishment of an institutional participatory mechanism to discuss the issues in order to establish the positions that we consider relevant in view of the many negotiations that are under way. It is certainly not an easy issue, but an appearance by President Rajoy in this House to explain to us the state of play on the issue of negotiations, progress, what remains to be negotiated, etc., could be a good starting point. From there we could move it to other institutional levels via inter-territorial commission or other mechanisms. However, I must point out that we do not share many of the arguments and fears arising from the preamble to the initiative and its intervention in this House today. To assume that it will be the multinationals who mark the rules of the game and condition the negotiations seems to me to be a bit excessive. The multinationals - unfortunately and by their own definition - know how to move everywhere by jumping the barriers that already exist. The agreement does not have to be a neoliberal agreement that sacrifices democracies to the market. We cannot and must not fall into this discourse and we must prevent this from happening. Europe has to defend social progress and consolidated public policies in the areas of pensions, education, health and so many other things, and ultimately defend our idiosyncrasy and characteristics, and in this we must make our commitment and work. I insist, the agreement does not necessarily imply a precariousness or a worsening of working conditions. We'll have to avoid it. On the contrary, the agreement should be seen as a great opportunity to open up new markets and businesses. I know that in this sense they are supporting a multitude of businesses in Euskadi, who observe in the agreement an opportunity to sell abroad, create wealth and create employment. Doing things right doesn't have to be afraid of competition. We must take advantage of the opportunities it offers us. Experience also tells us that opening up markets and reducing a priori barriers and tariffs are positive for the economy. The integration of the Spanish economy into the European Union was an important impetus for economic growth and job creation. The highest growth in recent years occurred precisely in the five-year period 1986-1991 as a result of the opening up of these markets. However, there are risks, Mrs Ariztegui, it is true, they are real and we must try to avoid them at all costs. That is why it is very good to put light and stenographers on the negotiation, to set out clearly the red lines and starting points of the European position and to establish the mechanisms of participation in such a way that the agreement is that of everyone and does not respond only to the interests of the powerful. We believe in the Basque Group that, essentially, the five points you raise, relating to information, transparency and participation, are positive and we will vote for them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u166	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Plural Left Group, Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. The concept of free market or self-regulated free market is actually a utopia, that said Karl Polanyi and that we keep in our group. We understand that the economy never operates in a vacuum, always operates within an institutional framework and therefore there are always certain regulations, rules, customs, laws, constitutions or international treaties that regulate the limits of the margin in the economic sphere. This has always been the case, and it was also the case when the Maastricht Treaty was debated many years ago in this House; a number of subsequent treaties were also discussed, although not voted on, on many occasions: the Stability and Growth Pact, the Treaty of New Governance, even the failed European Constitution, which was a referendum in the Spanish State, but which finally failed at European level because of the refusal of many countries to accept a certain institutionalisation of what the economy should be like. Then came the Treaty of Lisbon and ultimately the application of that same content in another different format. In short, we have lived for quite a few years a constitutionalization, a new constituent process led by the economic and political elites who have designed an architecture that prevents in practice any alternative to neoliberalism and that leads to some paranoia, legitimate and unfortunately paradoxical, that even Social Democratic governments have not had the capacity to implement their own policies because that institutional design has prevented it. The last step of all these designs and of this constituent process led by the right, against which our group has always consistently been against, is the free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union, and, as we know when people are allowed to feel, sometimes people are against it, as happened in France, the Netherlands and Ireland with the failed European constitution, at this time what is being done is to design it behind the back of the citizenry and what we have is a free trade agreement from which we are largely unaware of their information and which we only have some thanks to leaks or to pressure that allows MEPs to have access for an hour to a room from which they cannot even take any kind of information, such as the photocopy of a small paper that includes something relevant to study. Therefore, that is not a democracy. This is more like other models of government and, above all, it is like an oligarchic elite leader who constitutes things outside of citizenship. That is why this free trade agreement goes far beyond the economic issues, on which we could discuss and we have already discussed at least three times in this plenary and several times more in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, where we have said that it is not simply a free market problem or not, but a problem of a productive structure, that, as we open up our borders to our farmers in the face of fundamentally expansive but highly technologicalised agriculture like that of the United States, we will have sectors that are going to be profoundly deteriorated. This is like the metaphor of the 19th-century German economist List, who said that in the end there are countries that are modernizing, developing, climbing the ladder and, when they are above all already being the most competitive countries, kick the ladder and ask others to try to climb, when there is no ladder to do so. That is ultimately the essence of free trade in our developed world, and that is why the neoliberal ideological theses that go behind everything that is known in this treaty seem to us to be a real barbarity. It is an attack not only on democracy, not only on the productive structure and development potential of our economy, of European economies and of the economies particularly in southern Europe. In short, it is a democratic attack because it turns its back on citizens, it is done, as always in recent years, institutionalizing a way of understanding politics and its relationship with the economy and, therefore, we will support this motion, because it is consistent and in line with what we think of the treaty. We find it very important to emphasize the aspect of the referendum because this free trade agreement will probably not be adopted in the coming years because the Greek government, fortunately, formed by leaders who are up to the time to represent the citizenry, is going to oppose it. However, on the day when unfortunately the possibility comes that this treaty can be adopted, let us hope that it will be done through a referendum so that it will be the people who decide freely, and no legal crap will be done and it will be done through the parliaments themselves, which often do not end up reflecting what people think. We saw that in France, we saw it in the Netherlands, in that failed European Constitution. Let's hope we don't see it again, first, because it doesn't come out and, second, because if it comes out, people say in a referendum that it doesn't. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u168	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ariztegui, allow me one comment as a comment: one thing is to see, hear or read your inquiry or your speech today in plenary and, another very different thing, is to read the motion before us. An interpellation the other day and an intervention today that puts on the table their radical and energetic rejection of this treaty: threat, "ethnicide", coup d'état to the agricultural sector, greater attack on democracy and a long et cetera, but in the end when we read the motion does not appear. That is why we are surprised at the motion that we are going to vote today because it is a motion that, despite all the narratives that have been expressed from this rostrum, runs away from establishing a position on the future of the agreement and proposes a motion calling for meetings with the affected sectors - we agree -; a monographic debate in this House - we agree -; information on the proposals that the Government makes in the negotiations in all sectors - we agree -; meetings with the autonomous communities to inform them, listen to them and coordinate proposals to provide their sovereignty - we agree - and, finally, to request a referendum at European level where there are also certain doubts and reservations due to the lack of information on the content of the agreement and the suitability or not of a referendum. In any case, our group is always in favour of participatory democracy. What does Convergence and Union think? What's our position? We base it on five axes. First, information. Convergence i Unió has requested more information from both the European Commission and the Spanish State. We want to analyse this agreement deeply, to know the details, to have the guarantee that it will not question our welfare state and to see what concrete impact it has on the economy, in this Catalan case, and its different sectors. Secondly, it defends our model of welfare state. In line with what Commissioner Malmström has already said, the economic benefits of a treaty cannot go to the detriment of the European social model. Convergence and Union will not give its support to any treaty that would lead to a setback in our welfare model. Third, to analyse sectoral impacts. Fourth, we're not going to do catastrophism. We believe that this agreement, if properly negotiated, can be positive for the Catalan economy and especially for SMEs. Therefore, we will not add to catastrophic attitudes or premature blockades and will not position ourselves until we know exactly the defects of the treaty. Fifthly, we will promote the debate within Catalan society, encouraging the involvement and participation of Catalan society in the social consultation process and in the presentations and observations on the treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that fortunately this is not a treaty that depends on the parliamentary majority of one group or another here in Madrid. [[The Lord]] It is not a bilateral agreement between Spain and the United States, but depends on the ratification of each of the twenty-eight parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. This reality allows us to state that we have deep doubts that it should be ratified if it is a negative agreement for Europe or for European citizens by parliaments with deep democratic roots and defenders of the European welfare state. This agreement has to be transparent or it will not be. That is why we are also taking this opportunity today to ask the government to start bringing information about the TTPI to Congress; information that cannot be limited to what we can already obtain from the European Parliament, but must be extended to the impact analyses of agreements on the reality of our productive sectors within the territory of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u170	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 June 2013, this House seemed to understand for the most part - when it adopted a non-legislative proposal supported by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, the Catalan Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group - that the possibility of reaching a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States satisfactory for both sides would encourage the growth of our economies and thus job creation. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Convergence and Union]] This House approved this non-legislative proposal to support the rapid start of negotiations on an ambitious and mutually beneficial free trade agreement. I do not think anyone is to be hid from the fact that this possible free trade agreement is of great strategic importance to our country, as it is one of its main potential beneficiaries. It seems that this free trade agreement could bring great advantages. At least this is understood by many economic analysts and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises; not by the large multinationals, ladies and gentlemen, but by the more than 15,000 Spanish companies exporting to the United States of America. Spain would be the fourth country to be included in the negotiation that would create the most jobs and the fourth country in which per capita income would increase the most in the long term. However, I am going to do as Mr Moscoso and I am not going to stop in the economic aspects, because I believe that this motion - the spokesman of Convergence i Unió has emphasized it in a certain way - is a trap motion: it viscerally attacks the agreement - perhaps because it involves the United States of America - when in the end in its literal tenor comes to say other things. To reject this motion would be enough to stick to the reality of the facts, but we already know that some are not in the mood for reality to spoil their discourse and the campaign orchestrated by very marked ideological political groups against this agreement. After each of the rounds of negotiations - we took eight and last Monday began the ninth - the European Union has held meetings with representatives of civil society: trade unions, NGOs, consumer organisations, professional organisations, companies, etc. The Government of Spain has maintained a continuous communication and contact agenda by participating in international conferences in March 2014; seminars on the treaty in June 2014; public events at the headquarters of the European Parliament in November 2014; other events organized by the Consumers and Users Organisation or the Spanish Confederation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in February 2015; public debates organized by EU delegations in March 2015; the information campaign launched with the European Commission - in addition to all the information on the website of both the Government and the European Union - and the multiple contacts held between the various ministries with all those affected, including the Autonomous Communities. This is a reality. I insist, reality may spoil their speech, but that's reality. A specific parliamentary debate is called for. This is the tenth time that this issue has been dealt with in the Spanish Parliament and we are prepared to continue to deal with it, of course. It has been discussed five times in plenary and five in the Commission, including appearances such as that of the Secretary of State for Trade, including debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs; including appearances such as that of Commissioner Malmström, Commissioner for Trade, in a joint session of the Joint Committee of the European Union and the Committee on Economic Affairs held just a month ago. There are ten occasions, and that is enough to detract from the claim that this debate is not taking place. Not only is it brought in, but it will continue to bring in as many times as necessary. The President of the Government announced a forthcoming debate with the Secretary of State for Trade on this issue on a case-by-case basis in June. It is enough to read the Commission's guidelines to the negotiating team that it participates in these contacts on behalf of the European Union to know that it maintains that the Union's basic regulations on food, health, environment and labour rights will not be negotiated. It appears in the eighth point of that guideline that it gives to the negotiators. Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Malmström, in her appearance here just a month ago, said that the treaty will not undermine our levels of environmental protection or food security and that we will only cooperate with the United States on regulatory issues where we have the same objectives. We are not going to change the rules on hormones in meat or on genetically modified organisms. - It's the literal transcript of what Commissioner Malmström said. I know that for some nothing is enough, they also find the democratic procedure that has been followed insufficient. The procedure will necessarily be approved - some speakers have also referred to it - first by the European Council, which includes the democratic Member States of the Union and, secondly, by the European Parliament. Since the legitimacy of this Parliament is absolute and no one can question it, this process offers democratic guarantees and no one can say that it is going to be left without an opportunity to express itself in this regard. The European Union, which I sincerely believe and many of us share, which is an example of democracy, cooperation, respect for the environment and respect for civil rights and workers' rights, has begun in a free trade treaty. What we are convinced of, Your Honor, is that we are not going to fall into this motion because what you question is the essence of our democratic institutions. On this side and on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean are gathered the most democratic countries in the world. Our democracies, those of the European Union, and American democracy on the other side of the Atlantic are all within the 50 most democratic countries in the world, to be looked at according to the indices or ravines of democracy that you want to find. That's what worries them and bothers them. We're not gonna fall into that trap. We are modestly convinced that if the treaty goes ahead, it will be after a transparent, democratic process that defends the interests of the citizens and workers of the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. Mrs Ariztegui, you have tabled an amendment, can you tell me what your position is on it?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u173	We do not accept it and ask for the point vote, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u174	That will be done, Mrs Ariztegui. Thank you very much. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY UNION, ON THE PROPOSALS OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE CONDITION OF NATIONAL AND CRIME CLEANNESS AGAINST HUMANITY COMMITTED BY THE TERRORIST STATUS AND ITS POLITICAL ENTERPRISE, TO GIVE THE NEED FOR SATISFACTION AND RECOGNIZATION TO THE VICTIMS OF THE VICTIMS OF THESE VIOLATIONS MANIFIED TO THE INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND SATISFACER THE INALIDABLE RIGHT TO KNOW THE TRUTH. [[File number 173/000206]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u175	Motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy on the purposes of the Government in relation to the condemnation of national cleansing and crimes against humanity committed by the terrorist gang ETA and its political fabric, in order to give the necessary satisfaction and recognition to the victims of these gross violations of international human rights standards and to satisfy the inalienable right to know the truth. This motion is going to be defended by Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u176	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I had the opportunity to recall last week in defence of the question put to the Government, this motion is the result of an institutional statement by the Navarro Parliament on 17 March. What the Navarro Parliament has done, in our view, is that it should continue to do so by the national Parliament, that it should follow that path, a positive path of recognition of the truth, of recognition of the victims, on 17 March, which we all proclaim as a good day. I hope that today will be the day, or tomorrow, when we vote, that we follow the example given to us by the Navarro Parliament on 17 March. Ladies and gentlemen, when ETA's deadly attacks stopped on 20 October 2011 following its ceasefire statement, the numbers were staggering: 858 dead, more than 10,000 frustrated murders and thousands of extortioned and forcibly displaced people outside of Euskadi and Navarra. ETA has left a stream of blood that has soaked and deplete the roots of our land and has put a huge slab on our future, the future of all citizens. To better understand the dimension of drama, of horror there are two facts, ladies and gentlemen: of the 858 crimes that I have just pointed out, more than 800, almost 10,000 frustrated murders and all the thousands of extortioned and displaced were during democracy. ETA, we should all remember, he did not kill just during the dictatorship; his crimes committed during and against democracy, during and against democracy. Secondly, when ETA decreed its ceasefire there were, and still are today, more than 300 crimes perpetrated, in democracy - I insist - that were and are unresolved. Ladies and gentlemen, repairing the damage requires repairing the duel, which can be mourned, and in order to make the duel it is necessary to know the victims, the murderers, the responsible ones. In order to mourn, there must be justice, for without justice there is no reparation; with impunity there is no reparation; without memory there is no reparation. Memory, dignity and justice are absolutely necessary - I insist - so that we can finish this unfortunate stage of the history of democracy and so that the victims can mourn. Memory requires truth and truth requires story; true story and not versions of what happened and what, by the way, continues to happen - I will refer to it at the end - but a story, the story of truth; it requires that it be written the truth, that it be written and that the truth be studied, that the young people know the truth, that the educational system itself, the political leaders, the prescriptors of opinion be able to tell and write the truth. The truth is that in Spain, but particularly in Euskadi and Navarra, in that part of Spain, there has been national cleansing, ethnic cleansing, as proclaimed by the Navarra authorities, their Navarra Parliament and, as we have often said, some of those we are here. Yes, there was national cleansing, ethnic cleansing in all those crimes, in all those extortions, in all those expulsions. Yes, there was ethnic cleansing, because they were murdered for being Spanish. Yes, they were murdered for defending democracy. Yes, they were murdered for defending the Constitution. Yes, they are crimes against humanity. That is why it must be the responsibility of the International Criminal Court, so that they do not prescribe. That is the first of the effects of crimes against humanity, which they do not prescribe. Moreover, also so that they may be regarded, as all the crimes of which the International Criminal Court is competent, as the most execrable of humanity; as crimes of the most execrable of humanity. For what? So that no one, on his behalf, can claim a political objective. Can anyone claim a political objective for those crimes that are considered the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court? No, no, For that is the third of the considerations; besides that they do not prescribe are against humanity; therefore they do not prescribe and, moreover, no one, ever, if it is not with shame, reproach and condemnation of all who hear it can claim them in the name of any political cause. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have to continue with this complaint. That is why we must continue, ladies and gentlemen, in this claim. I know that there is one who says that ETA no longer kills; therefore, we must forget; therefore, there must be no reparation; therefore, any version can serve us. As he said last week remembering Hannah Arendt when he returned from exile and found that the Germans were making versions of what was genocide - versions; and he claimed the truth, claimed the story and claimed the story - it is up to the Democrats today to insist on claiming the story; the story of what really happened and what really happens, because this is not over. ETA has stopped killing, but this isn't over. Still this weekend a lot of Democrats, a few representing many, were in Andoain to claim a space for memory, a space for freedom, a space for truth, a space for recognition of what happened in Andoain and the rest of the Basque Country. We were there claiming a humble mailbox, Joseba's mailbox, a humble mailbox in which many citizens of Andoain and the Basque Country are leaving their statements, their requests for forgiveness, their recognition of shame for their silence; many people who did not speak, claimed a mailbox in a public space 100 meters from the city hall; a mailbox that the Mayor of Bildu has decided to withdraw. That's what happens today too; it's not what happened in the past. It is the truth of the story of what continues to happen today, of what some from the institutions want to erase because they want to write a story, a story that does not correspond to what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is important that we commit ourselves to writing together the story of history and the truth; that we commit ourselves not to allowing those who murdered us, those who wanted to end democracy, those who fortunately have not been able to end democracy and plural society to write the story. As someone has wanted to write the account of what happened in our country, in Spain, during the dictatorship, and then we have not allowed them to write it. We want the truth, because only from the truth can there be reparation. It is therefore appropriate that today, once again, there should be a statement and a commitment among democrats; that we should do nothing more or less than what we have done in many other previous statements, which is to commit ourselves to the truth, to justice; to commit ourselves to memory, to reparation for damage; and that we should support the victims, which is to support the account of democracy. It would not even be necessary to support the victims in the face of the executioners, because there is no one among us who is not clear about that; simply that we support, I insist, this statement that has already been made in Navarre, and that it is nothing more or less than a way of repairing damage that is absolutely necessary and that is a pending subject of democracy. The concealment of the truth, the concealment of what happened, is something that no Democrat can afford. That's why I appeal to all of you. That is why I appeal, moreover, in a house in which I know that the vast majority of those here, of those who are sitting today or of those we hear daily, have no difference on the bottom. I hope that we will be able to take one more step forward, one more step in this demand for reparation that I have put before you today. I hope that we will also be able to agree on the final text. I conclude by saying that two amendments have been tabled. The first is an amendment from the Plural Left which unfortunately my group cannot accept, because it is a statement of principles which falls far short of what is intended by this motion, but in any case, I am grateful for the effort of the Plural Left to introduce that amendment. The second amendment is that tabled by the Socialist Group, the People's Group, the Forum, the UPN and the Canary Coalition on which I have offered its proponents a compromise, which is all it does is to take the first point of the Navarra declaration textually and incorporate in the last point something that we in this Parliament have voted on at least three times: that the Government should push for the adoption of a comprehensive convention against terrorism at the United Nations level. The latter is in our view absolutely essential to recover the story, to recover the truth. Thank you, President, for your generosity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Indeed, amendments have been made by a number of groups. We begin with the Joint Group, but both those who have tabled amendments and those who have not. Firstly, Mr Salvador has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of UPyD, I am not going to reproduce the public assessments that the Dignity and Justice Association has made on the presentation of this initiative. I don't have time, but you already know them. Its leaders, and as the promoters of this declaration are also known, have been sufficiently clear about the opportunity and also with a certain sense of perplexity that caused them when they saw this initiative registered in this house as an individual, one-group initiative. But if something is positive about this debate - which I believe it is positive about - it is that on March 17 with the votes of UPN, the Socialist Party of Navarre and the People's Party in the Foral Parliament of Navarre, a text was adopted which declared a fact that some want to hide, as it is that the most criminal terrorist gang in Europe of the last fifty years wanted to force the political will of the Basque country and of Navarre and to put on their knees an entire country, such as Spain, making it impossible to live together, plurality of ideas and also of identities. In addition, he wanted to do so by committing all kinds of acts: extortion, coercion, threats, kidnappings, bombs, targeted killings of members of the State Security Forces and the military and, finally, in a second step, with a campaign to socialize terror aimed at eliminating politicians to whom he attached something very significant, or very elementary and relevant to them, which was - you have said it well - to be and feel proudly Spanish in those lands. A strategy of selective elimination that has perfectly explained the leaders of the Association Dignity and Justice and that explains, in any case, the band itself in its many communiqués when it tells us why and why they needed violence in their objectives of national construction, precisely by marking, pursuing, attacking and expelling thousands of citizens who deprived them of their freedom, life and peace; a genocidal objective, of elimination of which they did not think so. Mrs Díez, we have no problem voting the same as we voted in Pamplona. If you do not accept the transaction, we would have to do so without any complex. We say here the same as there, although it is true that we have the approval of the promoters of the initiative of that declaration to our position of signing a compromise with more groups, and I am aware - as we have been told - that they prefer unity and consensus on this issue. In any case, whatever happens - tomorrow will be the vote - however, we will continue to denounce the impunity of the Etra chiefs, demanding the need to resolve these more than 326 unanswered murders, supporting the thousands of displaced people from the Etra persecution and collaborating with all initiatives to ensure that the Abertzale Left is recognized and declared to be a necessary accomplice to ETA and, ultimately, not to change the narrative of the truth. In any case, Mrs Diez, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should all do it together, or at least the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Your initiative, Mrs Díez, is, in my view, obsessive and will not move forward in reconciliation. It is deeply irresponsible because the abandonment of weapons by ETA is irreversible. You know that ETA was never recognized by the Spanish state and justice as belligerent, but as a terrorist organization, and so its members were tried and convicted. Your proposal to use the criminal type of crime against humanity and genocide is a manifest act of bad faith, I believe deeply reactionary, which seeks to overwhelm applicable and customary international law, as it is known after the Second World War. His proposal, as well as the amendment by the People's Group and the Socialist Group, on the possible adequacy of the figure of terrorism in international law, is a legal strategy that the Spanish State has been defending for the past ten years and that has found no support within the framework of the United Nations, in addition to having been rejected by the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries held in Rome in 1998. It is also an act of political bad faith that conceals the intention to turn the International Criminal Court into a court of last resort and to use the figure of terrorism as a means of dismantling the court itself, thus preventing the prosecution of the crime of aggression, war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. It is a strategy led by States, those who want the destruction of the Court to be able to legitimize and conceal the crimes of aggression committed in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, etc., turning it into a court for internal affairs, as is already the case with Africa or perhaps with the Republic of Colombia. Finally, on the contrary, we are pleased that the Ernest Lluch Hall of this Congress will celebrate the days for peace and coexistence in Euskal Herria on 29 May, in which victims of ETA and the LAG will participate in order to advance the path of reconciliation and fraternity. This is a meeting organized by the parish of San Carlos Borromeo in Madrid that has the endorsement of a good number of deputies and deputies of this Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Joint Group too, Mr Urbina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Díez, I understand that you have the house made foxes, that you need votes at all costs and that you have to present here as the ram against the left abertzale and for that you bring us this motion, a motion that knows that you have no legal coverage, that does not conform to reality and that does not bring anything to coexistence in Euskal Herria. But this doesn't matter to you. What he wants are votes. In addition, it brings it to a Chamber that has still been unable to recognize the true genocide committed by the Francoists in the Spanish State and in Euskal Herria, where, among other things, the cuneteros left 3,500 dead in Nafarroa and hundreds of mass graves. Therefore, Mrs Díez, a little serious when it comes to bringing ideas to the House. You insist on the subject of the account, you insist on trying to tell us what happened and what did not happen in Euskal Herria. No one has to tell us, our people have lived it in their own flesh, not only the last fifty years but many more, and each of us - you too - has his own account in which everyone knows what he has done, why he has done it, and what he has suffered. Therefore, Mrs Díez, nothing of the uniforming account that you intend to impose on us. The story is made up and will be made up of all those individual and collective stories that have lived in their own flesh what happened during all this time, as bad as it weighs, Mrs. Díez. And it is true, in that account there are victims, too many, who must be recognized and repaired, but one hundred per cent, Mrs Díez, without leaving any victims behind. In this account there is a violation of fundamental, individual and collective rights, which will have to be addressed, the same as there are causes and why they will have to be addressed in a democratic way someday. Your proposal, this motion, does not bring anything positive in that sense, and that is why we will vote against it, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Urbina. An amendment has also been tabled by the Group of the Plural Left, for which Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u184	Thank you, President. Our group has tabled an amendment which I am going to read out in writing. It says: "The Congress of Deputies strongly condemns and expresses the terrorist violence perpetrated by ETA and demands its unconditional dissolution". We have presented it, first of all, so that there is no doubt about our position, regardless of what we are now going to think. Because at the heart of the condemnation of violence we are all in agreement, of course, but we cannot allow populism to come to terms with the debate on violence in Euskadi and the years of lead. In fact, populism has already used the subject in depth for its political interests, but we are no longer in that political context. Fortunately, peace, rationality, dialogue and political normalization have finally opened up. And it must be said that both the left abertzale and the victims of all violence today are part of the solution in Euskadi and not of the problem. Therefore, in a very clear manner in 1948, the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, and that convention says what it says; therefore, when we judge crimes against humanity or genocide, we do so in the light of that international norm, which clearly says that crimes against humanity mean a widespread or systematic attack on a civilian population, or, for example, that in order to speak of genocide we have to face an express plan or policy - as was in its day the Nazi and Francoist laws adopted in Spain - or covert. And it is just as necessary that there be crimes as there is a plan to commit them, and only in that case can we talk about genocide. We cannot therefore vote in favour of the initiative that is presented to us because what it does is to twist international conventions so that they adapt to the political ideal of political formation, and that is not possible. International conventions are above that and, when judging, I repeat, crimes against humanity and genocide must be judged on those criteria and not on those of a political formation or a group of political parties. That is why we are voting against. We are also pleased that the Congress of Deputies on 29 May will host a meeting of victims of ETA and LAG in the symbolic Ernest Lluch Room, so that the victims can dialogue and teach some and some of us the way and the solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. To defend the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Sicilia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least my group wishes to pay a sincere tribute in this debate to the victims of terrorism and to express its continued commitment to all those who have suffered it. All Spanish society must recognize and respect the victims of terrorism, but it must also show its solidarity and make a shared effort, Mrs Díez, for the reparation that the victims and their families deserve. All the initiatives my group has put forward that affect the victims of terrorism have been based on four premises: memory, dignity, justice and truth. With these premises it was approved in 2011, being President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Law of recognition and comprehensive protection to the victims of terrorism, a law that advanced in the aids, the benefits, the care and the decorations to the victims and that it has the support of all the groups of this House, except one, which today presents this motion. That's funny, isn't it? The political significance of the victims of terrorism requires their social recognition and is an essential tool for the ethical, social and political delegitimization of terrorism. The memory is thus an act of justice, but also a civilizing instrument; yes, ladies and gentlemen, a civilizing instrument, because the victims live together today in our society with those who jealous the murderers, and do not ask for revenge, ask for justice and memory; memory as the ultimate guarantee that Spanish society and its institutions will never forget those who lost their lives, suffered physical or psychological injuries or were sacrificed their freedom as a result of terrorist fanaticism. The victims of terrorism also constitute an ethical reference for our democratic system, symbolizing the defence of freedom and the rule of law in the face of the threat of ETA terror, symbolizing better than anyone the defeat of ETA terrorism, which has failed to achieve its objectives, which has failed to rewrite history, which has failed to end freedom, which has failed to end our democracy; a terrorism that we have defeated, because I would like to remind you that in November 2011 ETA, in its own words, declared the definitive cessation of its armed activity. This defeat of ETA has been thanks to the courage, resistance, effort and dignity that Spanish society has shown in a few years that were very difficult and that are undoubtedly an example of civicism and of commitment to democracy, the Constitution and its values. It is therefore outrageous today to hear those who despise that constitutional pact, which was a pact of the whole of Spanish society and which has cost us so much, that so many tears and blood has shed. Those who now come, as a few years ago others came, promising to revolutionize politics, should remember the words of Victor Hugo, who said that revolutions are like volcanoes, have days of flames and years of smoke. Unity, ladies and gentlemen, the unity of the constitutional pact or the necessary unity in the face of terrorism, unity in the face of terrorism and in order to care for the victims, because in these matters there are no protagonists, no protagonists, Mrs Díez, nor electoral calculations. When we talk about ETA and the victims that ETA has caused, the main concern is petty, because the whole of Spanish society is, to a greater or lesser extent, the victim of ETA's outburst and because if there is someone who has to be the protagonist they will always be the victims of terrorism. From the unit we have defeated ETA and from the same unit we must work to prevent impunity for terrorist crimes in any of its manifestations and ensure that terrorists fully serve their sentences in accordance with criminal law. And that the public authorities contribute to the knowledge of the truth, of a certain account of what happened, that it avoids moral or political equidistance, ambiguities or neutralitys - it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen - that it captures with absolute clarity the existence of victims and terrorists, of those who have suffered the damage and of those who have caused it, and that it serves for the victims to feel the support and respect of public institutions and society, because the victims of terrorism are also victims of human rights violations. I'm done. The decency of a society is also measured by the dignity with which it protects and protects those who have been victims of terrorism, those who have been victims of defending the freedom and democracy of the society in which they lived, and today, with the amendment we propose together with other groups, we want to continue to give dignity to the victims of ETA, dignity, memory, justice and truth, which is presented in our amendment, which calls for the victims of terrorism and which has always defended and promoted the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. For the People's Group, Mr Barreda has the floor to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know in this House, over more than half a century the terrorist gang ETA has sought to impose itself through terror on democratic society and its institutions, has sought to double individual freedoms, to submit to their designs the exercise of fundamental rights, has sought to curtail in every citizen the uppermost freedom, which is only the effective exercise on equal terms by every person of their democratic rights and freedoms. To double that democratic will, ETA has resorted to all means and forms of violence, has committed more than eight hundred and fifty murders, caused thousands of wounded and tens of thousands of victims of threats, extortion and all imaginable forms of violence or persecution. It has directed its attacks against those who opposed its designs, against those entrusted with the protection of individuals and the guarantee of their rights and freedoms, against the guarantors of the constitutional order and the legitimate decisions taken by democratic institutions. In ETA terrorism it is not only possible to identify individual attacks or massive and indiscriminate attacks on the freedom or physical integrity of its victims, there is also an express will, a plan, Mr. Nuet, in his expressly recognized communiqués, to eliminate those who did not share his plans, a plan to expel by coercion, threat and terror those who represented an obstacle to his claims. They demanded their destruction as social groups, their elimination as organized political actors to impose on an entire society their totalitarian project. These are crimes that go beyond the murder or injuries caused by the attacks. By their reach, by the will of those who committed them, by the objectives they sought to achieve, they were characters such as genocide or crimes against humanity, and to demonstrate that reality was also part of the commitment to the truth, which was essential for combating terrorists from democracy. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this UPyD motion. It is an online amendment and with the express support of those who we push from politics or associations the institutional declaration of the Navarro Parliament. An amendment condemning ETA's crimes, their perpetrators and those who supported them and those who still do not condemn their crimes and, therefore, do not reach democracy despite the time that has elapsed, something that the spokesman of Amaiur should probably bear in mind before going down to this rostrum, should start there, by taking the step and making that sentence that he still does not do, so many years later, without claiming to be any other kind of representation. Or what is the same, you still do not reach democracy. They have come to reality and still do not come to democracy. We therefore support the action of justice, that justice that achieves the full clarification of ETA's crimes, a task that is still arduous but which, in fact, has not been abandoned by the Spanish courts. It is an amendment that supports justice to determine whether such acts that describe the moral or social nature of our political convictions are crimes against humanity, are also constituting crimes of genocide or against humanity in accordance with criminal law, something that the National High Court is already working on, as was recalled here last week, with reports provided by the State Security Forces and Bodies. In addition, the second paragraph instructs the Ombudsman to prepare a specific study on the current situation and human rights violations suffered by victims of these crimes because we believe that recognizing their situation is the only way to deal with reparation as far as possible. Finally, we reiterate other agreements adopted by this House with regard to the International Criminal Court. For the People's Party and for the Government we support the victims of terrorism, they are a priority. The defeat of ETA is the victory of democracy and its values, the victory of the democrats, that is, we defend an end with justice in the face of pretensions of impunity, an end with memory in the face of the forgetfulness that seeks to relativize the responsibility of terrorists and with truth so that the historical facts that we have experienced and suffered will not be diluted in equidistant stories, always full of justifications, as we have had to hear today in this rostrum. Memory, dignity, justice and truth are the principles of the Act on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism. Forgetfulness contributes to the re-edition of the nightmare. We must therefore remember to delegitimize terrorists and their crimes, to dismantle the myths and alibis in which they take refuge. We must preserve and spread the story of what has really happened for so many years, decade after decade, in Spain. The Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism is, therefore, key, the pillar on which memory, dignity and justice prevail and, therefore, a centre at the service of memory and truth. And to preserve the memory of the real victims is also due to the incorporation into the basic curriculum of secondary and baccalaureate the contents relating to the defense of democracy and its values against terrorism. This has been done - and it is not necessary to repeat it because it is already done - by Royal Decree 1105/2014 of 26 December, published last 3 January. Education in values for social delegitimization and the definitive eradication of the use of violence to impose political pretensions. I'm done. Because victims are a priority, so are the hundreds of ETA crimes pending judicial resolution, pending clarification. We advocate an end to ETA without impunity and with justice, which forces us to think about the families of each of the victims every day, to support the work of the rule of law and the State Security Forces and Corpses to arrest and bring to justice the escaped terrorists, more than 130 in this legislature, by the way, in multiple countries of Europe and America, in a work that allows for compliance with the legal provisions, that is, for criminals to be held accountable for their actions, to comply fully with their convictions and away from any scenario of impunity, to continue to resolve cases and to reopen others with the provision of new evidence. Today we can take a new step in that direction. Mrs Díez, I would like to say to you in order to conclude that being partyly involved in joint initiatives, which you have not even been involved in so far, is not the best way to address these issues. These are issues on which we are firmly convinced that the unity of democrats is a fundamental element. It is this unity that has contributed decisively to the defeat of ETA, of political forces, of citizens by supporting justice, of institutions and of security forces. The end of ETA is the victory of all democrats from unity and we keep it in mind both when signing initiatives and, by the way, when occupying the rostrum in pre-campaign rallies. That's why I'm still trusting that we can reach...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u189	Mr. Barreda, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u190	I'm done, Mr. President. ... a broad agreement, with wider support in this House than it had in Navarre also on this issue, but it is up to you to reach agreement, as we all know. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. Mr Esteban spoke on behalf of the Vasco Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Catalá, Minister of Justice, said today that laws are made to overcome historical stages, I understand that not only laws, but also motions and non-law proposals. However, I do not think that some are interested in overcoming historical stages and moving towards situations of coexistence, agreement and settlement, that is, repairing what needs to be repaired, purging whoever needs to purge. But in his proposal there is no guess of any will to move forward in order to overcome a historical stage. It is a more opportunistic initiative, in a few moments - by the event to be held, but many others have been held - in which encounters are taking place between victims and victims and in which Basque society tries to seek a new stage and overcome many wounds. You insist on defining as genocide the brutality that you have been doing for years ETA. Of course ETA has killed, has extortioned, has done absolutely unacceptable things, some cases I know very closely, in the family, but it can and must be said that there has been an attempt to impose a political project through terror, that no one denies, but hence that these facts can be described as genocide there is a very big step. This is unacceptable because, as stated in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide or the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, genocide is an international crime that includes any of the systematic acts perpetrated with the intention of totally or partially destroying a national, ethnic, racial or religious group, with such acts as killing, serious physical or mental injury, intentional submission of the group to conditions of existence that will lead to its total or partial physical destruction, measures aimed at preventing births within the group, forcibly transferring children from the group. National group? Man, have you always defended that there is only one nation that is Spanish, or are there two nations? Let's assume that there is an ideological nation, because neither, because there have not only been victims who thought in one way, there have been victims who identified nationally in another way closer to the postulates of ETA and ETA has ended with them. Ethnic? Obviously not, nor racial, because ethnically there have been people who were Basque by all their ancestors and who have been killed by ETA. Religious? Well, neither. But you are committed to it and also with a very specific objective. He said: to make it clear in the courts that the cause or objectives that he has been able to pursue ETA are outlawed. You are doing the same as if someone said: Islam is the same as jihad and, as there are jihadists, Islam must be prohibited. No, Mrs Díez, there has indeed been an attempt to impose a political project through terror, with terrible murders, with unacceptable acts, but it does not want to stretch the definitions of international legal law because then in the end the word genocide loses value. The word genocide began with the Armenian case, of which one hundred years have passed. Another case is that of Ríos Montt, in Guatemala, who tried to exterminate an ethnic group such as the ixil. We're not on a case like that. By the way, there is talk of memory and dignity - and the same thing I say to you, I say to Mr Barreda - of the victims. Look, Mr Barreda has also spoken about the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism. It is in the Victims of Terrorism Act and was passed in the previous legislature during the Zapatero Government. A whole legislature has passed and the only thing the People's Government has done is to put a plaque, in the pre-election period, in an empty, projectless building, which had to be removed half an hour later by an official dressed in divers. Something embarrassing. Do not take me out of the memory centre, because they have not even complied with an agreement signed with the previous Basque Government, with Patxi López, with specific items in favor of the victims. The Memorial Institute will be on 26 June, which has been promoted by the Basque Government. What can be asked of the Ombudsman that has not already been done? The report of the Valentin Institute of Foronda on the actions of ETA and the violence of persecution. The map of all terrorist actions, municipality by municipality, memory map is being drawn up and is being finalized. A report has been made by the Basque Government on outstanding cases. In Euskadi there is a Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Political Violence. What more study do you want to do? What can the Ombudsman provide? I'm afraid not much more because a lot has been done and the victims will be taken into account. Let's not act like nothing's being done. Of course they're identifying themselves and making that map! I'm finishing up, Mr. President. You again insist on terrorism in the International Criminal Court, Mr Barreda has gone around, when terrorism in the International Criminal Court needs a very precise definition to know what is going to be judged. I said this in the debates on resolutions that are quoted by the Socialist Group and the People's Group in their amendment. Two days ago the PKK was a terrorist organization for Western allies and for the United States, and today it turns out to be an important ally because it is fighting against the Daesh. That is where we could enter into the definition of genocide against a specific group, such as the Yazids or Christians.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u193	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u194	It's over, Mr. President. It cannot claim that terrorism, saying so simply and therefore remaining to the decision of each State what is defined as terrorist and terrorism, inter alia, in the International Criminal Court. A little more serious. We will therefore have to vote against it because this proposal breaks all the fees and also of course the amendment tabled by the two major groups will have to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Guillaumes has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what everyone has started, which would almost no longer be necessary at this stage, the absolute condemnation of terrorism and the violence exercised by the terrorist band ETA, one of our premises. Our group has given uncompromising support, our own trajectory supports us, any government of the sign that it has been - of UCD, socialist and popular - in all that has been counter-terrorism initiatives. It would hardly be necessary to repeat it again but, as someone wants to point out the black-footed anti-terrorist appeal, it may be worth recalling the precedents that I believe are not only ours, but of the majority or of all the groups in this House. That said, other premises. We agree, I believe that forced displacements by ETA terrorist gang threats have to be recognized because we are talking about human rights. The phenomenon of displacement has not been recognized as such. At some point it will have to be recognized and action will have to be taken without looking at the ideology of the victim. Without looking at the victim's ideology! I am not going to repeat what Mr Esteban said, because he said it very well, but not all the victims of ETA were persecuted for their blunt Spanishness as two spokesmen have said here. There were also others who were also killed. You joyfully use expressions such as national displacement or national cleansing. They also talk about humanity and genocide. Apart from being democrats - in what we would agree - why were they persecuted? I will not insist on this, because Mr Esteban has already done so perfectly. Ladies and gentlemen of UPyD, your motion is absolutely unacceptable; at the outset, for the way in which you present it. A group only on an issue where consensus and agreement would have to be sought and a copy made - with forgiveness - with some serious error of an initiative approved by the Navarro Parliament. This isn't a receipt. We also repeat that the concepts of national cleansing, against humanity or genocide must be very careful, precisely on the basis of a guarantee principle. When everything is terrorism, nothing is terrorism. When everything is genocide, nothing is genocide. When extending a concept that has to be very determined from a guarantee point of view for the victims, you must be very careful; and you, even if you cite a judgment - one - are not. We have to say that undoubtedly the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Union of the Navarro People - we do not know if anyone else - infinitely improves the text of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy - which is not too difficult - but falls into the same original sin. It again falls into the simplification of the concepts of genocide and against humanity and, therefore, it is the same political error. However, we are open to the possibility that in the future, in the reasonable way that must be done, by bringing all groups together and drafting a text, we can talk about forced displacements by threats. We're open. I insist that it is a reality that is worth recognizing and, like all that is worth doing, it must be done well. We think the victims don't deserve less than that. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. Mrs Díez, I understand that there can be a compromise with the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u198	Thank you, President, for your amparo and for recognizing me the right to present initiatives and to defend them, which others have denied me. There is an amendment from the Plural Left which I have already said that I rejected - forgive me for my boldness at being able to reject an amendment - and there is an amendment tabled by other groups to which I have submitted a compromise and I still have no reply. Forgive me for not having an answer yet and for wanting to continue to act as a Member thanks to the votes given to me by the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-22-CD150422.u199	If there is a transactional, the transactional will be voted on and, if not, voted on its terms. The meeting was suspended. It was one and forty minutes in the afternoon.
