ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u1	The meeting was resumed. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is probably going to be the last of the debates on the state of the state, in which there is an absolute government majority. All the polls tell us that in the next legislature it will be necessary to agree to access the government and bring the laws forward. I confess I'm happy, and very happy. If for something this legislature has been defined, in addition to obviously by Rajoy's error, as it could not be less, by the president, it has been by the two errors of cut-off and re-centralisation, apart from the error of raking when negotiating the legislation, I would say more, raking not only to negotiate, but also when discussing the legislation that was intended to amend. An example that can quickly come to the memory of many members of the House is the one called by my decree-making group, Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, of 14 July, on the adoption of urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency, which modified a pen no less than twenty-six laws, and all this in a very speedy procedure in which there was no place for amendment or discussion. As he has dealt with many decree-laws, I am left with sixty-eight, not sixty-four, as he was told the other day, and when they arrived in the form of projects, because their organic content so demanded, they have had to be debated in very short terms many times; not only that, a few times you have used the recourse to introduce an amendment in the Senate that had little or nothing to do with the subject discussed in order to avoid the preceptive reports of the advisory bodies, to adopt in silence and speedily the content that was of interest to you practically without debate. On the other hand, the answers obtained from the Executive to written questions have sometimes removed the lack of institutional respect. We try to ask not many questions, but very focused and with topics that interest us. How is it possible that the request for specific data on investments in VAD can be answered with the "Diary of Sessions" of inquiries submitted by ourselves without providing any data, none of which we asked for? How can the Ministry of the Interior respond to our requirement to specify roadside controls carried out, with a brief paragraph pointing out that the Security Forces do the controls - literally - necessary to guarantee citizen security? It can only be understood from the absolute contempt of parliamentarianism, right. Now that we are presenting motions for resolutions following this debate, fifteen have the opportunity to present each group, I would like to remind the Government that those adopted should be complied with, we are still waiting for the proposals adopted and presented by this group last year on the logistics platforms of Jundiz and Arasur and the high-speed train to be implemented. Your Government, Mr President, has not been alien to the origin of the reasons for setting up a new Parliament that is more fragmented and varied than ever before. The disaffection of citizens towards politics has reached unsuspected extremes. But this should not surprise us when what is promised is not fulfilled, as happened for example with its electoral programme, and rather the contrary is done to what is promised. This is what happens when a problem is not addressed and it is simply left to run the time to see if the problem disappears by itself. But no, what is happening is that politics is being sought instead of serving as a mechanism to solve problems appears before the eyes of citizens as a mere theatre that does not respond to the problems that arise in the day-to-day life. What about those problems that have deep political-cultural roots? If in the face of the majority position of Catalan society, the only thing offered on the political-institutional path is a no and the subsequent silence by response, only an illusion can claim that the problem will disappear. And don't tell me that in your speech you have offered dialogue to look for meeting points. The lehendakari already knows first hand what the type of dialogue is, not even giving an answer to the things proposed to it. If we add to this the series of corruption matters, related to many members of your party, Bárcenes and Gürteles several, to name only the best known, since you already have the gasoline necessary for the ignition of the rest of the reasons of the generalised goat. He only devoted a minute and a half of speech to political corruption, and it was in a complacent tone, as if with you were only the solutions, the laws that have been passed. But this, Mr President, this generalised goat, as I said, is not managed by transparency laws and various financial controls on the parties, because we have reached a level, Mr President, that the only thing that can placate the general indignation is the assumption of responsibilities, the real and adequate explanation of what has happened and the practical imposition of exemplary measures from the parties' domes on all the affiliates, have the rank they have, as a warning to navigators. So, Mr Rajoy, you still have the most important tasks to do. Indeed, it is incoherent - I am going to say that even hypocritical - that having refused in the Courts by its absolute majority to the creation of any commission of inquiry, based on the fact that the only thing that was intended was the political use of the matter by the opposition, you are - the People's Party, your party in Euskadi - creating, with your votes, by Bildu - yes, by Bildu - commissions of inquiry without account and without meaning in other Parliaments to strike at other parties. On the other hand, this last year - no one has mentioned it, but I think it is also part of the structure of the state and we have to talk about it - we have witnessed the abdication of the Crown by Juan Carlos de Borbón and the succession in Philip VI as a new king. Once again, the people have not been able to decide on the form of government in the State. The possibilities for the new king to take an active stand in defining a new role for the Crown have faded in this little more than half a year. I could expand on this matter, but I will just mention something significant. It would have been logical, after a new head of state had taken office, - apart from the fact that in my opinion he should have pointed out in his speech what kind of reign he wishes and what his objectives are - to take the direct pulse of politics by holding a round of talks with the parliamentary spokesmen of both Chambers of the Courts. None of this, however, is or is expected of him; he has simply devoted himself to continuing with his father's agenda as if such a thing, as if a new period had not been opened, as if he did not want to have any connection with Parliament, to which the head of State also owes himself, not only the President of the Government. The head of State also owes himself to Parliament. One of the usual features of your speeches, Mr President, is the infinite complacency that emerges from them. Yesterday's was no different: his Government has done everything right; nothing has been cut here, neither health nor education funds nor dependency funds; all things are better and the socio-economic situation is good and more and more. There are some areas of your speech, Mr President, which are particularly bloody. People don't like to get caught up in it, let alone gloat about it. I have taken a look at the hemerotheques and found numerous expressions of leaders of the People's Party boasting that thanks to their formation pensions have risen. There is an extreme case, that of an Almerian Member, who was ufana when she pointed out that thanks to the PP the pensioners had been revalued their income, in particular their purchasing power, by up to 25% in the last two years. Almost nothing! He was playing a game of deflation and pension increases that no one could understand. As a good friend told me, Mari Tere - her mother - recently received a letter from the Government of Spain announcing the increase of her pension and notifying her that from now on she would have an increase in her income of 2 euros. Elvira, the mother of another friend, received a letter saying that the increase would be 0.79 euros. It costs more to send the official letter than to raise your pension. According to my friend, his mother's reaction was to say - sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but it is literal - "You can put the letter in for... !» - suspensive points and close quotes, ladies stenographers - and I understand indignation. I understand the outrage when you get a letter of those, and with more reason when at the same time it is known that exemplary citizens had multi-million dollar accounts in Switzerland to circumvent their tax obligations or that other worthy representatives of political parties or trade unions have used so-called and hitherto unknown black cards. I understand the indignation of this person when, in the face of the narrowness of thousands of families who survive with the post, we are presented with the ostentatiousness and descarcation of those who have put their fortunes to the opaque undermining of tax havens, and of this we have seen much lately when it comes to Gürteles, Counts B, etc. Mr President, it is true that there are data that point to a start of economic recovery from a macroeconomic perspective, that is unquestionable. The European Commission expects GDP to grow, as it also announced this year, by 2.4%, and it is also undeniable that jobs are being created. It gives the feeling that the recession is behind, but another very different thing - and this has to be acknowledged - is that the crisis is behind it. One thing is recession and another is crisis. Because the job that is created most of the time is low-skilled, temporary and poorly paid, which is not like breast-feeding and because, having previously destroyed 3 million jobs in the last seven years, the unemployment rate is around 25%, Mr Rajoy, only slightly exceeded by Greece, when other countries immersed in dramatic situations very recently have rates of 13.5 %, such as Portugal; 13 %, such as Italy; or 10.5 % of Ireland. The country with the most unemployment in the European Union below Spain has 11 points less unemployment. Rescued countries - those that accepted the rescue that you so ufano emphasize not having needed - like Portugal and Ireland have almost half as much unemployment as Spain. It is a fact that should lead you to make more humble speeches. The Spanish economy is closely conditioned, and also its future evolution, on factors beyond the control of its Government. You did not quote Europe yesterday not once to talk about the economy, yes about the European Council, but not to talk about the economy and to intertwine the possible evolution of the Spanish economy within a broader context, because it was as if Spain were outside economic and monetary union. But the reality is that Europe is in low growth and this dynamic, Mr President, is going to take a long time; that is what all specialists say. Of course, this does not make things easier for Spain because if the European economy grows at a low rate in the coming years, with even the risk of deflation as some would like, the Spanish economy can be seriously affected. Because if from something you have boasted - not only in yesterday's speech, also previously - as a fact on which to base the economic improvement has been on the rise of exports, and it gives the chance that most of them are to Europe. You yourself mentioned that the big European countries will grow less than Spain in 2015, i.e. the importers we sell to. Is that good news? Could this not affect the rate of growth of Spanish GDP in the future and, therefore, the rate of unemployment fall? To the present situation of very high unemployment has led us to Merkel's policy, which you have so much made your own, that policy which you consider necessary and solidarity; an economic policy based solely on austerity, which could be an element, but it must also be combined with measures to boost the economy. It has been based solely on austerity, cuts, reforms, rigid deficit-decrease deadlines - too rigid -, following the interests of a Germany more concerned about it, on many occasions, than the European Union itself, and that, in many cases, the syrup that has made others swallow has not been applied to itself. As an example, Mr President, and you know him well, there continues the myriad of small German savings banks that no one has dared to supervise. You announce a 3% drop in unemployment in one year with growth of 2.4% of GDP. For us something is not at home, or it is not going to be so many jobs or it is going to be very precarious and of poor quality, but with those figures something is not at home. If employment does not improve ostensibly and wages are maintained, it will certainly not increase consumption. The European situation with the Greek crisis, the risks of an armed confrontation at the gates of Europe in Ukraine and the worsening relations with Russia, in addition to the concern for the jihadist movements, also help industrial investors to be encouraged. Today, as yesterday, it seems clear to us that a policy of extreme austerity would condemn us to an eternal crisis and, as a result, demand-driven policies are needed. Today there is a small light of hope that this is understood once and for all by the European public authorities. In fact, even you, Mr President, seem to have fallen off the horse on the way to Damascus and seen the light. He has announced to us a series of social measures, which have been being demanded of him for a long time; but this has less merit because we are in the middle of the election year. You can't wait for election days, about to close, to get the catalogue of attractive products out. Some of the measures he has announced, such as the second opportunity for individuals and self-employed, in which all groups agreed, or the mortgage payment measures could have done so long before. Given the percale and how you work, just as it would be for citizens to have elections every year. As I said earlier, today there is little hope that the European public authorities will understand that demand-driven policies are needed. From the ECB Draghi announced some steps in this direction in 2012, but actually, saying more than doing. Now it has announced that from March the ECB will buy assets to get additional money directed to the bank, so that this dynamic economy with credits; late, all very late, but at least in the right direction. Finally, Europe is seeing that it must change its policy with regard to the public deficit and sooner rather than later, Mr President, the deadlines set out in the Stability and Growth Pact must be relaxed, something we have been insisting on year after year. The European Commission for its part has suddenly realised that it was beginning to abdicate its status as an executive political agent having a zero role in the political and economic life that comes, mainly marked by Germany, by the German dictatorship. He wants to look for his space and the Juncker Plan has given much to talk about, but today he will agree with me that she is pure unknown. As much as attempts are made to question those responsible for their development, they do not know how the necessary funds will be obtained. The 16 billion of the Community budget plus 5,000 of the European Investment Bank makes 21,000. To reach the 315,000 imagined one would have to multiply by 15 what one has. How do you intend to induce private capital to take an interest in investments that can hardly be profitable? If it is also for private projects, why does not the private sector do so directly? What formulas do they contemplate? As my colleague Pedro Azpiazu says, this looks like the miracle of bread and fish. The conclusion is that today's hopes are placed in something that is for the moment only marquetin, today only marquetin. Mr President, how is it possible that Spain, after its experience of suffering a generalised wage reduction, cuts in social and educational matters and suffocating levels of unemployment, will allow Greece to be overwhelmed by demanding the return in form and time of the amounts delivered by the rescue? Without mimetically defending from my party Syriza's positions, much less, it is clear that they have generated a movement so that the deadlines for deficit reduction and the return of aid are softened and that it is just, adequate and economically healthy. How much better it would have gone to Spain if you had pushed harder and managed to build alliances with other countries on this line instead of taking the lead that was marked by Germany! The departure of Greece from the euro would, in our view, have far more negative consequences than the cost of an economic settlement that gives the Greeks a break. In that regard, we welcome the agreement that appears to have been reached. Mr President, in short, the recession seems to be lagging behind, but the crisis does not. And of how the crisis evolves not only are internal factors of the country pending, but they can also influence, and much, external factors. Turning to other matters, Mr President, your mandate has, in our view, led to a loss of the democratic quality of legislation in the area of internal policy and freedoms; a legislative escalation towards a regulation on a daily basis. The reform of the Criminal Code has received a thousand amendments and has only reaped the acquiescence of its parliamentary group. He has been debated fast and running, it is true that he has been sleeping for months the dream of the righteous, but suddenly it had to be discussed in three weeks in the middle of the Christmas season. It has been debated in a haste and in such a hurry, Mr President, that the People's Party itself has had to submit ninety new amendments to the Senate's procedure to correct the bulwark errors and contradictions contained in the text passed by Congress. A penal code that no longer complies with having the greatest effective prison time in Europe, 40 years, but now aims to prolong it sine die, breaking the minimum bases of legal certainty by establishing a life imprisonment disguised as a permanent prison reviewable. This authoritarianism is also revealed in the elimination of the faults of the Penal Code, converting some into crimes and leaving the rest in the hands of the Administration with the consequent reduction of guarantees, as well as tightening the sanctions in the new Law on the Protection of Citizen Security - popularly called the law gag. They have taken a turn that is also revealed in the willingness to ignore allegations of torture, which may be true or false, Mr President, but must be investigated. The European Court of Human Rights from the heart of the European Union condemned Spain at the end of last year for not investigating alleged torture, as well as the payment of moral damages. The Government had not ordered any investigation to clarify the matter; the European Union had urged them to take the measures recommended by the Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe. Have you done anything in this regard? A preoccupation in hardening the codes, confusing it pathetically with an exercise of democratic firmness and this is undoubtedly due to pressures from the right most rarity of its formation, such as the transposition of the European Directive for the completion of sentences, the Framework Directive 675/2008, mocked by an amendment in the Senate that renders ineffective the objective and the will of the European legislator, the joint calculation of the years spent in prison. They haven't done a proper transposition, and they know it. We will have to wait for the European Court to repeal its law shortly, as happened with the application of the Parot doctrine retroactively. After a while - the time of the appeal - the Court of Luxembourg will come again to throw the ears at the Spanish Executive, brand Spain in pure state. Because it must be remembered that the origin of the above-mentioned amendment came from the decision of the National Court to release prisoners under European law, not because it had been presented within the initial draft of the Government, no, no, it was subsequently introduced following specific cases in the Senate proceedings. And in the face of this decision of the National High Court, the Government - so respectful of mouth usually with the court rulings - jumped as a spring criticizing and pressuring the judges, starting with the Vice-President of the Government and continuing with the Ministers Fernández and Catalá, to the point that three judges of the National High Court asked for protection from the General Council for being disturbed their independence and - an unprecedented situation - thirteen of the eighteen Supreme Magistrates expressed in a public statement their protest against the interferences of the Government. It's objective data. Go with respect for judicial independence! This has not yet been done without the sudden resignation of the Attorney General of the State, who at the time was forced by the Government to attempt to attack through the Prosecutor's Office against the consultation process approved by the Catalan Parliament. Indeed, Mr President, in the field of human rights, they have failed to fulfil a mandate from this Parliament, to which they have committed themselves. Seeing it from the current perspective they surely committed themselves to staying well and with no real intention of fulfilling it. With their votes - I insist, with their votes - it was approved, at the request of my parliamentary group, that the Government should submit to Congress, to Parliament, a human rights plan that would replace the post under way by the former socialist Government. The project's drafting team, made up of university professionals from diverse backgrounds and with contrasted prestige, soon came to the conclusion that the Government had no real desire to carry it forward. The first was an analysis of the human rights situation in Spain. The result frightened the Government, as it was clearly confronted with its legislative agenda. Although the drafting commission tried to negotiate each chapter with the Government, the only possible way out was the resignation of the entire drafting group, and of that text, which had never been introduced, the Government did not want to know anything. I trust that when it is published independently by its editors, as I have heard, it will serve as a reference to future legislators. The policy of the monocolor government of the People's Party in these more than three years of legislature has followed a clearly centralist course. Taking advantage of the complicated economic situation, it has endorsed a series of laws and royal decrees-laws that invade the competences, among others, of the Statute of Gernika, an organic law directly embedded in the Constitution that has been endorsed by the citizenry. The apology from the crisis for the competitive invasion has come from pearls. Euskadi has never been on your agenda, Mr President, the clear reflection of this is the indifference with which it has dealt with the matters that the Basque Government has sometimes raised directly through the lehendakari. To proposals on important issues on the Euskadi agenda, based on a constructive spirit, your Government, yourself, Mr President, has given the silent answer. We do not know at this point how he felt about the proposals that the lehendakari gave him in the matter of statutory development, there has been no response, unless we consider as such the list of centralizing laws that I have mentioned to him earlier. The Statute of Self-Government remains unfulfilled thirty-six years after its adoption in matters such as prisons or social security, and many of the exclusive powers - some based on the foral fact such as that of education - have been tainted by state legislation. As far as public order is concerned, the statutory text is not complied with now that ETA does not act, a reason given for years for its non-compliance. State security forces, in disproportionate numbers for their work in law, continue with unceasing roadblocks everywhere, as if nothing had changed in Basque society. We are neither on your agenda nor have you shown any institutional respect. It seems a lie that the opportunity to strengthen not peace but coexistence in the Basque Country, which may be seen from Moncloa as a non-accusing and distant issue, but for Basque society, is important. You will agree with me, Mr President - I am sure - that peace is more than the absence of violence and that coexistence is more than peace. Our priority is to restore the wounds in Basque society after thirty years of terrorism. However, you have inexplicably lost the whole legislature without addressing this task. He remains hostage to his past, as is the political and social environment of ETA. We do want movements - the Basque society wants them above party acronyms -, we want the disarmament of ETA, we want the recognition by ETA of the unjust damage caused, we want another prison policy, we want to put an end to the regime of judicial exception and promote the rapprochement of prisoners to prisons near the Basque Country. We ask for movements from each other. It is not the time for hatred and resentment, it is the time to act with intelligence and magnanimity, not with viscera or electoral calculation, or with closure or group sect activism. We can't, we don't want to resign ourselves to another lost year. The lehendakari has offered you alternatives. I don't despise them, although now that I think about it, it seems to me that I told you this too last year and nothing happened. Don't waste another year, please; don't despise them. Similarly, Mr President, you are letting time pass in the face of the demands of Catalan society. At the beginning of my speech I spoke about the state of state debate, rather than the state of the nation debate; and I did so consciously, of course. The persistent majorities that indicate that Catalan society considers its country a nation, which is disgusted by its fit in the Spanish state, cannot be ignored. For its part, the Basque Parliament recently reiterated the declaration of self-determination of the Basque nation that it had already made in the 1990s. As much as I try to look the other way, the problem is not going to be solved. With that attitude you'll only get it to be conquered. Mr President, the transition, and especially the development of it, which has taken place, has failed to solve the national problem of Basque and Catalan institutional fit; we are not comfortable in the current Spanish institutional scheme. As I said to this House in another debate a little less than a year ago, it has two hot potatoes in its hand: the Catalan potato and the Basque potato. To listen deaf to a demand made in a majority and democratic way, arguing as the only reason that the current legal order does not allow, does not solve the problems. If you do not want this to overflow, it would be better for you to face a sincere and realistic dialogue about the situation, reaching an agreement through the recognition of the plurinationality of the State; I insist, plurinationality of the State. It should not be interpreted as a concession to Basque and Catalan nationalists, but as a formula to clear tensions in Spain that will benefit all citizens, all citizens. Pay attention to me. It may seem utopian to you today, impossible tomorrow, but past, if your immobile stance persists, it will be too late for any settlement. Mr President, I shall conclude. To that end, I will try to outline the path we believe that every Government must go through in the present circumstances. We are in favour of the separation of powers, not of confusing or subjecting the other two to the Executive. We believe in the rule of law, and we would like a more diligent and less mediated functioning of justice. We believe that anyone who engages in corrupt actions should be punished and return the property damage caused. We believe in the transparent and honest exercise of politics at the service of society. We believe in a more just and equitable model, which requires fair collection to finance social policies through the proper redistribution of available resources. We believe in the Basque nation, whose will cannot be subordinated to what decides on it by anyone other than its citizens. We no longer look at the discount time remaining from his political action. Our gaze is in the future, and the future is not the absolute majority of the People's Party. We trust that it will be an open future, of negotiation and understanding, in which, instead of hiding our heads from the structural challenges, they will be faced with conviction and realism, a future which must necessarily contemplate a second transition in terms of Euskadi and Catalonia. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Esteban, thank you very much for your speech. I will try to respond on time to all the matters you have raised in this House. He began his intervention by making a harsh criticism of the violations of the People's Party's electoral programme and on corruption issues, and attributed to these two circumstances, and to some more, the disaffection that many Spanish citizens have with regard to the political class. I would like to make a brief comment at this time on the electoral programme, gathering a few words that I said yesterday in my initial speech. Yesterday I began my speech, in the morning, recalling what I had said here when I appeared on December 19, 2011 to ask for support for my investiture. I said that the great objectives for this legislature - obviously there are others, but we must always prioritize, in politics and in any facet of life - were: first, to end the bleeding of unemployment; secondly, to turn the situation around and start a stage of economic growth and, thirdly, to start creating jobs in our country. Those were the great objectives of the legislature, those are still the great objectives - there are others too - for what remains of the legislature. I think that is what meets the common sense, because without a doubt the most important problem that I had, and still has, our country is that of employment, as you very well recalled in your speech this morning. Employment, therefore, remains the priority, because employment is also a guarantee of greater collection - more people are going to be working - while at the same time ensuring that more resources are devoted to social policy and the proper functioning of public services. That was the great goal of the legislature. The measures may be discussed, many of the decisions taken by the Government may be discussed, and the Government may be accused of having used the Decree-Law more or less. But what is clear is that we have endeavoured to achieve that great goal shared by a large majority of citizens. Also in that speech I delivered here on December 19, 2011, I said what were going to be the first three measures we were going to take in the economic area, which were: first, adoption of the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability; second, labour reform; and third, restructuring of the financial system. And we did. It was the first three major economic decisions we made in 2012. We chose those three reforms because we understood that they were the most important ones for the purpose of taking steps towards that great goal of creating employment and previously achieving economic growth in our country. Therefore, the bulk of what I said in the investiture debate - which is illustrative to review; I did so when I was preparing the debate on the state of the nation, which we are having at the moment - the great setting of objectives and the announcement of measures, of instruments to achieve those objectives, has been achieved by the Government. You have made reference to corruption. I don't agree with many of the things you've said. It is clear that none of us agree with many of the things that have occurred in our country; it is clear, but it is also clear that political parties have made decisions that affect people; it is also evident. We must not deny what, on the other hand, is an objective fact. There are many people who have assumed political responsibilities. You believe that this is not arranged by laws, it is not entirely arranged by laws. Yes, but laws to prevent, deter and punish are also useful. Many of the laws we have tabled in this House, some of which you supported, I believe are useful and are steps in the right direction. Then there is something that we must also highlight: today the State Security Forces and Bodies act; today the prosecution acts and today the courts act, and they do it freely. We have reinforced - we have announced it in this House and it is already in the Official State Gazette - many material and personal means that were requested of us in the fight against corruption. Consequently, steps have been taken in the right direction. Is the problem definitely going to be solved? Probably not, but what no one can deny is that we are today in a situation that makes it much more difficult than in the past to commit such acts of corruption. Mr. Esteban, infinite complacency is not fair, it is not fair. You cannot say that I act and pronounce here with infinite complacency. I have been realistic in all the economic interventions I have had during this parliamentary term. When I introduced myself in the 2011 investiture debate, I said they were coming forward with difficult years. I said that in 2012 jobs were going to be destroyed and we were going to have negative economic growth, and so it was. I said that in 2013 we were going to have negative economic growth, and so it was. I said that 2014 and 2015 would be the best years in many years in our country. It's been 2014 and it's also going to be 2015. The economic forecasts we made for 2013 and 2014 were, fortunately, below reality. Last year we grew 1.4, and when we presented the budgets, and with them the macroeconomic picture for that year 2014, we said: Spain is going to grow 0.7. As Spain did not grow 0.7, it grew twice as much. It cannot be said that the Government acts with complacency or that it makes economic forecasts that are contrary to reality. If in any case they have been contrary to reality, it has been because we have been too moderate and cautious. Yesterday I announced in this House that the Spanish economy is going to grow on 2.4 this year. Some people think it's going to grow more. The first forecast we made was 2%. In April we will send our forecasts to the European Commission. We're going to send the 2.4, but I think we can grow even more from that 2.4 that I referred to yesterday. 2.4 seems to me to be a prudent forecast that we're going to keep. I also said yesterday that in the years 2014 and 2015, which are the last two years of this legislature, one million jobs would be created in Spain. Last year we were around 450,000 with 1.4 growth. If this year we create 550,000 - which is very possible if growth is 2.4 - we will be in a million jobs between 2014 and 2015. I also said that the great national objective for the coming years was to reach that figure of 20 million jobs, which I believe can be achieved, because it means creating 500,000 jobs each year during the next parliamentary term. With 20 million jobs in our country, in addition to the fact that many people who cannot work today can do so in the future, we will certainly recover the vast majority of that €70 billion in collection that was lost in 2008 and 2009. Mr Esteban, trying to be realistic we can reach those 20,000,000 people working, which was the greatest that there was in Spain at the best times, in the years 2000, 2005 and 2006. You can get there if you make a policy like the one we are doing right now, gaining competitiveness, supporting the foreign sector and improving consumption and investment in Spain. In this sense, I have recently read in the media - you have also quoted here and made a hemerotheque - some statements by some of the leaders of your party, specifically the person you replaced here, Mr Erkoreka. Mr Erkoreka said, in January of the same year, the following: the economic expectations for 2015 are reasonably positive - I share it, in this year 2015 we will grow above 2% -; the Spanish economy is being turned - I share it too, I think it is true - and there are reasons not to be pessimistic. Therefore, we see things this way, and we are realistic. In his day we said that there were two bad years, that we had to change many things, but now we can look at the future with more optimism than in 2012, which was undoubtedly one of the worst in the economic situation in our country. He said I didn't talk about Europe yesterday to talk about economics. I will make some considerations on this matter as it is an important issue. Yesterday I referred to an important pillar of European economic policy and, therefore, also of Spanish economic policy, which is the fiscal pact. The Fiscal Pact has brought about a change in constitutions in all the countries of the European Union. It is a commitment that we all make to have a level of public deficit and a level of reasonable debt. - Then I'll talk to you in detail about austerity. Yesterday I also referred in my speech to an important matter, to which you also referred in your speech today, to the Juncker Plan. I have talked about the reform plan, one of the obligations that all the countries of the European Union have assumed with ourselves with the whole of the European Union, so that Europe is an area of progress, well-being and wealth generation, and I have talked about Greece, which I will refer to below. Many things influence the economy, and you have made reference to some of them. What I am told by my experience as a ruler, as President of the Government and in other responsibilities I had in the Government of Spain a few years ago, is that the most important thing is to worry and take care of doing well what is within your strict competence. The outside can help or, on the other hand, can harm you, as has happened to us in the first part of this legislature. We have made an economic policy, ours, which the Spanish Government has made, which was based primarily on two main pillars. The first pillar of economic policy was fiscal consolidation: we cannot live with a public deficit like that which we had in 2011, of 9%, because it forced us to ask for EUR 90 billion per credit year, which, as you understand perfectly well, can be done one year but cannot be maintained throughout life. The second pillar was that of structural reforms: we have tabled many reforms, with some having agreed, with others not, just as has happened to other groups in this House, but they were fundamental to improving the competitiveness of the Spanish economy, that is, to generate well-being, wealth and employment in our country and, above all, to lay a solid foundation for the Spanish economy of the future. Those were the great instruments of economic policy, which depended directly on the Government I chaired. In this economic policy, being aware of the important and fundamental that Europe was, we are betting, we have done so and I have explained it in this House on numerous occasions throughout the legislature, first and foremost for greater economic union. We have talked on numerous occasions about the importance of energy union for Spain, but also the digital single market is very important and the service market is also important. We therefore bet on more economic union - the third pillar of our economic policy, but this in Europe -. Fourthly, we are committed to greater integration: we have fought battles such as banking union and we will fight in the future with fiscal union and also with political union. And finally - the fifth point of our economic policy - the ECB. What the ECB does is not alien to what happens in all the countries of the European Union. We have tried to comply with our attempt to influence the rest. Now there are things that are better. For example, the exchange rate of the euro, i.e. the fall in the value of the euro, is very positive for the Spanish economy. It is very important and very positive. That didn't help us in the early years of the legislature, but now it helps us, and it's good that every once in a while there's something that helps you. Secondly, it is very important that the price of oil has been above $100 throughout virtually the entire legislature, and has now fallen. That also helps our external sector. Thirdly, some decisions that have not yet materialised by the European Central Bank are also important, but I suppose they will materialise from March onwards. Then it's positive data. Now you say that there may be things on the horizon that hurt us; no doubt. It is clear that I would like Italy, or Greece too, or France and Germany to grow to 4 or 5%. Our first customer and supplier is France and we are pleased that France is doing well; our second customer and supplier is Germany, followed by Italy, the United Kingdom and Portugal, so it is very important for us that these countries have a higher level of growth than they currently have. I've always had that very clear and it's something that's there. In Europe as a whole things will get better next year because in 2014 the growth of France and the non-growth of Italy were not positive data to help our exports. However, there has been a positive result of this negative result, and it is that just as the problems we had with consumption in Spain in the years 2012 and 2013 forced companies to export, to leave, to generate a new culture of work, it is now happening that the difficulties that may exist in some countries of the Union lead us to export to other parts of the world. If you take the figures from the beginning of this parliamentary term and compare them to today, you will see that three years ago the bulk of exports were to the euro area; today, the euro area remains the place in the world that receives the most exports from our country, but exports have also increased to other places on the planet, which is something I consider positive. In any case, I agree with you: it is not the same that the economic situation in the euro area is one or the other for the purposes of our exports, and I also agree that the solution given to the issue of Greece is important. In any case, I do not think it would generate the problems and difficulties that occurred in 2012. You spoke about austerity policy and Mrs Merkel. You can't put me as an example of a politician in favor of austerity. No, I'm in favour of common sense. I have suffered a lot with some of the things that we have had to go through throughout this legislature. It speaks of flexibility, which is what we have been demanding since the start of the legislature because it is a matter of common sense. I will give you a figure: in 2011 Spain had to have a public deficit of 6%, which was the government's commitment, and in 2012 it had to fall from 6 to 4.4; however, when we arrived at the government we found a deficit of 9. You will understand that having a deficit of 9 and in 2012 a target of 4.4, with a recession that was above, it is impossible to meet that deficit. That was the first battle I fought and I can tell you that at the first European Council, with little success, because I left there with the unfulfilled deficit target of 4.4. Yes, but then, that flexibility that you ask for and that I asked for too, came because, look, we are in 2015 and the target we had for 2014 was 5.5, that is, a 1.1 more than we had for 2012. That is, when a country takes things seriously, when a country gives the message that it is willing to fulfil its commitments, there is flexibility, there is wisdom and there is common sense. That's the experience I've had and I've moved you. In 2012, the target went from 4.4 to 6.8, which was very hard, but far more reasonable than 4.4. What is at stake is to have a Europe with levels of deficit and reasonable debt and to set also reasonable deadlines - now it has been flexible with France and Italy -. I have always defended those positions there, just as I have defended structural reforms. As far as employment is concerned, the prognosis is not believed. I make the forecast for 2015, and I say that it is perfectly achievable to reach the 20 million people working in Spain, who have already worked in our country. It is not an objective that no longer has a precedent in our country, but, I insist, it is essential for this to continue in the direction that we have set over the years. Moreover, it will now be much easier because we will no longer have to apply austerity measures as harsh as those that had to be taken in the years 2012 and 2013. You say that social measures are late. Well, yesterday I announced a package of important economic measures that relate to the self-employed, which refer to family checks for single-parent families with two children, the second chance law. We, in that desire that more than a desire was the result of an obligation to prioritize policies, said: we are going to maintain pensions, we are going to maintain unemployment spending and we are going to safeguard the fundamental pillars of the welfare state. But after having cut revenue by €70 billion, it is impossible, that is, there is no human way to do it, not to touch expenditure. Let's move now, Mr Esteban, to Greece. Greece is a subject that has generated much controversy, much dispute and many problems throughout the European Union. The first problems have been for those who have suffered most, for all Greek citizens. I thought I understood from your speech that we had not been at the forefront of support for Greece. I would like to point out and say the following: Greece is a country that has experienced enormous difficulties. Greece is a country that has asked, because it had no alternative, the European Union for a rescue. Greece is a country that today cannot go to markets, cannot be financed in the markets. The vast majority of Greek debt is held by Europe, i.e. the creditor of Greece is Europe, but Europe is the European countries: Spain, France... all countries except those subject to rescue which were only Ireland and Portugal. Greece's debt to Europe is practically Greek GDP: it is as if we had a debt of EUR 90 billion. That debt is divided into two parts, one of bilateral loans - which we already disbursed in 2010, almost 7 billion euros - which Greece has to start paying us - the main one - in thirty years. That is to say, we have given Greece a credit of almost EUR 7 billion and the Greeks start paying it in 30 years' time; and we are being paid interest. The interest paid to us is minimal and much smaller than the interest we had to ask for, to which we had to pay the credit to give it to Greece, even though here I remember the economic leader of the government at that time saying that Spain was doing a great deal. But anyway... The second part of the credit is that given to him by the MEDE. We have endorsed 18 billion of that credit. What does that mean? That if Greece does not return the money to MEDE Spain will have to put 18 billion euros. How is MEDE credit paid? The MEDE credit, the principal, begins to be paid also in thirty years; until thirty years it does not have to pay anything - the conditions are not bad -, but the interest, unlike the bilateral, where they are already being paid, begin to be paid in ten years. It is not fair to say as one has said - I do not say that you point it out - that Europe has not been in solidarity with Greece. Yes you have, because you know it's not normal to give credits with thirty years of default for the principal and then start paying interest ten years later. From there, what is it? Well, it's about playing by the rules. Because, of course, what cannot be is what was passed on to the Greek citizens in the last few months: that there would be neither a program nor a conditionality nor any need to comply with what those who had lent the money to the Greeks said. Because that doesn't make sense, and because that's profoundly unfair. That would be as much as saying: listen, I lend you money at thirty years and you do what you think is right and right. That is not fair, you know, and of course this is not how Europe is built. But above all, Europe is not built if every time there is a change of government in some European Union country, that new government wants to change the rules of play. Hey, that's not how it works! When we stop being in the government and another party assumes those responsibilities, it will have to take on the commitments we have made to European citizens, just as I have taken on the commitments of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, which is what common sense, logic and wisdom say. We have therefore supported this European Union agreement with Greece and it has been unanimously supported by all countries, but all those countries had said earlier that what Syriza had announced was not going to support it in any way, and that is why three meetings of the Eurogroup had to be held. The Eurogroup always acts unanimously. Syriza was told: this cannot be and you know that this cannot be. And Syriza had to say, well, we're going to meet the commitments. What were they? That they are obviously still supervised by the institutions, which have lent them - by the ECB, the International Monetary Fund and the Commission -; that they are still on the programme, because that is where they were - now that programme is extended as Mr Samaras had been extended - and that flexibility will be on the same terms as it has always been, as it has now been to fix the deficit in Italy and France or as it was at the time to set Spain's public deficit target. Therefore, let us be fair, we want to support Greece; we want it to go well, because that means, apart from the fact that it goes well for them, that it goes well for the whole of the European Union and therefore also for Spain, and we will be there, but we also have to ask - because it is sensible and reasonable - for the implementation of the commitments. Mr Esteban, I cannot agree with what you have said about rights and freedoms. Honestly, Spain - I said yesterday in response to some other spokesman - has many problems, but I do not believe that there is a problem of rights or public freedoms in Spain. I believe that Spain is an advanced democracy, it is a democracy that is in the European Union, with a system of rights and freedoms of the highest order, and what it is about is to secure them and to ensure that citizens can exercise them in the best possible way. The Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security merely seeks to improve the free exercise of these fundamental rights. Some things, indeed, have been rectified, but yesterday I said that saying that the right of demonstration is being violated in Spain seems to me to be an exaggerated statement, in a country where, in the last three years, more than 90,000 demonstrations have been held. I believe that in this we must all be balanced. The Criminal Code seeks to give proportionality to the criminal response and to give effect to the principle of minimum criminal intervention in order to reserve to the criminal sphere those conducts which due to their seriousness are worthy of this accusation. Thus, with the elimination of faults, those of little relevance for the injury of legal property that can be guaranteed through civil and administrative channels are excluded. I already know that you are not in favour of permanent reviewable prison and I understand it, there are many others who are not in favour of permanent reviewable prison, but there are many people who are in favour of permanent reviewable prison. This prison is justified in the proliferation of very serious crimes, especially in the area of terrorism and against life and against sexual freedom, which we believe deserve special social and criminal reproach. It is perfectly compatible - I insist, perfectly compatible - with the resocializing purpose of the sentences as it is fully verifiable in terms of the effective assumption by the offender of the values governing coexistence. I want to say that its constitutionality - we studied this issue well because we knew that it was not an easy decision and that it was also going to generate contrary positions in some parts - has been endorsed by the General Council of the Judiciary, by the Fiscal Council and by the Council of State. Moreover, it is a common measure in countries in our environment that are fully democratic, such as Italy, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, and has also been admitted by the European Court of Human Rights, which has confirmed - and this is also a positive fact - that it is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. In any case, I understand your position; we have a contrary position in this matter. With regard to the human rights plan, we often have a certain tendency to adopt many plans, but more important than adopting plans is to make decisions and implement what is reflected in those plans. We have approved the status of the victim of the crime, which I believe is an important step forward in the field of human rights, and in the Criminal Prosecution Act, which we will soon be presenting in this House, we are going to generalize the second criminal court, which was one of the requests that have been made to our country for a long time. He referred to the transfer of competences to the Basque Country. If it is on the agenda, what is happening, Mr Esteban, is that we are in the last part and there are times when it is not so easy to reach agreements. I was Minister of Public Administration in 1996 and with those responsible then, Mr Balza and Mr Ibarretxe, I had many meetings on these issues and believe me that it is not easy. In order to reach agreements, it is necessary for the two parties to agree on the same approaches. In any case, there is one thing that applies to this and it applies to what you have said, referring to the subject of what you call the plurinationality of the State. Do you know anywhere in the world a case, call it Land, call it a state in a federal state, call it the autonomous community, that has a level of self-government like that of the Basque Country? Of the world, I don't ask you about Europe, just about the world. At this point, I think it makes quite little sense to say that we are in a process of re-centralisation of nothing. The Basque Country has the hacienda, has the police, has all the social services, has the basic public services: education, health. Everything is on the agenda, as is on the agenda the quota, as is on the agenda the concert, but there are many things in which obviously it is not so easy to reach agreements. On the subject of prison policy, I will repeat to you here what I have already said on numerous occasions. At the moment, it does not seem to me to be the most positive thing to return to the past, but I want to say that prison policy will continue to apply it until the dissolution of ETA, because there is no reason for changing prison policy, none, and we will continue to maintain dispersion, among other things, to facilitate those who are in prison and members of ETA to act with genuine freedom, and we will continue to apply the legal requirements for those who want to break with the discipline of the terrorist organization, yes, yes, yes. These requirements are provided for in the law, and if they break with the terrorist organization, they will have a possibility of social reintegration, which in the case of terrorist crimes requires the unequivocal abandonment of the purposes and means of terrorist activity, collaboration with the authorities, repudiation of their criminal activities, the express request for forgiveness of their victims. This is what the law says and this is the position that we are going to maintain in the future, and, of course, the best procedure and the best system to end this, the best, and this does not put anyone in question, is that ETA announces, smoothly and flatly, that it dissolves, that it announces its dissolution and ceases to be a terrorist organization. That would save many problems for all the citizens of the Basque Country and of Spain as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u6	Mr President, I do agree with you that the economy is doing better, but, I insist, you have also acknowledged that there are data - and there are data that are not good at all - that can influence the evolution of what is going to happen. I also agree that employment is the main objective. Beyond the macroeconomic data, the question is that here there is practically, it does not arrive, 25% unemployment and the next country with the most unemployment is one of those rescued and has almost half that Spain. Therefore, it cannot be said that this goes wonderfully well and that all the measures have been fantastic and that there have been no cuts here and that nothing has happened here. Frankly, for us it is very difficult to fit what you announce now that we are going to reach practically the maximum levels of employment - we are going to call it full employment - in I think you have said four years, nothing more and nothing less, from 25%. Already for this year there is a 3% decrease with 2.4% growth. Either we're not talking about the same job or we honestly don't get numbers out. Time will tell, but of course it seems to me to be more than optimistic, too optimistic. In this sense, his speech yesterday was absolutely self-fulfilling, only came with the pink brushes, pastel tones, not even a grey, no cloud on the horizon, everything was wonderful. Moreover, I did not recognize myself in the description you made of the last three years, in the measures that had been taken. It seemed that there had been absolutely no problem here. Take a look at your speech. I didn't see a hint of criticism and I think the least that a ruler has to do - besides, I suppose you know him - is to mention what weaknesses and even mistakes have been made over the course of three years. I've never heard him say, maybe we should have done this differently. I don't understand that self-congratulation. I think she's quite attached to the announcement you make us about job creation. It recognizes me that we are in the European context, that there are shadows, that there is the whole issue of exports and that it certainly has a great influence on how the currency evolves, whether the devaluation is going to be maintained or not, etc. He said that action had been taken, that the first thing to do was the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, labour reform, restructuring of the financial system. I have to say that all these measures were forced by Europe and also by the intervention of the troika. When you enter the, let's say, bank bailout takes on a series of obligations and you start tightening the nuts. I know that you used the trick that is also going to be the Greek trick of: I propose it, but Europe approves it, I have spoken it before with Europe. The Organic Law of Budget Stability was a European imposition, as you well know. The labor reform could have been done perfectly differently, but the Tax Stability Pact that had been signed had a great influence, because in relation to that flexibility that you said you were fighting, you said there was a percentage and then it was changed. What happened was that it adapted to reality because it was seen that Spain did not arrive, but when did it adapt? It adapts very well the year, at the end of the year and because the reality forced us, with which, if we had had more margin from the beginning, it could probably have been used to have put the budgets in a different way, president, and to have given respite in some social policies that are the most suffered, not only those of his Government, also in the autonomous communities, but, of course, that data would have had to be known from the beginning. Why have we been imposing on ourselves from Europe goals that we knew could not be achieved, that it was absolutely impossible, damaging, I insist, the initial approach of the budgets themselves? It didn't make any sense. With regard to the social measures that you have announced, we have been talking in this long and extended Parliament about the second chance law and there was a broad consensus among all groups. With regard to mortgage dation, at the time it was proposed to be more generous in regulating the Mortgage Law and to contemplate the dation for at least a large percentage of families and persons who fulfilled certain characteristics. That was denied by his Government, over and over again, and now that it is election year, by chance, he appears with those measures. That would not have affected the Government, the Stability Pact or the income of the State. Why were these measures not taken before? It could have been done, Mr. President, and it wasn't done. This goes hand in hand with what I told you earlier about flexibility. I sincerely believe that in order to reach the point where we have reached, more flexible measures could have been taken that would have saved suffering for certain strata of the population. Between what Europe has forced us to do and the interference in forcing things to escape and everything to fit together, I think we've moved on to the measures. Some of the measures he has announced could have been taken long before, not in an election year. Mr President, a Criminal Code is not just any law, it is very important and a Criminal Code cannot be approved by a single party, by a large absolute majority, as a matter of principle. We are talking about human rights and freedoms. It's a very delicate text. I have to tell you that not only now, but in recent years in Spain, legislation has been enacted in criminal matters at the expense of the news and the scare that motivated certain news in the press. That can't be because, if you look at the evolution of the Penal Code, the only thing we've been dedicating ourselves to is raising penalties and penalties and creating new criminal types. Mr President, I insist that such complicated legislation, adopted by a single political party, by a large absolute majority, is not right, it is not right. You will tell me that the human rights plan is of no importance, but, listen, you have committed yourselves. Or aren't your commitments worth it? What's your word worth? What is the Parliament's mandate worth? I have spoken before about the motions for resolutions, which are supposed to be implemented as well. If you committed your vote, do what you said. He has spoken about what they have achieved and that what is important is what is done, the second criminal court. There has been a restriction of health rights to illegal immigrants, which some autonomous communities were willing to maintain and you have curtailed it. Here we could talk about many things, that some human rights issue has advanced, but others have retreated. It is normal for us to have a measuring rod and to examine how the situation is in all areas, and for that was the human rights plan, to which you committed and failed and what happened happened. Transfers. You tell me it's not easy to reach an agreement. Mr President, there has been no dialogue, and there has not even been a reply to the proposals submitted to the President of the Government. At least they could say no and we could ask why. And you, as you tell us with prison competence usually in this House, answer: because it does not give us the will, which in law is very proper. At least they could say it, give an answer, but there has not even been a reply to the proposals. As for the quota, we have had a series of meetings, it seemed that it was progressing at least in the discussion, but there everything has been forgotten and stopped, and will pass the legislature again without agreeing the law. When I talk about plurinationality and you talk about insistence on it is because there is a feeling and these areas go beyond the field of law. Why is there no problem in other European countries, such as Belgium, in recognizing that there is a Flemish nation, there is a Walloon nation and there is a German minority? Why do the British recognize that Scotland is a nation, although, as Prime Minister Cameron says: I am a unionist, but I recognize that they are a nation and that they have the right to decide their future; the Welsh are another nation, the Irish are another nation? What problem is there, given the stubborn reality - because this comes from centuries in Spanish history - to recognize that there is a plurinationality and to let there be expressions in the international sphere, in UNESCO, in the sporting sphere, in other places, because people want it this way, and that would relax many tensions, fix many things and allow the state to intertwine and articulate in a more reasonable way? But, of course, I am talking to you about these things when you are not able to do so even in the case of Treviño, two municipalities that simply want to move on from autonomous community, that again and again, year after year, decade after decade, you have asked for a referendum to move on to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and you are denying them that right. I'm still asking too much, but I want to tell you what's going on. As far as prison policy is concerned - I am finishing, Mr President, I do not want to abuse it - you say to me: we will continue to apply it until the end. Mr President, circumstances have changed. You can't do the same policy as when ETA was acting. Of course, I was the first in my speech to say that ETA has to dissolve. Before you said so myself. You cannot continue to apply prison policy as you do. You tell me: and we will continue to maintain the dispersion so that they can make individual decisions. Look, here are many ETA prisoners, some ETA prisoners who have renounced violence, who have taken a look at what has happened, who have shown their pain for the acts they have committed, who have met with relatives. And you know what happened? No prison benefits have been applied to them. No, Mr. Fernández and his Government have not applied any prison benefits to them. Moreover, they have even tried to punish them when they made public statements on a radio, for example, one of them, against ETA, simply because he had left that radio without permission to make statements against ETA. And you're talking to me about dispersal being used to then grant prison benefits? They haven't given one. The only ones who have given some prison benefit have been the supervisory judges. Mr President, you cannot go on with this policy. It makes no sense, no matter how much you are pressured - I have told you before - the most racy right of your party and inertias. There are inertias on both sides. You have to end this at once and you can do a lot, because, without changing the legislation, that legislation can be applied more intelligently, and surely it will be for everyone's benefit. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Esteban, I agree with the first part of your speech. Indeed, there are data that can affect the good development of the Spanish economy. To that extent I agree that I have already pointed out in my previous speech that we have experienced it. We have experienced oil prices that did not help, we have experienced a euro exchange rate that did not help either, we have experienced an action by the European Central Bank that is now better and more positive for our interests and for Europeans - at least in my opinion - that was at another time, we know what is happening in Greece, but I have the firm conviction that - as I pointed out earlier - things are being done in Spain in a reasonable way, and I also believe that both the price of oil, and the exchange rate of the euro, and the ECB's action are going to be maintained for a long time and I am absolutely convinced - and I will work for it - that a definitive agreement will also be reached with the Greek Government. I agree that the employment situation in Spain is bad. How am I not going to agree if I said when I came here to discuss my investiture that it was the main objective for this legislature, I said again yesterday that it is the main objective for what remains of the legislature and I also pointed out that it was the main objective for the next legislature in our country? It is clear that this is our problem and that this is the source of the vast majority of the difficulties we have experienced over the years. That is precisely why we need to be ambitious, but not ambitious in word, we need to be ambitious with policies, we need to make decisions that will help to create jobs in our country. I have to say, today we can be more optimistic than a few years ago. In the last parliamentary term we lost more than 3,400,000 jobs and in 2012 unemployment increased again. In 2013 there has already been a change in trend and in 2014, for the first time for many years, employment has been created in our country, unemployment has fallen by 478,000 people and is the first time since 2006 that unemployment has fallen in EPA terms. That is a very positive fact. And if that has been the case with an economic growth of 1.4, it is clear that this year more than 500,000 jobs will be created in our country and, if we continue to maintain the same economic policy, it is clear that it is within the reach of the Spaniards to create 500,000 jobs every year in the next four years. I'm talking about 500,000 jobs every year. We haven't been very far in 2014. I think it can be achieved if we do things right and if we maintain the same economic policy. If we embark on other stories that do not suit the general interest or are the product of ideological dreams, then we may have other kinds of problems. It can be achieved and is the challenge of the next legislature. I haven't said that it's wonderful or that it's been wonderful what's happened in the last three years. How am I supposed to say that? It has been three very hard years, when we had to make a tough fiscal adjustment, as has happened to other countries. In those three very hard years we have made many structural reforms, we have asked the Spaniards, with many people in unemployment. It has been three very hard years, but it has been three years when the Government has taken decisions that are beginning to lay solid foundations for the future. We're not well, but we're infinitely better - and that's what everyone says - than three years ago. Is there a lot left to do? I believe that, especially in the area of employment, as I have just pointed out, but we must be fair and considerate when it comes to making what kind of statements. The Organic Law on Budget Stability was not an imposition of Europe. I was at the European Council where the Fiscal Pact was voted on and we could have voted that no, because of the twenty-eight countries of the Union - I don't know if Croatia was, Croatia was not at the time - of the twenty-seven countries at the time, there were two that voted against it, one was the United Kingdom and the other the Czech Republic. Those countries did not vote for the Fiscal Pact and do not have to - and have not - make an organic law of budgetary stability and financial sustainability and will be handled as they see fit and desirable. It was no imposition, it was something we accepted here, which was first accepted by the previous Government of Spain and then accepted by the current Government of Spain. You have also made some considerations about the flexibility of the deficit, about whether something else could have been done, about whether rather than telling us that the deficit would be made more flexible by mid-2012 could have been done before. Certainly, no one is perfect and neither are the European institutions, but the truth is that I think we are taking good steps in the direction of common sense. I was the first one interested in making the deficit more flexible, because, among other things, as you will remember, here we approved the budget for that year in March 2012. So the target was still 4.4. You will tell me what kind of budget we could make in that year 2012 in our country. Anyway, there's something I'd like to remind you of. We are all in favour of the easing of the deficit, but what is to be done when one has to go to the markets to ask for EUR 90 billion, which is the situation we were in? What should be done when markets tell one that there is money or has to pay, as we had to pay, more than 7% of the ten-year bonus, when today we are paying 1.3 or 1.4? That is the problem we have experienced in Europe. Why did Portugal, Ireland or Greece have to ask for that famous ransom? Because they couldn't finance themselves. We can paint a budget and say, we enter 1,000 and we will spend 2,000, so we have to borrow 1,000, and if they don't lend them to us, it's not worth what we paint in the budget. Here too - you know - in Spain, there are public institutions that have ceased to have access to markets and there are public institutions that were asking for one-year loans paying 7.75 %. Life is difficult and often not enough with good wishes and good intentions. I am increasingly convinced that it is most sensible not to depend on anyone and therefore not to be too much, in politics, when it comes to governing, and in any facet of life, but I am not going to make a discussion on this issue because it is not the case at this time either. Could we have approved the measures before? Yes, we could have done many things before, but what no one can deny to the government is that it has not taken a few decisions on important issues, particularly in the area of structural reforms throughout this legislature. I understand what you're saying about the Penal Code, because it's my way of thinking. I think there are things that are better than being the product of big agreements and big pacts. What happens is that political dynamics often do not fit one's wishes, but the Penal Code has been in the General Courts for more than a year, precisely because it is a very important law. It has not been passed by decree-law in 24 hours, it has been more than a year, and we have accepted more than 300 amendments from different political groups. I do not know what they will or will not approve, but the People's Parliamentary Group has accepted more than 300 amendments. So, yes, it will take it out alone, but, of course, after accepting more than 300 amendments from the various political groups. My position on the right of self-determination and the Spanish Constitution is what you know. There is no country in the world that has a written constitution that recognizes the right of self-determination. In its day there was that of the Soviet Union, that of then Yugoslavia and that of Ethiopia, but there is no written constitution in the world that recognizes that right, which on the other hand seems very reasonable to me. In relation to the Basque Government there are indeed some issues that are pending. But, of course, apart from saying what is not there, someone has to say what was there, and it seems to me that that role is mine, unless you want to assume it, which on the other hand could do it and there would be no problem. The rules of procedure of the Arbitration Board of the Concert have been amended to adapt them to the latest amendments, and new taxes of state ownership have been agreed. This is important. These are new taxes, such as the tax on deposits by credit institutions, the tax on the production of spent nuclear fuel, the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases, the tax on fire activities, and the retention of the special tax on lottery prizes. In other words, progress has also been made. We have not achieved one hundred percent of the goals you have set, but several of them, and some things have been done. There are discrepancies in the quantification of the quota; obviously there are. We will seek an agreement, we will have to reach an agreement, but as I said yesterday talking about autonomous financing, the situation it has been going through, and it is still going through, our country in budgetary terms - that terrible news of the loss of 70 billion euros of revenue that I have heard so many times, and that it was above all what has generated, together with other problems, the budgetary problems that we have here - has prevented us from changing the model of autonomous financing; instead we have put in place the FLA, the payment plan to suppliers, and we have also modified the Concert. We have made some decisions and you have sometimes asked me questions about infrastructure. Next Friday we will approve the agreement authorizing the conclusion of the contract for the execution of the works of the construction project of the high-speed platform Vitoria-Bilbao - the Mondragon-Bergara section, Zumelegi sector -, the agreement authorizing the conclusion of the contract for the execution of the works of the Elorrio-Bergara section, and also the project for the construction of the platform of the Elorrio-Elorrio section. This is one of the priorities of the Spanish Government, as you know, and at a time of great budgetary difficulties we have been able to continue working. I am not going to repeat or re-explain to you - because you know them perfectly well, even if you have not told us - the decisions we have taken on railways, roads, and ports, but I do have to say that the Basque Country has been on the government's agenda throughout this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is now the turn of the Joint Group, and first of all Mr Quadra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, recovery. This is the word of fashion on the part of the government, but what is next to be asked is: yes, but, of whom and for whom? [[The lady]] A few months ago, the Vice President of the Government told us in Valladolid that nothing was needed but to go out on the street to see people how happy they were. This was said by 500 entrepreneurs - hooligans who looked like Manchester - who applauded her for being very happy and happy. The multinationals of Ibex 35 are being supplied; the managers earn millions; the bankers, when they retire, take compensations of tens of millions of euros. It's a fact. Last year the sale of luxury cars worth more than 60,000 euros was increased by 50%. These people, Mr. Rajoy, you're very happy, you're recovering. But, of course, the people below, of joys, of which the vice-presidency saw, few. Salaries lose purchasing power, pensions and social benefits are reduced, which were previously mileurist contracts later became garbage contracts and are now already detritus contracts; 27 per cent of the population is at risk of poverty and exclusion. Madam Vice President, where do you see here the joyous thing, the recovery? It's a small example, but it's up to me. Faurecia, a company in Navarre, owned by multinationals, from one day to the next, simply closes. Not that it goes wrong, it's that taking it to the countries of the East will get more benefits. Two hundred workers on the street, two hundred broken families. There is no one laughing there, Madam Vice President; there is no recovery there, no one sees it anywhere. And there's no more unemployment and more poverty because people leave, they open, they freak out. Every year hundreds of thousands of migrants return to their countries, and tens of thousands of young people go abroad. The ministers of the matter, Mr Montoro and Mr De Guindos, tell us that exports are going well. What exports this country the most is people, with names and surnames, with faces, with faces, people who have to leave, who have to flee this country. The Spanish brand certainly razes; the employer more; and women tail. Cuts in social services, education and health have to be supplied with domestic work, child care work, girls, the elderly, grandparents. Women, queens of precariousness and queens of broken homes, forced psychiatrists of all family neuras. The women in line. Mr Rajoy, by chance, why in all your hour and a half speech did you not at all mention the abortion bill, which you and your government had to swallow with potatoes and Minister Gallardon included - which I often stumble upon that for a cooked -? Why didn't you say any of this? It was a very important project. Nor did he say anything about corruption. It is the second cause of concern of the citizenry, it is said by all the surveys that are carried out, and it is the first cause of concern of his party. He could have transferred some of his problems to share it with us all. Don Emilio Botín, before leaving anyone knows to which of Dante's seven hells, affirmed that Rodrigo Rato had been the best minister of the monarchy. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!]] He who was former vice president of the People's Party government with Aznar, former director of the International Monetary Fund, ex de Telefónica, ex de Banco Santander, ex de Bankia, has been the best minister of the monarchy. What will this monarchy - I say - be like to have this person accused of various crimes as an example? Speaking of the monarchy, the king, in his Christmas speech, had an intervention on the subject of corruption, he was concerned about the subject, he was seen, he was gaining in his role. May the only person in the whole State who has no obligation whatsoever to declare his wealth, his oil business and his profits lecture us on matters of corruption, which has fabric and faces the thing! Corruption, Mr Rajoy, is structural in this regime. That's how we see it, Amaiur. It affects the royal house, it passes through the main parties, through many autonomous governments, many of them from its party, through trade union bureaucracies, and it is ending these days in Gasteiz affecting one of its ministers, who was mayor there, in that city. Here, from Franco, and now too, the private is confused with the public; the private pocket and the budget line of others are often quite held by hand in many of the communities in which you are. That is why we think that in order to end corruption, what is needed is a deep democratic consolidation, a democratic rupture ultimately, so that the institutions can be oxygenated, to disinfect them, which is lacking. Mr Rajoy, the counter-reform you have practiced during these three years has had two faces. In the first, we saw the socio-economic aspect: labour reform, pension reform, budget cuts in social items, etc. In this second, we are seeing the same thing, but with the issue of rights and freedoms, which are being cut. In three months: - Guinness - December, Law gag; January, Penal Code; February, Anti-Terrorist Law, you call it anti-jihadist, I would call it anti-dissidence law. Three laws; three packages. Before yesterday, only five UN human rights rapporteurs, five, have put these three laws to death, pointing out that fundamental rights are being curtailed, and they have asked you to withdraw these projects. Mr Rajoy, what are you going to do about this request from these five rapporteurs? Are you going to do something? Because this is being told by the UN, it's not being told by Amaiur. With these laws you seek only to shield this regime, which is cracking down on many sites, and which is receiving strong social, political, institutional and sovereignist attacks. You want to put a straitjacket on this regime, with all these laws so they don't break down. Here's what's there. Mr. Rajoy, you also studied this in the race. [[Show a document]] It is the Francoist Public Order Act: small, fifty articles, twenty-five pages of nothing. Public order, state of emergency and state of war are regulated here. Compare. [[Show another document]] This is the gag law, the amendments to the Criminal Code that affect rights and freedoms, and its Anti-Terrorism Act. Do you know what this is? Surveillance Democracy, Police State, George Orwell, 1984. Rule of law, no; State of waste. That is what Amaiur thinks of this, because fundamental rights and freedoms are being subjected with his Government to the sacred divinity of what is citizen security, and citizen security is being subject to police action, police criteria, and police criteria in many cases are subject to the electoral and even media interests of his Government. We know many police raids based strictly on your media interests, Mr. Rajoy. Police state. For Franco peace was synonymous with victory, it is well known: honors and monuments for those fallen by God and Spain, and common coves and pits for the rest. That's what he was playing, authoritarian imposition, denial of rights and freedoms, both for people and for people. Today you in Euskal Herria are implementing a similar policy. Today in Euskal Herria, Mr Rajoy, look at him wherever he looks at him, there is only one kind of political violence left: the political violence of the State, of his Government, of his Civil Guard, of his National Police, and of his judiciary. Here's what there is: illegalizations, arrests, trials, jail, dispersion. You have spoken of dispersion, look where; for a Basque prisoner or a Basque prey to be in the Port of Santamaría or to be in Vitoria it is the same. The cells of 10 square meters, the courtyards of 60 square meters, the regime of isolation is the same in one prison as in another, the dispersion does not affect you, except with the use you make perverse regarding your relatives. You hit your relatives, your sons and daughters five, six, eight years old, who are going to visit you; your parents seventy-five, eighty-five who have to move 1,500 kilometers or 2,000 kilometers to see you. This is sadistic, Mr Rajoy: beating the family members, beating the friendships in order, indirectly, to get revenge on the prisoners, and this has to end. Today, as yesterday's regime, the existing regime is in crisis; it is beginning to speak of a second transition, of a constituent process, and we have the obligation - at least those of us who have some reeds and a certain age - to remember how also in his day was involved in cellophanes and beautiful words that trick transition and that hypocritical constitution, and of those muds these muds, or of these muds those muds, that I do not know how the phrase goes. The treatment you have given to the Catalan sovereignist process is anchored in an authoritarian past that denies all kinds of rights. You not only deny the right of self-determination and the right to decide, you also deny the right to make a simple consultation, you deny the right to make a simple participatory process of people. What we have in front of us is a francocracy. And in relation to Euskal Herria we are imposing reforms and laws above the very large political, institutional, trade union and social majorities existing in our people. In Navarre, we've had thirteen laws laid down. This is not democracy, this is francocracy. Neither Franco nor Amadeo Marco dared to do these things in Navarre. That is why Amaiur wants to state that any exit that is intended to give to this situation, and I look at some banks and others, if it is not based, based on a democratic rupture against those anchorages, if it is not based on a profound social reform, if it is not based on the right to decide, and the right to decide is only that no one decides for us, if it is not seated in any of this, will not have our support but the opposite. I'm done, Mr. President. It is a pity - and I say this to you consciously because it is up to me to suffer much of your policy, to myself and to many people there in Euskal Herria - that this year it has been completely wasted also for peace, to open doors to peace, to democratic normalization. You, instead of taking a step forward, have taken quite a few steps back. You - and you see from afar - have been seeking to blow up the process initiated unilaterally in our people. They were more comfortable in the former situation of violent conflict, because that allowed them to cover up all their broken parts and all their loose ends, which are now being exposed. The Basque people see them coming. Their repression is overly gross, chabacan, they see coming, and they won't get away with it. In the face of this path, yours, there is another, the path of dialogue, of mutual recognition of the different violence and of the different victims that there has been. To recognize it among all, to look at the future, not the past; to get that future to sit on pillars that prevent anything from happening is what we work on, that's what we're driving, that's what we're doing unilaterally. We're not making anything up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u11	Mr. Quadra, go finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u12	Ten seconds. In short, Mr Rajoy, it is the process that has taken place in South Africa, Ireland, Central America, Colombia, with far more serious conflicts. Mr. Rajoy, forget about the Francoist politics of victory, because they'll never have it. We have the hand stretched out to advance on paths of peace and democratic normalization. Join us on this path.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u13	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. For the same group, Mr Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President of the Government, farewell with the heart that I cannot with my soul. Today I bid farewell to my last general policy debate, which I hope will also be for the majority of Catalans. I'm telling you, with the soul I can't because, what kind of society were you talking about yesterday exactly? From Shangri-La? From Camelot? From the new Icaria? The garden of Eden? Arcadia? Yesterday we attended in this house a festival of light and illusions, a show Son et lumière around the figure of pharaoh Mariano I. It turns out that jobs are now created to millions, who have saved pensioners who were in danger, who have generated an unparalleled growth. And a little modesty and self-criticism? When you talk about the million jobs, are you talking about those that were lost until 2013? Are you talking about those? When does it refer to pensioners also refer to older people living alone, of whom 50% live below the poverty line? Will they reject us again tomorrow - we propose - an initiative for the creation of an anti-poverty fund? Because there isn't; there's no poverty, right? That's it. And when you refer to the fight against fraud, you are talking about the EUR83 billion that you miss the tax, and that could increase the collection by 25% without raising taxes? You mean that? Bad management, Mr Rajoy; bad management. And they already get to the delirium when they talk about fighting corruption. Now they're gonna do it right, starting tomorrow it's gonna be all clean, but what about yesterday's crap? Do we hide it under the carpet? Do you like the appearances of the Pujol case in Catalonia? I do. Well, here too, Mr. Rajoy; here too. We have proposed this; we have proposed a committee of inquiry more than once. Do as Artur Mas, allow it, and show up. You will say that everything seems wrong to us, that we see everything black, that we do not make proposals; what you always say. False. Now I'll tell you something that might surprise you. Since we are here we have proposed austerity measures and cuts; quite a few. We are Republicans, we therefore believe in administrative sobriety, yes, but not to harm the most needy, the hospitals, the schools, the unemployed, the elderly; but yes austerity measures that affect the Crown, military spending. For example, proposal: the 650 million euros, which is what costs the submarine of the series Navantia S-80, instead of spending them on a submarine, on a single submarine, why don't they invest it in things like finishing the station of La Sagrera, in Barcelona, which has the city gone and legs up? Why? That's a proposal. Why don't we save where we can, where we should? Or, for example, the rescue of private banks. That is our austerity, it can be done, they do it elsewhere; that you do not share it and do not practice it is something else, but do not say that we come here orphaned by proposals, because it is not true. Nor are you really the flag of democratic freedoms, as you preach. They object to women's right to decide, to freedom of expression and demonstration, to return to life imprisonment, and to prevent an entire people from voting on their future. I recognize that yesterday you advanced in something, yes, you advanced in something: you admitted that November 9 in Catalonia had happened; Bravo! That people had voted on independence; bravo! And that you, the power, the government of the state had proved powerless to avoid that democratic holiday. Don't worry, I don't think that'll get you out of the plasma world in which you live happily. But now I suggest one more step: acknowledge that a referendum on independence will be held on 27 September, and there will be a vote on yes and no, even their supporters will go to vote on it. Recognize it, it will not take another six months to recognize that obviousness. And from there - you know it - if we win the yes we will apply a road map for the democratic constitution of the Catalan Republic. And before that you will do nothing, you will not be able to do anything, you will be as helpless as November 9, because, what do you have planned? Nothing, right? Or will they want to expel us like Judge Santi Vidal, expelled for writing a constitutional essay? How sad and ridiculous! Since they cannot stop an entire people, they charge a just and idealistic man while in the Community of Madrid and in other instances they keep irregular payments, to jurists, to indecent scarves that attack the separation of powers. Yesterday you told us about Spain of the PP, of that wonderful country that goes back to great troubles,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u15	Mr. Bosch, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u16	I'm done right now, President. ...and lamented the Catalan nightmare. Look, you've got it very easy: let go of the ballast. Let go of that enormous burden that causes you to regret, don't be a gentleman of the sad figure, Mr. Rajoy. Get out of here! Dare to fly! I say it with my heart: make up for it, Mr. Rajoy! Make up your mind! I'm sure we'll continue to be great friends: you in the wonderful kingdom of Candy Crush, and I'll go back to Barcelona, which is where I belong after all. Goodbye, Mariano Rajoy, goodbye. We are going to a better, fairer, more prosperous country. Nothing, I'll see you at the UN. Good wind and new boat! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bosch. For the same group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, your Government has devoted itself to bittering the lives of citizens since the beginning of its term of office. They have ruled against the population, and yesterday they came to this debate to boast of their successes as if the policy of cuts had no consequences. Your intervention was, Mr Rajoy, an insult in every rule to the social majority. But the real thing is that your Government, Mr. Rajoy, has been and is a devastating government, a devastating government for the rights and well-being of people, a government obsessed only with rescuing the bank and reducing the deficit, for which they did not hesitate to owe the State and to draw up a hard package of social cuts. You can assume that the financial sector has overcome the crisis, and that together with the big fortunes has increased its profits: 18% in 2014. But the BNG cannot congratulate you, because while they have become rich, the social majority have become impoverished. You are responsible for 66% of the state's population being at risk of exclusion, according to a Caritas report; and for only 34% living in conditions of full social integration, when in 2007 the figure was 50%. And the rate of child poverty is among the largest in the European Union, only surpassed by Romania. At the end of this term, Mr Rajoy, you will leave a desolating picture: the health worse than thirty years ago; a decadent and unequal educational system, and you will have eroded university quality; you virtually eliminated the Unit Law - in Galicia 120 million euros less in the last two years -; you have severely damaged social services; you have approved costly judicial fees that have pushed justice away from citizens. And what about your labor reform, which has been the cause of job insecurity? Not only are there more unemployed than when they began to rule, 57,000 jobs in Galicia compared to before the law was passed, but the job created, which you presume and which you have said was going to be created so much in the coming years, is precarious, insecure, low-wage, and on top of it has increased tremendously the wage gap and women have receded years in terms of work and equality. This Government has the privilege of being the great promoter of the new emigration, which affects especially young people, such as Galicia: young people with high qualifications, scientists who emigrate in search of the opportunities that their Government denies them, while denying scientific and technological advances. Mr Rajoy, these are just a few examples of the gloomy reality that you leave us. A reality as a result of its erratic policy of austerity, of socio-economic cuts. In the face of its austerity, there are alternatives, and since the BNG we have put forward proposals to increase revenues, such as a more progressive tax reform, with new taxes on big fortunes and financial transactions, a more equitable system and more serious to higher incomes. During its government, civil society was forced to constantly mobilize against its unjust policies, which caused more unemployment; we are almost 24%, despite the fact that over two million people have emigrated in recent years. Mobilizations for evictions, for preference, for pensions of returned emigrants, for health cuts, and for an endless number of social problems that, together with the opposition work that we have carried out groups such as the BNG, have prevented the situation from getting even worse. A logical and legitimate citizen protest that his Government had criminalized, repressed and tried to eliminate with instruments such as the law gags, which was typical of pre-democratic times and without rights. As for Galicia, Mr Rajoy, your Government has been null and void. What to say about the operation of the waste of the Galician boxes with the aim of handing over the financial power and our savings to the private sector and to the oligopolies! They prevented Galicia from having a public or semi-public financial system, as we proposed from the BNG, once the Galician box was rescued with public money, but chose to sell it at a balance price. They have practiced pure propaganda in all the General Budgets by inflating the items destined for investments in our country, which have not been implemented - in 2014, for example, they have not been implemented by more than 40% -; we refer to both environmental, road and rail investments. In exchange for an AVE that never arrives, paralyzed in several stages and to which they have lowered conditions, we suffer the dismantling of our internal network, saturation and the abusive price in half distance and the absence of proximity. At the same time, we suffer from the despotic policy of an AP-9 dealer who denies us quality services and undermines the competitiveness of our companies. Navantia. The installations of our civil ship in Fene - already without the EU veto - continue to deteriorate, the auxiliary industry agonizing and the social, economic and labor situation of Ferrolterra, with more than 34% unemployment, has become unsustainable, while you continue to get no workload and continue to look elsewhere. Just like the dairy sector, which continues to wait for a fair price to be guaranteed for milk at source. Galician milk would be worth 30 million more if the same prices were paid as in the rest of the state. The coastal fisheries sector has been subject to constant quota reductions which prevent fishing from being profitable. And only after, Mr Rajoy, that the BNG and the sector itself complained to the EU Committee on Fisheries about the injustice of banning art, was this government willing to act. They have left the canning industry defenceless from unfair competition for the elimination of tariffs by the European Union to third countries. The data, Mr Rajoy, on the disastrous management that they have done in the case of Alvia and that are observed every day are overwhelming and explain the real reason why they have been denied from the first moment to the ever more necessary commission of inquiry that we from the BNG continue to claim, Mr Rajoy, along with the victims of the accident and their relatives. [[Fernández Davila shows a sign, in which she says: "115,000 signatures. 81 deceased and more than 140 high-speed wounded claim Congressional Investigation Commission. Truth and justice"]] Investigation of Alvia already!, as we say in Galicia. In terms of language, the State, in line with what Xunta herself does, has taken us back forty years ago and has contributed significantly to undervaluing our language, preventing Galician citizens from exercising their most fundamental linguistic rights, recently in the government delegation in A Coruña. I'm finishing up, Madam President. With regard to the model of State, it was reprehensible that the Government had involution because it had denied and impeded the right to decide and re-centralized powers, constantly invading autonomous responsibilities. The Local Government Act is an example. The more efforts are made to deny the multi-nationality of the State, the more efforts will be made by the Galician nationalists to defend the identity and rights of our nation, Galicia. I am running out of time, Mr President, to address the stubbornness of corruption that presides over your term of office and that affects your party, a corruption that you have not only not faced but also maintains a clear connivance that makes you, at least, an accomplice to it. Act, Mr President, on this issue too. And since I have no more time, Mr President, I simply want to say that we hope that your Government, neither you nor your party will repeat it and that the next parliamentary term will indeed be a recovery legislature and not, again, a legislature to remove public rights and services from the citizenry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. By the same group, Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the state of the nation is much more important than others because we are taking stock of the legislature, which has meant four years of government by the People's Party. With the time I have, I will give concrete expression to the intervention in two parts: a first to take stock of what happened to the commitments that Mr Rajoy made in the investment debate with the Canary Islands, which were seven in particular; and the second part in what remains of the legislature, what we ask the Canary nationalists, Coalition Canaria and Nueva Canarias, to the Government of Spain. Today we can say, three and a half years after the investiture debate, that the PP government has turned into wet paper not only the commitments you made in the investiture debate, but all the economic aspects of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, those that match us to the rest of the Spaniards, those that cover the cost of insularity and remoteness, costs that continue to exist, whether there is crisis or there is no crisis. The Canary Islands has had the same cuts as the rest of the autonomous communities, but apart from the cuts in the costs of remoteness and insularity. I'm starting. Tourism infrastructure plan. You promised to keep it, today you have eliminated it, but not for economic reasons; the same year you eliminate it creates the Tourism Infrastructure Plan for the municipalities of the Costa del Sol. Is that a political decision or an economic decision? You committed to maintaining the specific air rates for the Canary Islands; you eliminate them and, yes, create a bonus for the winter air rates for the Balearic Islands. Is that an economic decision or a political decision? You committed yourself to maintaining the agreements on roads, employment and coasts; employment plans have disappeared today, the road agreement has fallen by 70% and those on coasts are virtually non-existent. That's right, millionaire investments on the coast of Alicante and in the Balearic Islands, a road agreement with Galicia with investments in the General Budgets of the State and 90 million for the Balearic Islands. Are those economic or political decisions? Mr Rajoy, you committed yourself to the Posei aid, to the subsidy for the transport of goods and to the transport of bananas; the Posei aid has disappeared, the aid for transport has fallen by 70% and the aid for the transport of bananas is not known. Mr Rajoy, the cost of insularity is permanent, whether or not there is a crisis, and that is why the European Union maintains its policies with the Canary Islands, but the government of the State does not understand it. And now I'll talk about the only thing he's accomplished. The fiscal aspects of the REF have been approved, of course, with a good joint negotiation between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands in Brussels. We can only rejoice and value him. But, Mr Rajoy, the most important part remains, the economic aspects of the REF, and in the months that we have left of the legislature, it would be important for this negotiation to be carried out with the same will. I am not talking about budget items, I am talking about concepts that have an extra cost, which is quantified and there is consensus between employers, trade unions and all political forces in the Canary Islands, including the PP, such as waste management, the deployment of telecommunications, the cost of innovation and development, or vocational and university education. Leaving that negotiation closed for the next legislature is important, and I am convinced that you can now commit to political forces and the Canary Islands on a vital issue. The other topics I wanted to raise are very simple. Connectivity of the Canary Islands. We need to ensure that the planned investments of the airports are secured in the face of the privatisation process of AENA, we need a different airport rate policy and we need an improvement in the price of the Canary Islands tickets, with an important negotiation culminating in the Minister of Development. On the other hand, we are concerned about the Juncker Plan, we have no information, but you have outlined some lines. It was an important plan to act against unemployment and, if it is going to focus on the communication nodes with France and Portugal both of AVE and electrics, the Canary Islands will not be, with Canary Islands being the most unemployed community, 31%. We need a specific plan because this was to create jobs. You said in that investiture debate that we must treat unequally those who are unequal. I remind you today, and I tell you one thing, the Canary Islands has a lot of possibilities to contribute to the state. We need the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Economy and you to sell the fiscal aspects of the REF in all those meetings that you have outside. We need the Canary Islands to be the point of business with Africa, and not only in investments but in the location of many investments and in that connectivity where Fifth Freedom is so important. Mr Rajoy, you liked it very much - and I finish, Madam President, thank you very much - a poem by a canary poet who recited to you in this debate of investiture, which said: I went to the sea for oranges something that the sea does not have. I put my hand in the water, hope keeps me. And I say to him as a canary that the Canary Islands still have hope of finding oranges in that sea of the People's Party government, even in the nine months that remain of the legislature, because everything I have proposed to you for these nine months has no budgetary date; what you are willing to do is to work together for the community that has fulfilled the deficit, which has grown by 2% and has had the best tourist season but which still has 31 % unemployment. Let us work together to bring this community forward on an equal footing with the rest of the autonomous communities, because remoteness and insularity are permanent. Mr Rajoy, let's find oranges in your sea of government. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u21	By the same group, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Not yet a substitute for the shame and indignation that produced me the speech of the caloret of Rita Barberá, yesterday I freaked with her, reminded me of the mayor of Valencia when in Fallas pronounces the mythical phrase: Lord pyrotechnic, can begin the mascletà. And you fired your mascleta, a noisy mascleta of numbers and figures: The worlds of Yupi, yeah!, but you forgot people, you hid another reality. That is why in this debate, which will be the last of bipartisanism, I have allowed myself to elaborate a small abecedary; an abecedary of his deliberate forgetfulness. [[Begins to display a sign with each letter of the abbey]] With the a: you forgot about the tax amnesty, a measure that was for the middle classes, right? With the bee: this one is full of PP faces, PP box B, black cards, Bankia, Bárcenes, Luis Bárcenes. With ce, of corruption: we are on the tail of R & D+i, instead, we are champions in number of imputed, more than a hundred on my land. With that of: this is a letter that you forgot a lot: public debt, 30 billion euros more since you ruled; inequality, OECD country where it has increased the most; evictions, second chance, for when the law of donation in payment?, do not the banks leave you, Mr Rajoy?; Dependency, how many dependents have died without charge? With the e, of emigration: not a single word of emigration neither of the young nor of the scientists, nor a single word, 218,000... Excuse me, President... [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u23	Please, is there a doctor in the room? We suspend the session for five minutes. [[Pause]] The meeting was resumed. Mr. Baldoví is being treated by the house's medical service and is beginning to recover. Thank you to all the doctors and deputies for their cooperation. We move on to the next speaker, Mr Álvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u24	Wait a minute, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Please, I beg you to remain silent. Come in. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I want our colleague and friend Joan Baldoví to recover soon from this small accident he has had. Today we are celebrating perhaps the most important political debate in this House. It is the last debate on the state of the nation for this government and for this opposition. You too, Mr Rajoy, have here applied your thesis on savings and austerity, joining the summit and this debate. Anyway, I don't have much time and, as you're already crying here, I don't follow on this subject. Are we better than three years ago? Have you fulfilled the confidence that the voters have given you? His opinion is very optimistic and unique in electoral time, although he acknowledges, at least, that this electoral time has not yet reached many citizens. In that case, what will those who listen to us think? My starting point is that the political, social and economic landscape has little to do with that of four years ago. I admit the achievements, I warn you, and I ask you that there be no more promises and deceptions; it is time to stop the machine. He wrote not long ago a brilliant Basque essayist and sociologist, Joseba Arregi, referring to the force of history, that the denial or omission of what we learn from history, if we let her speak and do not resort to adulterating her with a distorting presentism, produces the perverse effect of not detecting the new. I believe, Mr President, in the need to overcome the present and immediate exhilaration of hardships, hyperboles and flattery and to think of a renewed country, in a better country, with projects and behaviours of a better public exemplary. By the way, he has devoted two minutes to this subject in an hour and thirty-five minutes speech and in some references of replica to his neighboring opponents let's call them a stork. We have a multi-causal explanation present, Mr. Rajoy, in which visionary leaders have appeared educated on the consequences of radical capitalism and with a goal easily sold from the government. It's the sale of the impossible. The new preachers and communicators of Marxist-Leninist brand and Latin American court promise to achieve utopia with the flag of the Unworthy of the world, united!, in a paraphrase of the Communist Manifesto of 1848, of Marx and Engels, and have counted on the irresponsibility, desidiy, apathy and excessive worship of the golden calf of a sector of the political class that bathes in the golden pond of the absolute majority and in the comfortable opposition of the bipartisan building. The vehicle used is sentimental emotion, irrationalism of romantic cut, the foundation of the policies of the nineteenth century. And I think we need to do political pedagogy and not just technocratic management. That's my personal warning. In this landscape, a few days ago the famous CIS moved us all to the stage of great concerns: unemployment, the economic situation and corruption. Let's get into them. I recognize that economic measures, to which you have devoted more than 45 minutes of your speech, are beginning to prosper and I would like to acknowledge the goodness of some indicators, but, Mr Rajoy, the economic and political blindfold leaves many sequels, and last-minute promises such as those listened to are not enough, seeking the citizen's vote, although they imply non-compliance with the State's General Budgets in the first two months of their implementation. I did not hear you justify in the House why you did not keep your promises of election and investiture, as in the education section, Mr Rajoy; I did not hear you say anything about the promise of tax cuts or increases in the CPI of pensions; do not break the welfare state in health, education and social services; maintain judicial independence; change the financing of autonomy; primacy in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency and the exemplaryness of the rulers. However, cases of corruption and enrichment of individuals and groups already occupy all the letters of the abbey, including the illegal financing of the party itself and others and, more importantly, of many leaders and leaders. Asturias is also to collide in this with the cases Marea, Niemeyer, Villa, El Musel and Pokemon. This is the state of the nation as I see it, and in this silhouette of Spain you, Mr President, have a good share of responsibility with your reductionist indifferentism; I call it reductionist indifferentism. Asturias, in this context, moves away from Spain in growth and employment. The GDP differential in the period 2011-2014 is 6.5 points; unemployment increased to 100,000 Asturians, of whom 48,000 have no coverage, and the activity rate differential is 8.14 points. Does this not relate to the stagnation of infrastructure in Spain and isolation from the rest of Spain and Europe? Is it true, Mr President, that you do not believe that another Asturias is possible with other objectives, other priorities and other majorities? I'd like to know your answer to that. I would not like to end without a special, very special request, Mr Rajoy. Pay what you owe by court order to the mining funds. Study the conventions one by one, but pay what you owe before you leave, in any case before the end of the legislature, because so it began, with this measure. In addition, Minister Soria's statements are provocative, tremendously provocative. I'm done. In what has been right I congratulate you, but in what I have described I ask you for a new model of government and especially a new model of addressing voters, with the truth ahead....
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u25	Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I am finishing, Madam President. ...and no more mendacious promises in Asturias and Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u26	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. By the same group, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too am sure that our colleague Joan will be perfectly fine. Mr President, today, in this last debate, we should all explain how we wanted to face these hard years of crisis, change, challenges and threats. We, the Union of the Navarro People, as well as you and your party, have been given the most complicated role at this time, that of having to torment the crisis. Others have preferred to see bulls from the barrier either for comfort, or for disloyalty with the project of Spain, or simply because, Mr Rajoy - now that we are alone - we recognize that against the right, against UPN, against PP, we live much better. We make a commitment to the citizens. We have signed a pact with you and supported those reforms that we believed served the goal of leaving the country better than we found it, and we have done so with loyalty and autonomy. We have tabled more than 160 amendments to 28 bills, of which 171 have been dealt with in this house. No group with Navarra participation has been more active. We have maintained our own position on important issues - right to life, education, judicial fees, renewable energy -, we have also helped to reach agreements that positively affect Navarra - Economic Convention, VAT, investments, reduction of institutional conflict or the fight against radicalism - and we have at this time explained the complex, very complex political reality of Navarra, defending its current constitutional status against the continuing attacks of secessionists and anti-foralists. We have done so, Mr President, because we firmly believe that an integrated Navarre in Spain is the best guarantee of prosperity for all and because we know that under the yoke of radicalism we live worse, objectively worse. In the euskaldun gulag only the like euskaldunes fit. Not even José Javier Múgica, councillor of UPN in Leitza, Euskaldun pro, vascopalante, cabía. ETA killed him. Because in that gulag life, freedom and democracy are very relative, they are only for some. In order to get an idea of the political abnormality that still persists in Navarre, the candidate of Amaiur to preside over the outside community in these elections, when he was one of the official leaders of Herri Batasuna, in an assembly of Batasuna-ETA called the Oldartzen Ponencia, voted in favour of socializing terror. Have you repented? Come on, he's so proud. I'm sure he thinks he already plays an ETA-affiliated government in Navarre today, that is, he finally picks up the nuts from the cohabitation tree that ETA always wanted to cut. What is serious, Mr President, is that not only in Navarre are there today voices of breaking the spirit of concord that illuminated the 1978 Constitution and the transition. I think that is the great novelty that we must face in such an election year. While some repudiate the current constitutional system, others will have to restore their historical meaning: to progress together, to respect differences, to respect the adversary and to want to live in peace. I tell you that we, my party, are not going to stay in the mockery of history, as others do, waiting placidly for the end of the legislature and murmuring, putting bad faces, getting angry almost, when the most positive predictions are fulfilled. We help the socialist government when historical circumstances required it, and we do so now for the same reason with the People's Party. It is true that some serious problems remain without a definitive solution, it is true - it happens with employment, which remains the highest priority - but we cannot deny the efforts that all administrations of all colours have made to lay the new foundations for more sustainable public management. I hope, Mr President, here and in Navarre we can recover a broad space, a political space of moderation and respect that integrates a great social majority that today seems somewhat numbed around the debate of the great challenges, the real challenges of our country. In this historical context, Navarra society remains, not without effort and rigour, in the best prosperity ratios of our country - lower unemployment rate, better results in PISA, greater public spending on social benefits, education and health - and our commitment, Mr President, is to work to keep it that way for many years. You said it yesterday and you're right, the improvements are not irreversible and it does matter who rules and how rules, so I must reiterate once again that this is our goal, this is our horizon and this is our political guide. My party will support what it understands serves that irrevocable goal, in the same way that we hope that the proposals that serve to generate wealth and well-being in Navarre and that come from Navarre will have the respect and support of its Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u28	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Finally, Mrs Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u29	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, for focusing matters, what we are doing today is a legislative balance sheet, a legislature that gave them an absolute majority not on their own merits - the numbers in that are very stubborn - but on the apathy of the state left that led the Socialist Party at the time. I don't think you've read that. He has not only cast the political weight of austereicide on his party's shoulders, but he has denied society the possibility of having built together the exit from the crisis, because in it we continue; we continue in crisis, even if you strive to take the radish by the leaves of the macroeconomy. It is true that the data are real, it is true that they make up an important part of reality, but it is no less true that they do not make up it as a whole, so it is not a fair reading. Let's see the panorama you drew us that December 2011 and how the data are today. You were talking about 23% of the unemployed working population; today we are at 23.7%. Youth unemployment was 46%; today 51.8%. Social Security affiliations have fallen these years, it is true that in 2014 they have grown by 2.5, but this year only in January they have fallen by 1.2. Almost nothing, Mr. Rajoy. The Spanish economy has grown in the last year, it is true, but at the cost of what? Maybe paychecks? Because according to data from the National Statistical Institute, the average wage has fallen by 40%, Mr Rajoy, by 40%. The public deficit in the year you came to the government was around 6% of GDP, today is 4.7, and once again, President, at what cost? Because it has not been through the new revenues that you have obtained this data, but through the cuts, impoverishing even more the most disadvantaged and playing numbers with the welfare state. Finally, public debt. He criticized his predecessors for squandering at the time of containment - this is his bet - when public debt rose from 37% of GDP in 2007 to 69% in 2011. Well, today we're at 97%. The summary of the government's move in terms of public debt is that we have risen from 69% to 97% of GDP. And all this, I insist, playing numbers with the welfare state. Can you state that we are facing the achievement of your austerity policies? I answer: no, not at all. Mr. Rajoy, I don't find anything when I tell you that with the macro you don't pay for light, water, or heating in a house with children or older people. I do not find anything, nor do I pretend, when I tell you that with the macro you do not eat, but I want to remind you, because you have forgotten it; you seem to have forgotten it in a speech in which you should have appeared to make a real balance of your work, but you have limited yourself to the sad task of raising the spirits of your troops and turning your back on society as a whole. A society to which its austerity policies have given less attention to dependency, less attention to the victims of gender-based violence - certainly, not to mention the issue in its intervention -, cuts in the heading for unemployment subsidies, cuts in active employment policies, cuts in the design of industrial policies. So, Mr Rajoy, in this Spain that you quote from economic growth, the truth is that relocation is still taking place. Companies are still leaving the industry. The case of Faurecia in Navarre was cited here, a clear case of relocation that is currently taking place due to the lack of ambition in industrial plans. That is the reality, that of the macro figures for some and the ones I have just read to you for the whole and the majority. That is the society before which you are obliged to appear. A society, by the way, which has in political pluralism one of its most remarkable realities, but you were told yesterday five minutes to say: I will never accept the question of Spanish unity. It's just that it's not what you accept or not, Mr. Rajoy, it's what society decides. Look, some of the bastions in which you and others support your policy of territorial unity, the Navarra question of state which is so soft, is here today in this House represented by two abertzal Members of the five corresponding, and in the face of the stream of progressive apathy that I quoted in November 2011, with a majority of the five Members on the left. It is not what you or what none of us here accept, it is what citizens democratically decide. I return to my constituency, that foral and Spanish Navarra, which in these four years of government you have pompously quoted in these terms, but which in these four years of your government you have denied bread and salt. It has resorted to the Constitutional as a remedy and as an irrecurrence; it has threatened with impossible and unjust debts that it has cleared in time of electoral discount; it has punished its competitive obligations budgetaryly but, above all, it has hit where it hurts the most, on the backs of 700 Navarra families, to which since September you have stopped paying the 426 euros that they are entitled as long-term unemployment benefit. Can you just give me one reason for this? It is not protected in what the law says; the law can and, in fact, must be amended to meet the reasonable and reasonable needs of these people. I'm finishing up, Madam President. [[His speech in Basque continues, the text of which he gives to the "Diary of Sessions" reads as follows: Hamaika urte, hamaika egin ditut Espainiako Gorteetan. Your tamalagarria of tamalez ikustea black beast hyzkuntza, euskara, devekaturik jarraitzen duela exe Honetan... Horrexegatik hain zuzen, ez Bakarrik batha horrexegatik hau ez da inoiz izana izta inoiz izane nire aitaren etxea...]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u30	Mrs. Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u31	And for those who confuse as an offence the natural act of using an official language and any other but fundamentally an official language in a parliament, the bet and conviction of this Member is that this Parliament will not be in full democracy as long as some remain unable to understand, even listening to what they do not understand. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u32	Thank you, Mrs Barkos, but I remind you that democracy is law enforcement, and the Rules of Procedure of the House are that. It's something else in the Senate. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as all those who have spoken before have done, I too wish to regret Mr Baldoví's indisposition. I wish you a speedy recovery that I hope is already taking place. I shall now reply to the representatives of the Joint Group who have just spoken only a few moments ago. I begin with Mr Cuadra, who has said the following in this House, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Cuadra has said in this House: You were very comfortable with - he said - the violent conflict, that is, when ETA was killing. That statement is repugnant. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you don't even have an apex of humanity. What can the families of the victims of terrorism think of someone who says that and at the same time expresses their willingness to end what he calls the conflict? What can you think? Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to maintain the same anti-terrorist policy, as I have said throughout this Parliament, that ETA should be dissolved and that, please, people like you should refrain from making such statements. And that's the point. There's nothing more to say about this. One of the really great things about democracy is that it allows in a democratic parliament that represents national sovereignty, a person like Mr. Cuadra can come here to teach human rights, fundamental rights, to accuse the government of denying rights and to talk about the UN. That is one of the magnitudes of the democratic systems that the vast majority of us here have defended throughout our lives. Yes, democratic systems at all force others to do things about some of the claims that are made in the chambers. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bosch is in favour of making a committee of inquiry and he sets himself as an example, which is the best way to defend a position, because, of course, if I do something where I have the capacity to decide - for example, in Catalonia - as I do not have that capacity here, I have the capacity to tell those who can decide: do the same as I have done. Or not? That is what you said here today, that you have made a committee of inquiry into Mr Pujol in Catalonia. What you haven't said is that this you did after saying on several occasions that you didn't; you did it once you had broken your agreements with Convergência i Unió, that is, the commission of inquiry didn't care about anything, what they cared about was to bother Convergência i Unió after you reached agreements. In the same way that on four occasions they refused to have Mr Mas appear in the Parliament of Catalonia, but when they had already broken up with Mr Mas, they suddenly believed that it was very necessary for us all to know the truth and therefore vote in favour of Mr Mas's appearance. Ladies and gentlemen, on freedoms, rights and the right to decide my position is well known. I am in favour of the right to decide on all Spaniards, as in any country in the world. In all the countries of the world people decide what their country wants to be; there is no country in the world with a written constitution that recognizes the right of self-determination and I am in favour of national unity, but above all I am in favour of all the Spaniards deciding what their country wants to be. Why are you going to deprive so many millions of Spaniards of their opinions and decisions about what their country is? That is what cannot be done, it is profoundly undemocratic and profoundly contrary to our legislation, our Constitution and the procedures that exist for your reform, which there are, and you can take the initiative. We have told you on numerous occasions but, for reasons I do not understand, you have refused to put forward a reform of the Constitution in order to defend what you want to defend. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now reply to the representative of the Gallego Nationalist Block. I have not come to boast of my successes; I have tried to make an approach to how I see things after three years of parliamentary office in our country, which is an approach that, if you have followed my interventions - which I suppose you have done because you have intervened in these debates whenever I have done it - has evolved over time. When I arrived here, in the first investiture debate - I was not even then president of the government - I explained how things were; I explained that we had really dramatic unemployment data, I explained that we had been in recession for several years, I explained that economic imbalances were very important, I explained that those imbalances - what many call macroeconomics that does not matter, but that is decisive - had to be eliminated in order to be able to create employment and generate well-being and wealth. I warned that 2012 would be a bad year for our country, that it would continue to increase unemployment and that in 2013, especially in the last part, we would stop that trend of constant destruction of jobs, and explained that the years 2014 and 2015 would be better for our country's economy. I did not say that today, I said that three years ago, those were the forecasts that the Government had then and, in essence, we have been right. The year 2012 was very bad, because it was very difficult that in twenty-four hours there would be effects, before we had to make decisions; I said 2013 was going to be bad, but less; and that in 2014 we were going to start growing, and we did. And what I said today is that 2015 is going to be the best of the legislature and 2016 can be better than 2015 if we are able to maintain the same economic policies that we have put in place over the years. I know that we have had to make difficult decisions, but, again, I repeat what I have said on so many occasions, if a country loses 70 billion revenue, which is what we lost in two years, which are 11 billion of the old pesetas, how will it maintain the same level of spending? Explain to me how you can do that. If you are cut in half, can you explain to me how you do to maintain the same level of spending as when you had twice as much salary? That's not possible. That's what we made decisions for, to get back income. That's what we've done in this legislature. We have prioritized spending - we had to reduce spending, it was that there was no alternative - and we decided to preserve pensions that affect nine million Spaniards, who are the ones who are in the most difficult situation because they are no longer working or going to work or intend to do so. We're going to prioritize unemployment insurance. Let's try to maintain the basic services. After losing €70 billion that had been lost, I think this country has made a great effort. I am not talking about the Government, because other public institutions and, above all, citizens have done so. I think I can demand a little more weight and justice from you when you come to this rostrum to judge what has happened in Spain in recent years, because today we can look at the future with much more optimism than we did in 2012. [[Applauds]] It's very hard to argue in a rostrum when one thing you hear is that it's all wrong. Health in Spain, a disaster; education, another disaster; dependence, another disaster; university, another disaster. Hey, what country do we live in then? Where is there a public health like that in our country? [[Rumors]] Universal and free public health. Where's a public education? More than 100 universities in our country; 30 billion dedicated to unemployment insurance. There will be something positive in Spain, I say; there will be something positive, it seems to me. A country to which 65 million people come a year, why do they come?, for how bad do you live here?, for how bad are you?, why are there no public services?, why are there no trains?, why are there no roads?, why are there no health services? Is that why you're here? Man, a little weighting in the trial! He talked about Galicia. Galicia's unemployment rate is very high, like that of the rest of Spain, as I know it is very high - it has been and is the great objective of this legislature - but there have also been positive things; it is that we have been destroying jobs more than seven years in a row. That's dramatic, that's the worst thing that's happened to us in Spain, but man!, you'll have to recognize that the fact that in 2014 employment was created for the first time in seven years is a positive thing, and it has been over 400,000 people. The fact that the government says that more than 500,000 jobs are going to be created this year 2015 is a positive thing, and you should be happy about it, and the fact that the government has asked the House that we can get back to having twenty million people working as we did in your day if we persevere in economic policy is a positive thing. That is the challenge and the great goal of the future. Nothing is built by criticizing everything and not by providing a single idea to solve what is criticized. Your Honor, you're talking about investments in Galicia. I believe that an important effort has been made even in situations of extreme difficulty. We have completed a very important work for Galicia as is the A-8, these works have been priority for the Government and the investment in Galicia that has been made in this legislature has been 167 million euros, mainly in the sections that you know: Lorenzana-Mondoñedo, Mondoñedo-Lindín and Lindín-Careira. On Highway 54 we will start Santiago-Lugo this year 2015; 42.3 new kilometers of highway. I think this is a good thing for Galicia. On 27 February, that is to say, we will place the first stone for the expansion of the AP-9 motorway capacity in the Santiago area, something that is undoubtedly very positive for Galicia. Also in 2015 we will resume the A-56 motorway between San Martiño and Barrela Norte; we have just tendered a section of the A-57 and it is planned to tender the next section of the circuit of Pontevedra. The budget of the Promotion Group for Galicia in 2015 is EUR 1,563 million, which I think is very reasonable. AVE to Galicia: The budget allocation for this parliamentary term has been over €3 billion and has been a very important push. The goal is to complete the works in 2018. And on the horizon of 2015 there will already have been very important time savings in the connections Madrid-Vigo, Madrid-Pontevedra and Madrid-La Coruña. On the Atlantic axis, the works will end in 2015, this year. Santiago-Vigo: 45 minutes; Coruña and Vigo: one minute and ten minutes. Savings of thirty-six and forty-seven minutes. Some things are also done, although you don't seem to want to know. You have spoken about Navantia, a very important issue that I can assure you has occupied me and continues to occupy me as President of the Government. But some things have also been done, what happens is that those things either you don't care or you don't want to tell us. Reactivation of procurement in the sector has been achieved using a new tax lease system. Believe me, it wasn't a battle of the easy things to give. The Pemex Group acquired at the end of the year 2013 - we have influenced some - 51% of the shipyard Barreras and in February 2014 signed a contract for the construction of a floating ship valued at 298 million euros. Yes, some of us have done something; I don't know what you've done, but I'm afraid the results aren't very visible. Also, a new fleet in the factories of the Ferrol range and, also, the Council of Ministers has agreed to the hiring of two ships for maritime action, one of them in Cadiz and the other in Ferrol. Therefore, there are things that are progressing; there are decisions that are being made; there are things that are going better and it does not seem fair to me that you come here to paint a panorama like the one you have painted because, among other things, that reduces credibility to yourself, which I personally am not very concerned about, but I think that you should be concerned about. I shall now reply to Mrs Oramas' speech. We'll find the oranges, but some of us have already found them. I am fully aware of what the Canary Islands is - I have told you this in the investiture debate and I think I have reiterated it, I am practically convinced, on other occasions where you and I have been able to intervene in this House and confront positions - there is a first differential fact, the island differential fact. If you want, there is also a very important differential fact that is the distance with the rest of Spain, not with the center, but with the rest of Spain and with everything that is on the Peninsula. I believe that, in difficult circumstances, we have made an effort from the government to pay attention to the Canary Islands. We have done so, along with other autonomous communities, in the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, which, as you know, has been very useful in providing basic public services in many autonomous communities. Canary Islands has received 2.4 billion euros throughout this legislature and 315 million in payment to suppliers. I am referring to the community, because the municipalities have received 501 million euros. This year 2015 the Canary Islands will receive, from the financial facility, 958 million euros to an interest of 0%. Some things have improved in the Canary Islands in recent times and that is very positive. In addition to tourism, which has had a magnificent season, industrial production has increased - I think it is a very positive fact -, exports of goods have increased and retail sales have also increased, in the three cases above the national average. The great problem of the Canary Islands remains, as in most of Spain, but of course in the Canary Islands in a clearer and more decisive way, unemployment. Unemployment is - I have reiterated it on many occasions throughout this debate - the great objective of this season and for a few years in our country. We have put in place an economic policy that you know - I will not repeat it again in order not to bore you all - and I believe that some positive data have been produced. I think that in the future, if we do things right - I repeat it again - we can create jobs again in Spain, as has happened in 2014 and as is going to happen in 2015. The Promotion Group has dedicated to the Canary Islands in this legislature 3,283 million euros. In 2015 we will dedicate - this is already future - 54 million euros on roads on which, as you know, we do not have competition. In airports the investment this year will be 90 million euros. We will dedicate 240 million euros in subsidies to the transport of residents - this is logical, precisely because of the differential fact of which we spoke before -, 12% more than in 2014. We have therefore tried to meet one of the main objectives of the Government, but of anyone with common sense, which is to ensure the mobility of citizens living in the Canary Islands. The bonuses are maintained, 50% for non-penisular residents; the bonuses for maritime transport, also 50%, and for interinsular transport, which, although it is a competence of the autonomous community, the autonomous community places 25% and the Government of Spain 25%. We have reinforced the public service obligations, which you know, La Gomera-Tenerife Norte, La Gomera-Gran Canaria, El Hierro-Gran Canaria and Tenerife Sur-Gran Canaria, in areas where there are major difficulties, and we have also subsidized the transport of goods. The additional aid from the Posei is very important, but in the most important thing that the Canary Islands had for its future, the renewal of the economic and fiscal system, as you have acknowledged here, has been made an effort by everyone and I believe that a reasonable result has been achieved. Therefore, at a time of difficulty, because you know that there has been, the Government has - as is its obligation, on the other hand - taken care of the interests of the citizens of the Canary Islands. You referred to AENA. I want to tell you the following about AENA. AENA is still a public company, its workers are public employees, the state continues to have control of the company, what the government has done is to value the company, which was - as you know, was not its responsibility, of course - on the verge of bankruptcy, and to ensure the connectivity of all the territories of Spain, especially those with the most difficulties due to geographical issues, such as the Canary Islands, and to maintain the networked airport system is a guarantee of mobility for all canaries, because it ensures, for example, the public service at airports such as El Hierro. And I want to remind you - it is not in the mood to put your finger in the eye - that in 2010, when the PSOE introduced a law to authorize the entry of private capital into AENA, they voted in favour. Are we worse off than the PSOE or have you changed your mind over these recent times? In any case, what matters most to me is that of oranges and we are going to try to find many throughout what remains of the legislature, which is still a lot and allows you to do many things for the future. Mr Álvarez Sostres, I have indeed devoted the bulk of my speech yesterday to the economy and unemployment, it is really what matters most to the Spaniards, as you recalled in your own speech, it is also what this whole House understands to be the great national objective and it will also continue to be so in the future. We have passed a stage of difficulties, the Government has made significant efforts, they have been made by all the autonomous communities, and above all by the vast majority of the Spaniards. It's true what you say, that there are a lot of people who still don't see the effects of economic recovery, but they're starting to see it, believe me. Yesterday I gave some data that show that we are not just talking about macroeconomic figures, we are not just talking about deficits, we are not talking about debt alone, we are not talking about the external sector alone, we are not talking about the external debt or the restructuring of the financial sector, we are talking about the significant increases that have occurred in the sales of the retail trade - that must be acknowledged because that is so - we are talking about that we are already beginning to recover the sale of housing, we are beginning to grow after many years the employment in construction, the sales of cars are going well, it is true that they have the help of the PIVE plan, but they are exporting a lot and above all they are selling a lot in our country, which is also something that we care about and must worry about. I have to say that important investments have been made in Asturias in a situation like this. In the year 2015 the Group Fomento will invest 539 million euros, throughout the legislature 2,169 million euros. The 2015 road budget will be 57 million euros. The Cantabrian Highway has been completed, I was pleased to be at the opening at the end of last year, I think I remember it was December 30. The whole cantabrian cornice is connected by motorway, that is very important, it is for Asturias, it is for Cantabria, it is for the Basque Country, for Galicia and it is for all the Spaniards who usually travel there. We will resume the suspended works of the A-63, the sections Doriga-Cornellana and Cornellana-Salas, and we will tender the contracts of construction of the road accesses to the port of El Musel in 2015. We have invested in high speed Madrid-Asturias throughout the journey, not only in Asturias, 170 million euros. In 2015 we will invest in railways in Asturias 169 million euros and most will be destined for the variant of Pajares. We have included in the budgets for this variant EUR 144 million in Asturias and EUR 317 million elsewhere. The AVE in Asturias is not in doubt. We are overcoming the serious problems that you know and that we have encountered in order to implement the infrastructure in a more rigorous and secure way and we work so that the Asturians can arrive from Madrid to Oviedo in about three hours long compared to four hours and forty minutes today, and in the case of Gijón far below - three hours and thirty minutes - of the current five hours. [[The Lord]] I now turn to Mr Salvador's speech. Without a doubt, all those who have assumed governmental responsibilities in recent years have had the most difficult, the most complex situation. It has indeed happened to UPN in Navarre and also to the People's Party in Spain. I am not going to go into the analysis of other people's behaviour because I think it no longer makes sense at this stage of the debate and neither can they replicate me. I want to thank UPN because it has supported the most difficult times and the most difficult decisions. Supporting easy times and supporting easy decisions is certainly not a complicated thing. I defend the status quo in Navarre. You have said one thing that is true, Navarra is a Spanish territory with a level of prosperity, progress, public services and income much higher than many others and I think it is very important for shipowners to be able to present it also in the future. I believe - here it has been said that I have alluded to the Spanish Foral Navarra, I will do it again - that where Navarra is best is where it is at this time, with its status of foral territory and as one of the great Spanish regions. I have been told here that we have not made important decisions in Navarre during this term, and I do not think so. I believe that an agreement has been reached, precisely on 21 January, in the Economic Convention's Coordinating Committee, where a study has been approved to adapt the convention to the new state taxes already in force. This agreement will resolve conflicts that undermine legal certainty and have a negative impact on utility, and Navarra will have more tax resources because it will allow the agreement to be adapted to the new resources already in force in the State. A subject that was not easy and had enormous technical complexity, Volkswagen's VAT agreement, has been resolved. It has been resolved and done with the governments of the Navarro People's Union and the People's Party. As for the high conflictivity before the Constitutional Court, I have no interest in having conflictivity before the Constitutional Court, what happens is that the Government of Spain has an obligation, those of us in the Government have an obligation, which is to preserve legality, and when we understand that there are decisions that do not conform to the Constitution, our obligation is to bring it to the Constitutional Court, which decides. Fortunately that has always been the case, it is one of the good rules of the Spanish Constitution, just as when others think that the decisions of the Government do not conform to the law or the constitutional text they carry it, and do very well to do so, to the Constitutional Court itself. I would like to make a comment on an issue to which many of the honourable Members have referred in the previous speeches, which is inequality between Spaniards. Undoubtedly, one of the most pernicious effects of the economic crisis - the pernicious effects have been many - has been to increase the inequality between Spanish and also to increase the poverty rate. I want to tell you - as I pointed out in my previous speeches - that there has been a change in the Spanish economy, there has been a change in growth, of not growing to grow and of creating jobs, of destroying jobs to grow jobs in our country last year. The same is happening with inequality rates. I have here the indicators on inequality of Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Commission, and I would like, in order to put things in place, to inform the honourable Members of how these indices are evolving, which, I insist, mark inequality in our country. The 80/20 indicator, which compares the wealth of the richest 20% with that of the poorest 20%, is improving. It had its worst time in 2010 with a 7.2; in 2011 with a 7.1, almost the same, and in 2012 with a 7.2, but already in 2013 it went down to 6.3. This is a very positive fact, it only encourages us to continue working. There is also a positive development here, although we are far from achieving the objectives, but things are better. The same has happened with the Gini index, another of the indices used to measure inequality in the different countries of the European Union. These are Eurostat data, I repeat. The worst time was the year 2012. In 2010 it was 34.4; in 2011 it was 34.5; in 2012 it was 35, but already in 2013 it fell to 33.7. It is also a positive development, although we still have much to do in this area. Exactly the same applies to the poverty rate. The worst time was 2011 and 2012, with 22.2%, but already in 2013 it started to fall to 20.4%. How do you reaffirm this to me? I am reassured by the conviction I have expressed to all of you during this debate that the economic policy that has been implemented with all the difficulties, with all the problems that it has created, with all the efforts that it has forced us to ask the people, begins to have effects, not only on those macroeconomic figures as some say, but on employment, on collection and on issues such as these to which I have just referred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now we move on to the replica of the Joint Group. Each speaker knows how much time he has, so I ask you to adapt to him at the time we are here. Mr. Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, the seven parliamentarians of the Amaiur Group that we work in the various committees - Agriculture, Economics, the Toledo Pact, Social Security, Labour, etc. - we do a normal job in Congress and you, when it comes to us, only touch on one subject, because it is the one that interests you to cover everything else, to cover a voice of Amaiur and a voice of Euskal Herria that is much more extensive and that affects your policy in all fields. He only takes up the subject of terrorism and violence, as I have told him, to cover up all its broken and broken and to cover up all our messages. Point this out, it will appear in the "Diary of Sessions": We make our own all the pains, sufferings and victims that have occurred in the Basque conflict, all without exception, and we also assume the responsibilities that belong to us for what is related to us. You should do so much more. On the basis of this we should sit, chat, discuss and agree to create firm foundations so that none of this will happen again in the future. There are two different paths - I have already commented on them - one is the path of victory, which is the one you want to implant. It is absolutely absurd, after more than three years of inactivity by ETA, that you continue to say that you are going to pursue the same anti-terrorist policy. This makes no sense, not even from a police point of view, as well as saying that we are going to continue with the illegalizations, with the prosecutions, with the prison, with the tortures. In a trial at the National Court last year, credibility was given - you attend, Mr Rajoy - to the complaints of torture made by more than twenty young people. And I'm not saying it myself or the National Court, they're saying it to international agencies. You know, Mr Rajoy, because the Minister of Justice has told you that the European Court of Human Rights has said three times that dispersal is illegal; there have been six judgments stating that incommunicado practice favours torture and conceals torturers; four of the UN in the same sense and - as I said before - before yesterday five human rights commissioners UN rapporteurs said that the reforms you are introducing violate fundamental rights. This is what there is, don't cover it up with anti-terrorist excuses. The problem is that your party, your Government is a government that has deep anchors with a liberating franchise, that's what there is. I am not going to tell you - starting with me - that it cannot be good for us to improve our levels of ethics and morality, but lessons from you, your government and your party, not one! In terms of ethics and morals, you line up, shut up and repeat course because you are short of much. [[Rumors and Protests]] And when someone talks about corruption - that in this you are champions - then raise your hand. Because this is pure mathematics, look at all the public positions, community presidents, counselors, party members, cashiers and people around you, look at the number of people involved in corruption. Most of the people are from his party. I repeat, morally and ethically, to the tail, silent and without saying anything until everyone else talks. Please, I'd miss more! I'm done. [[Rumors]] In any case, I repeat, after having said everything that I have commented to you and without releasing any ex-abrupt, we came here three years ago with our hand stretched out to talk about peace, dialogue, okay. We were denied, the parliamentary group was stolen. All our performance in this Congress is silenced, distorted. The media that you control, public, and much of the private, do not bring us together so that the message of the 333,000 people who elected us in Euskal Herria and the message of many more people who are in favour of this process of peace and democratic normalization is hidden.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u36	You have to finish, Mr. Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u37	This is what you are doing and, despite that, we continue to say: This is our hand, it is still stretched out. Forget about the Franco victory. By Euskal Herria have passed goths, visigoths, ostrogoths, Arabs, I don't know how many kings, Franco forty years, have not passed there...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u38	Mr. Quadra, you can't make history now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u39	Don't go that way, bet on peace. [[Rumors]] They bet on democratic normalization. They're good.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u40	You have to finish. Thank you very much, Mr. Quadra. Mr. Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u41	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President of the Government, we are informed that Mr Baldoví is feeling better and we are all happy. Baldo, hello and strength. We have just learned, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitutional Court has declared the 9 November consultation and the Consultation Act unconstitutional. [[Applauds]] All right, you applaud that, applaud that you declare illegal, unconstitutional the acts of 2.3 million people who came to vote and voted yes and voted no. You like that, clap it. Okay, well, we're good. Mr Rajoy, I love you very much too, but with these people it becomes difficult, ours is impossible. It's impossible, don't you see? People who are happy, who rejoice in forbidding people to vote what they want, yes or no to Catalonia's independence, are very sad. I also want you to have the opportunity to explain yourself, as Artur Mas, that you can appear and clear up doubts. That's what I'd like, and that's why I'm telling you what I'm saying. By the way, Arthur Mas appeared at his own request and we had asked him four times, to appear at his own request, it seemed to us the right thing to do. On the fifth - we helped him a little - he appeared at his own request. You, Mr. Rajoy, I don't know if you're very well informed about what's going on in Catalonia. Well, change your informant. By the way, one of its main informants, Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, does not appear, does not want to appear either at his own request or in any way, in the case Method 3 La Camarga. What's the matter, that in order to run in the People's Party, you have to submit a business card, that they don't show up, that it's forbidden? Do you forbid people to explain themselves, to give explanations of what they know in a parliamentary seat, in a committee? We ask you to allow a commission of inquiry into corruption throughout the State. That's what we're asking you to do, show up and don't waste any more time on things you don't know about. Mr Rajoy, please allow the committee to be set up and appear. You say everything improves, the economy, the job, the collection... Not democracy, we just saw it with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. And you say we'll all get better together. If we're better together, how come we're not better now, or we haven't had this story for centuries? He says we'll get closer together. Why from now on?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u42	You have to finish, Mr. Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u43	I'm done. I'll tell you something I think it does improve, honestly, I think it does improve and it's a source of satisfaction for me and most people, and it's that people move, move, want to change things. People want to change things and that is why I am convinced that we will reach a Catalan republic and, with a little luck and with fraternal desires, also a Spanish republic. And you, Mr. Rajoy, will be amazed at your fake El Dorado. Life is like this.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u44	Thank you, Mr. Bosch. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President Rajoy, I am sorry. I asked him three things: first, to promote the negotiation of the economic aspects of the REF, to sell international tax aspects of the REF; second, to clarify whether the Juncker Plan will be distributed according to the unemployment rates, as the European Union has done with regard to Spain; and third, issues of connectivity, such as ensuring the outstanding investments at the Canary airports after the privatization of AENA, a different airport policy and acting on ticket prices. He hasn't answered anything. How much less that the Canary Islands receives the same funds as the rest of the autonomous communities! I was missing more! Unless 50% of the Canary Islands-Península transfers continue to be financed, and so on, and we will have to pay the prices for the tickets that the Canary Islands pay! Of course I do! And you answered me and you gave me the reason for the answer you gave to the Galicians, 53 million on roads in the Canary Islands, where there had to be 290 and 1,500 in this exercise for Galicia. It turns out that the road of La Aldea is not the competence of the State, but the circumvalation of Santiago de Compostela, yes. But if you were the minister who created the road agreement and did it precisely, Mr Rajoy, because it was the only way to equalize the average national investment in the Canary Islands! He says that the agricultural Posei is important and has been charged with it, zero budget line. And don't tell me about the privatization of AENA. Of course we voted a decree where employment measures were going and the privatization of AENA was going, but CiU and Coalition Canaria stopped it. Read the Minutes of that plenary session where I express my opposition to the privatization of AENA. Sometimes one has a sense of state like this spokesperson for the Canary Coalition. At that time very important economic measures were adopted and we stopped the privatization of AENA after the adoption of that decree. I'm asking for your involvement. We've moved on from what you've done these three years, but at least in the next nine months, get involved. Get involved with the Juncker Plan to fight unemployment, with the economic REF and with the connectivity measures of the Canary Islands. Don't leave the canaries to our luck. As you have said: the cost of remoteness and insularity exists whether there is a crisis or not, with which measures have to exist whether there is a crisis or not, Mr Rajoy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, I have presented two points which were of particular relevance to me: isolation in mining infrastructure and funds. You have answered me with a real bunch of data, which I think is good, but there is still the question: Are we still in isolation, or not? We are talking about four years of government, three long years. As far as mining funds are concerned, nor to quote them, and we are talking about a court ruling, so tell me whether before the end of the legislature will pay them or not. With regard to infrastructure - I take the opportunity to talk about Europe - the growth policy which was adopted in the Council on 18 and 19 December facilitates Spain and Asturias this tendency to improve the infrastructure we have in Asturias and the rest of Spain. I am referring to the Juncker Plan and the 300 billion distributions in the coming years. Mr President, I suppose you know that Europe was planning to finance the international Palencia-Gijón corridor. His Government had removed it as a project. Of the 60 projects sent to Brussels, the Palencia-Gijón project has disappeared. It is true that projects that affect El Musel and Avilés and also the communications of the AVE have been introduced into the variant, but specifically this corridor itself has not. I think I remember the deadline ends tomorrow. You said in your speech that this plan was dynamic and mobile, so I ask you to introduce that corridor, which is also approved by six autonomous communities in northwestern Spain, which connects with the fundamental ports of El Musel and Gijón across northern Spain. I ask you to carry out this management, this request so absolutely necessary for the isolation of Asturias. I will make this clear in tomorrow's motion for a resolution, and I would like the Group of the European People's Party and of course the rest of the groups to facilitate this intention by voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Rehearsal of ideas in two minutes. Some want to benefit from confrontation and radicalisation, it's obvious. We know that because some radicals in Navarre have tried to do it for decades. But sometimes it is better to look back a little in history and not forget that the winds of populism and fanaticism have only illuminated periods of poverty, lack of freedom and violence. That is why I ask you, Mr President, not to fall into this very tempting, interested provocation of denying respect for others, as others do. That's a trap, because it's obvious that from the economic crisis we're going to get out, I think nobody doubts it, but from the social fracture - let's face it - we may not get out. I end up talking about Navarra. Navarra is not a myth, it is not a utopian idea, an indefinite geographical space, a closed and exclusive ethnic community. Navarra is a real, historical, living political community, with a unique political vocation of its own, with millennial institutions and symbols, a dynamic and solidarity community that my party wants to preserve and also improve. It is a community that will once again face the assault on the power of those who want to rehearse the umpteenth attempt to build, from hatred and lies, an exclusive and moody nation experiment, as we have also seen today. It is our challenge, it is true, but it is also a challenge for the country. Therefore, in the face of those who always search in history by imposing door-to-door their mandatory nation model, my party, the Union of the Navarro People, will continue to bet on an open, cheerful, moderate and supportive Navarra. I only hope, Mr President, that we will find among all, among the majority, among many, a new illusion, an area of open collaboration that will allow us to look to the future with more confidence and much less complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mrs. Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u50	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, it is what the data have, that when they are solid they are not opinionable, so the working population, youth unemployment, wage gap, public debt or relocation are not opinionable. The case of Navarra yes; I as the representative and deputy of Navarra, you as the representative of the Spanish Government. I insist, he tells us what he has done, but not what he has not done: a fortnight of resources to the Constitution which in very important cases you and I know could have been resolved through the agreement and legislative reform; a reduction in budgetary investments that is the balance sheet of his Government, in addition to 70%, although now in the last year you have wanted to correct; a conflict around the energy production tax that clearly flattens the development of the Navarro Convention; non-compliance with commitments in fundamental infrastructures, such as the Pyrenees Highway, which penalizes the toll in shadow that we are paying the Navarros because the decision not to do its part is making the initial agreement more expensive; lack of transparency, commitment and clarity in works such as the regrowth of Yesa, in which you respond to the lack of security with silence and with the non-appearance in the Navarros Parliament of your delegate, as has been asked by the Foreign Chamber; police reports never officially recognized, but much less denied, on public lines of education in this inskera; you are now in needy-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours-hours. Mr Rajoy, in this one that is certain my last debate on the state of the nation in this House, beyond your statements of blow to the chest, is this your idea, what I have just told you, of defending Navarra? Well, stop it, because we're better off alone than we are so badly accompanied. President, I do not want to finish - I am sure I am doing so on behalf of my whole group - without moving courage and warmth to our colleague and friend Mr Baldoví. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Oramas has said that we are now going to forget what has happened over the last three years and we are going to discuss the future. Mr Álvarez Sostres said in his speech that when I spoke about infrastructure in Asturias I related a number of works and I also explained to the House what the budget cost was. Mrs Barkos said in her last speech that I tell you what I did, but I don't tell you what I didn't. This is the same debate that is always repeated throughout history, at least since I have been here in this House. You come up here and tell us how bad we have done, what we have discriminated against your autonomous community, the mistreatment we give you and, in the end, you can end up generating the feeling that here we are all discriminating against ourselves. We should exercise political wisdom so that we do not have debates like the ones that are taking place here. Mr Sostres, the investment in infrastructure in Asturias has been very important, but you do not refer to it. At least don't mind if I do, because it's good for Asturian citizens to know that there are people who think that an effort has been made in Asturias. In fact, there are Members of the People's Party, by the constituency of Asturias, who understand that. You come to tell us something else, not what has not been done, but at least you should recognize the things that have been done. That has not been done, I'm sure there are many things, in Asturias and in each and every one of the communities in Spain. The same is true in the Canary Islands. I explain here the decisions that have been made on important issues affecting the Canary Islands and what I am told is: let us forget what has happened in the last three years. No, important things have happened over the past three years, important decisions have been taken and some positive effects have been made in the Canary Islands. From there, I'm willing to talk about the future, of course, I'm willing to talk about the Juncker Plan and I'm willing to talk about what's left of the REF. However, you will agree with me that this is an important decision, and you will agree with me that all the decisions that have been made on improving connectivity are positive. Could they be better? Undoubtedly, like all human works, but they are positive. Do not tell me that I forget what has happened in the last three years because very positive things have been done in the Canary Islands in the last three years, and I am not prepared to forget them. Which doesn't mean I don't agree with you that you can work to improve things in the future. I am not going to comment on the judgments of the courts, but I do want to recall one thing: in any democracy and on the basis of anything else it is very important for the rulers to comply with the law; it is very important because the law is the expression of the will of the people and because we are democratic and legal states and we are all subject to the law: this Parliament and the rulers. If the rulers are saying that we are not going to comply with the law on matters of its importance and the Constitutional Court has to act, in the end we will send a bad message to society as a whole. There are procedures to reform the Spanish Constitution, put them in place if you want and if you dare, but all this makes no sense. You know very well my position, you do not need to repeat it again: we are a nation, the oldest and oldest in Europe, and it has worked well for us all together. See, in the last forty years Spain has been one of the four countries in the world where per capita income has grown the most. We have a Constitution, a framework of freedoms, of rights, of democracy, we have equality among the Spaniards, we are in a process of integration as is the European process, which is where the world is going now, we have all kinds of emotional ties that unite us, and then there are a lot of people who don't think like you. You have to understand that there are many people in Catalonia who feel Catalan and Spanish, and that I am, among other things, to ensure that the rights of those who feel Catalan and Spanish are also respected. I like everyone's respect, and above all, what I like best - perhaps it's professional deformation, but from a democratic point of view it's irreproachable - is that the laws and decisions of the courts, which we sometimes like and sometimes not, are respected. However, when the decisions of the courts are taken unanimously and there are twelve people there, something happens, Mr Bosch. [[Applauds]] On the works of the Juncker Plan, it will be closed definitively in June. No current drafts have been approved. Until the rules of play are approved in June no project will be approved. We are talking about projects in which it is absolutely essential that private investment is involved. Of that €315 billion of public investment there is very little. There are about 5 billion that the EIB puts in the form of credit guarantees and there are 16 billion euros from the current Community budget. Therefore, the works we are talking about must be works that have a return so that private investment can be involved. That's the Juncker Plan. We are now working on interconnections with France because they have return and because there can be private investment. There are large corridors circulating in Spain that can also be part of the Juncker Plan, the Mediterranean Corridor and others, but there needs to be strong private investment. Then that's still open. I am willing to listen and attend to everyone who wants to say something about this matter, but this is not as easy as it seems, nor is it a public money distribution, which is not. I insist, in June, that the criteria for the operation of the Juncker Plan will be definitively closed, if the European Parliament so approves. I agree with Mr Salvador's intervention. Navarra is playing a lot in the coming months. I agree absolutely with the current wording, with the current status of Navarra. I have pointed out before, Navarra is one of the most prosperous autonomous communities in our country. To enter into operations that have nothing to do with common sense, wisdom and logic is not, much less, what is best for Navarra at the moment; rather, it is exactly what is less convenient for him. I conclude my speech by talking about public debt, an issue which I did not respond to during this debate, but which has sometimes been raised. The public debt in Spain is very high right now, it is much higher than we would like, but we need to know exactly how the public debt originated in our country and, above all, what is going to happen in the future, which is what we should care about. In 2011 we had a deficit of 9%. This deficit does not fall from 9 to zero in half an hour, but is gradually falling. In 2012, it was already 6.8; in 2013, it was lower; in 2014, it continues to fall and in 2015, too. But as long as we are not at zero we still have to go to the markets and if the markets lend us, which they have done, the public debt increases. That justifies part of the increase in public debt. However, in Spain there was something that did not exist, which were the famous invoices in the drawers, the famous payments to suppliers - I say nothing -. There was a debt that did not exist, but there were creditors who did exist who were suppliers of public administrations. This forced us to pay those suppliers, and it was not the debt of the Administration, it was to help the autonomous communities to go to the markets and to demand public debt, which is now public, but which was previously a commercial debt in the amount of 28 billion euros with many Spanish citizens who had contracted with the administrations. Then other things have happened that also affect the Spanish public debt. We talked about Greece. Well, all these decisions that have been made with Greece and other bailouts also affect the Spanish public debt, and that is a step forward. What is going to happen in the future with public debt, which I think is the most important thing? What we must not do is amendments, as some honourable Member has done in this legislature, calling for the public deficit to be increased by EUR 16.8 billion because she felt that some things needed to be done. You cannot make an amendment to increase spending by EUR 16.8 billion and, at the same time, complain that public debt is very high. That doesn't make any sense. The important thing is that in the years 2015 and 2016 the public debt will maintain a level similar to that it has at the moment and in 2017 it will start to lower the public debt for two reasons: because the public deficit will be lower and because as a result of the improvement of the economic activity will increase the revenues, and that will also help us to reduce the deficit and, therefore, the public debt. I insist, in the years 2015 and 2016 we will be at a level similar to the current and from 2017 will continue, if we continue to do the current economic policy, because I do not know what could happen if the economic policy is changed neither with public debt nor with employment nor with economic growth in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hernando has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr President of the Government, yesterday and today we have attended the last debate on the state of the nation of this legislature. During this time, we have had the opportunity to hear the President of the Government explain to the House and the Spaniards the reality of the change that has taken place during these three years in Spain, and that today it can present to the Spaniards as a project of success that undoubtedly lacks challenges and things to do. We have also had the opportunity to attend the first appearances that two other leaders of other political formations made in this debate. One that I present here as the great abrogator and another that also presented here as the great exterminator. - Mr. Sanchez is the first of them. I do not know if they will be here again representing these roles in the next legislature; some have it difficult because when you run the most important party of the opposition, the Socialist Party, and renounce to present their acronyms in Balearic Islands, you do not have a suitable militant to present in Madrid and you address the Andalusians every time you have to address them via satellite - the last time since Leon - it is not that you have problems with GPS, but you have lost the compass. [[Applauds]] That compass, which, by the way, also prevents you from being here today listening to the rest of the opposition groups and who believes that exercising opposition in Parliament is about throwing a rally and going home to solve your problems. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today Spain and the Spanish are better than three years ago. Spain is beginning to go well, even though the drama of 4.5 million compatriots who continue to seek an opportunity and who remain the priority and the unveiling of the Government's policies persists. Many of them know that today things are better and that a hope is opening up that very few years ago seemed absolutely unthinkable. This is the great change that has taken place in Spain; a change that is not the result of chance or of being carried away, it is the result of decisions, tenacity, the ferocious will of a government and a parliamentary group that, giving stability and support, have relied on the capacity of Spain and the Spanish to move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago 11 million Spaniards decided to grant this Parliament and this country a solid and stable majority to take Spain forward, and that is what this government and this parliamentary group has done over this time. Ladies and gentlemen, we were facing a triple crisis: an economic crisis, a serious territorial crisis and also a moral and social crisis. Between 2007 and 2011, the action of the Socialist Government worsened the international crisis to the point that it rocked the welfare society. The destruction of 3.5 million jobs, the disappearance of more than 200,000 companies, the massive fall in public revenue, the uncontrolled deficit and the outflow of debt, which had risen from 35 billion euros to more than 800,000 euros, drew a desolating picture; moreover, in the drawers there was a hidden commercial debt of another 80 billion euros, 16 billion euros, nothing more and nothing less, than in health. Moreover, our financial system, with serious insolvency problems, closed the window and further collapsed the situation. The previous government had not only run away from its responsibilities and acknowledged its failure by calling early elections - which seems to be fashionable among some, because they have also called early elections once again in Catalonia and also others in Andalusia - but, ladies and gentlemen, the problem was that the lies that had spilled here and in the European institutions, had sown mistrust towards us, Spain had passed in a few months - or in a few years, sorry - of being the European miracle to become the sick man of Europe and a threat to the euro. The inheritance received was not precisely an inventory, but was the worst of the legacies: it brought us to intervention in the midst of a new recession that destroyed thousands of jobs and opportunities every day and generated frustration, social inequality, lack of prospects and distrust in the institutions. In previous years, the Government had refused its obligations and, relaxing controls, had left millions of Spaniards to their fate. Our rigid labour relations system destroys jobs and businesses massively. The Government had allowed millions of loans to people and societies without sufficient solvency, which with the first glimpses of the crisis became toxic and insolvent credits that destroyed the foundations of the system. For their part, the public boxes, sometimes managed with unprofessional criteria, were forced to merge without previous sanitation, which ended up contaminating the whole sector while the National Securities Market Commission, the Banco de España, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, evaded their responsibilities and looked elsewhere. In turn, the Government authorized the theoretically healthiest financial sector in the world - I repeat: the healthiest in the world - to seek solutions with financial products such as preferences, derivatives or other types of abusive clauses. That was the way the Socialist Party had to help banks and the financial sector, to run counter to what other countries were doing in the rest of the world and to allow some to abuse depositors and people without sufficient training. Indeed, this problem, which, thanks to the reforms that the Government has made, has saved and rescued many citizens in this country, who have recovered their savings. [[Prolonged applause]] When we arrived at the government, we found a very socialist tax system, very socialist: a tax system in which, through a peculiar system of deductions and depreciations, there were 17 IBEX companies paying zero taxes, and the average of what the thirty-three IBEX companies, the most powerful in this country, paid was 3%. In addition, the electricity system, which is essential for the growth and competitiveness of a country like ours, had turned the price of light into the highest in Europe, 70%; it had also covered a hidden deficit of another EUR 26,000 million - the one-year bill - which had been squandered through the euphemistic tariff deficit, which was that others would already come and pay it later. The system created in the offices of the ministries benefited the producers of the new technologies with decommunal premiums and contracts at twenty-five years, compensating the producers of conventional energies with a price-fixing system in which the same thing always happened, they won the same, which they were; and they always lost the same, the consumers, the small and medium-sized enterprises and the industries of the country. While some were putting themselves "dwellers" at the cost of "the green", we were dedicated to investing billions of euros in promoting R & D+i, but that of the Chinese. [[Applauds]] - This is what the previous government was doing. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the loss of jobs led to the growth of inequalities and poverty and social frustration - I have already mentioned this before - questioned the viability of the welfare state that we had built among all of us over time. Once again we came to the Government, the People's Party came to the Government with a Spain on the verge of bankruptcy, which questioned the viability of the pension system. But from the very beginning we were aware of the difficult task we faced and we had to take adjustment measures, tough but essential measures to avoid what would have been even worse: to turn away from our responsibilities as a nation and ask for the rescue - we already knew what had happened in some other countries - that rescue which, by the way, almost all of you from the opposition were asking in this House, surely thinking that that would lead the country to a situation of social conflict and instability and could also, as in other countries, lead to a new electoral process in which some had a new opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 we eluded the external rescue and eluded it because the government acted resolutely, decisively, courageously and, let me tell you, patriotically. He trusted the Spanish citizens, their abilities and their talent to bring Spain forward. We were not begging or crying or complaining to the European institutions, let alone insulting with childish bravado whom we knew we could and had to help. Nor did we want others to pay our bills or those of our electoral commitments. We went with the reforms and the duties done, and those who had lost faith in Spain soon understood that they could trust us again and, thanks to them and the sacrifices of the Spaniards, things changed radically. I wanted to make a reference to the situation at the time, because I also want to remind and insist on the disloyalty with which some have been acting all this time, first, those who had caused evil, who refused to help us and to collaborate to remedy it, because those who had failed, ladies and gentlemen, were hoping that those who had succeeded us would also fail in the effort; secondly, I also want to highlight the attitude of others, that of the opportunists, that of the defactors, that of those who from independence nationalism in Catalonia tried to break Spain and, unable to assume the weight of the democratic responsibility that the citizens had given them to solve the problems, decided to blame the rest of the Spaniards for the cry of: Spain robs us. What an injustice! What an infamous aggravation! I do not think that is necessary, but today I would like to reiterate to the citizens of Catalonia that we are never going to allow anyone to mutate their rights of citizenship which, as Spaniards and Europeans, correspond to them; that this Parliament is theirs, as demonstrated by the presence here of even those who want something else, and that they will count on us to defend their freedoms. Mr Bosch, we will not be in the UN, we will be in the AVE, in that AVE that communicates the four major cities of Catalonia, that communicates us with France and that has been paid with the effort of the Catalans but also with that of the rest of the Spanish. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want to tell those citizens today that the rest of the Spanish people think about them, we care about them and we care about them, because we are like them, and therefore we are very aware that with their contribution, their work, their effort and their commitment we have been able to make Spain a great country, one of the best, of the oldest in the world, as the President has said. We will never leave them alone in the face of difficulties, because we are not in favour of incommunicado or permanent reproach or of the walls or borders with which some intend to isolate them. We are a great nation, we believe in Spain and we are firmly convinced that together we are better off. Ladies and gentlemen, during that time there was also another type of opportunists, in this case even more serious for the democratic system, that of those who, daily and from television, stimulated frustration and social resentment to destroy our essences and democratic rules by questioning our institutions at the root, pretending to deny and break what has allowed the longest stage of prosperity and economic growth in Spain that represents our Constitution and that brilliant process of coexistence that was our Transition, of which we are very proud in my party. Some never accepted reconciliation, they were frustrated because they did not succeed in revenge and rupture in the 1970s and they longed to settle accounts with the past. Today, those we know or have known, right?, as wage earners millionaires of chavismo or Iran and who ask for explanations to all, but don't give them to anyone, are not in a position to teach any and less of corruption or tax fraud. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, corruption is not something new. What is new is the political determination of the Government to fight relentlessly against it. This is new in this country. Mrs. Diez, yesterday you dared to insult my party seriously. You usually use this rostrum to say that PP is a corrupt party. Your Honor, how indecency, how infamy, and more coming from you! The People's Party is a great center-right party in which liberals, conservatives, Christian democrats have come together, in which there is no one left - there are the corrupt -, I insist, there is no one left, we still need more people. We are honest, honest and hardworking people, who believe politics is the noblest way to serve others, who have had to bury many comrades and some comrades for defending these acronyms, and I will not allow you or others from other sides, such as Mr. Cuadra, or others who have collected or collected these people's memories to ever be dirty. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Quadra, the problem or your problem is not Franco. It is known that he does not know, because in the delirium that lives he does not know: Franco died forty years ago. Those who unfortunately follow in that are you, which seems to be that with Franco you lived better or justified your crimes better, Mr. Quadra. [[Applauds]] This is what happened. We are a big party, 800,000 militants, the second largest in Europe, and it is true that we have had some rotten apple, we have had that misfortune, but we have asked the citizens for forgiveness for that which has filled us with shame and infamy. Others, gentlemen of the PSOE, we're still waiting for you. Cicero said that the more honest a person is, the less he can believe that those who are at his side are not. Maybe this is what happened to us. But, ladies and gentlemen, during this time there was also, I insist, another kind of opportunists, opportunists from whom we want to pass and to whom we are going to overcome, precisely overcoming the crises and betting on employment and growth. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few more things on this issue of corruption. Thanks to this Government and the reforms that this Government has made the illegal financing of a political party is now a crime. Thanks to this Government, our public system is more transparent and companies or institutions that receive funds or contracts have to do so publicly. Thanks to this government, the bank cancellations, lords of the Socialist Party, ended, which was what happened when you arrived at the government, which miraculously were forgiven some debts. Thanks to this Government the corrupt will have to return the stolen property and will be disabled after confiscating their property, and for that it is a good measure and good news that this office is created to seize property. Ladies and gentlemen, criminal proceedings will no longer be endless, because slow justice is not justice, and for this reason the presentation of the Criminal Prosecution Act has been announced. We have changed the legal framework from top to bottom so that the State Security Forces, judges and prosecutors can more effectively prosecute those who are corrupt. Moreover, and I would like to stress this, this Government is the Government that has most respected the independence of justice, its decisions, regardless of the colour of the affected person. We, Mr. Sánchez, and I'm glad you're here, have no double measuring rods and we don't accept lessons from those who use morale on the letter or in neighborhoods. When a person is charged, charged, not a little charged or highly charged. [[Applauds]] When a woman is pregnant, she is not very pregnant or little pregnant, she is pregnant. Ladies and gentlemen, I already know that when strange theories of political responsibility are laid down and press conferences must be given again to explain and correct them in this House, one runs the risk of getting one's fingers caught. This is what is unfortunately happening to you by making esoteric theories about political and criminal responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made major reforms, 198 bills and royal decrees have been dealt with in this House and that is a structural reform as had never been achieved in this country. That is what has made it possible to change things so that 433,000 jobs are created, that the unemployment has been reduced by 477,000 people, so that we have moved to a situation in which social security membership fortunately only increases. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is now growing more than the rest of the euro's big countries and that is the result of the reforms and efforts of the Spanish people and who do not recognise this offends their own citizens. We have changed our tax system and today the big companies, those who say that we help and benefit and that they are so happy with us, pay three times as much taxes as they paid with the socialists, with the solidarity left. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting our deficit target and we have cleared the public accounts. We have paid the debts that others have left and that affects municipalities and autonomous communities, which have also ordered their finances. The financial sector has regained its credit and we have overcome that left-wing culture of unpaid self. No, ladies and gentlemen, debts are paid and commitments are paid and when you have and manage public money you have to think that when you spend more than you have, others will have to come back to pay it. That is the greatest intergenerational insolidity that can ever happen if it is not taken into account and falls into the situations in which you have fallen in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, our productive model has also changed dramatically and has done so thanks to exports, as large companies but also small and medium-sized companies have managed to get out. We have reformed the electricity sector and during 2013 and 2014 the rate of light fell - that did not happen with the socialists - and this benefits inflation and makes Spanish households also improve their available resources. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now a more competitive country and industrial relocation has occurred over this time. There are many companies that used to go outside that now come to Spain to invest and produce industrially, and there is the automotive sector and many others to prove it. The confidence index - as has already been said - has grown, and in social matters there are 700,000 new health cards, more scholarships than ever, a 45% drop in the waiting list and we have consolidated the welfare state, which the left has put in jeopardy here. We have made a system of growth with social balance, which was what we were looking for, and now we are willing to lower taxes. Things would be better if others had helped us, because defending Andalusia is not a flag for riding, Mr Pezzi. These are facts and when I speak to the left I speak to the exterminator and also to the repealer. What has happened or what model have they to offer to Spanish society? The Andalusian one, ladies and gentlemen? If it is the record of unemployment, the record of taxes, the record of cuts and the record of corruption of the history of this country! [[Applauds]] That is your model, also now, with a government that, despite you, is helping you and paying your bills. This is what is really happening in Spain. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, before coming here to raise some of the issues, you would have to look at what is happening in the south. Take back the compass, Mr Sánchez, and explain why in Murcia there must be 9 points less unemployment than in Andalusia, why in Castilla-La Mancha there are 6 points less than in Andalusia, why in Extremadura there are 4.5 points less unemployment than in Andalusia, and you have no beach, Mr Sánchez, you have no beach. It may have something to do with the policies that apply. Being European and being Spanish implies rights, but it also implies obligations, and I would like some, when going to the rallies and talking about rights or supposed rights that have been eliminated or exterminated, to explain to people something as simple as that rights come from responsibilities and obligations and that, if there are no obligations and responsibilities, it is difficult to have rights because rights are not free, they are not free, gentlemen of the left. Today in Spain we have a country and a reliable government. Spain is a great country when it has a good government that sets the course and knows where it's going. Yesterday we met a new package of measures to continue to impact on the reforms we have undertaken, to help families, women, entrepreneurs, people in difficulty or who have been unaware of the failure of their projects and to give them a second chance, a new opportunity to stand up. That is why we favour and promote indefinite recruitment, by the way, a recruitment that is higher today than when we arrive at the government: 75% compared to 73%. We also seek with these reforms to improve relations between citizens and the Administration. They are reforms and measures to consolidate change and build confidence, in a country where 16,700,000 people work and in which there will be more people working this year and the next, if they don't change things. And they're not slaves, gentlemen of the United Left. They are people with their dignity and decency. Spain is today the fourth country in the world with the highest economic growth. Today we grow more than Germany, France and Italy. One in two young people who found employment in 2014 did so in Spain. Half of the European Union's employment created in 2014 was created here. We are the second country with the most high-speed lines in the world. We have leading and technological companies, large multinational companies and smaller and medium-sized ones, but they come out and export our goods and what we produce. When we go to international meetings we are asked to explain what has changed in Spain and how these reforms have been made and that is what happened in the G-20. Ladies and gentlemen, we would have to be glad that that was the case. Today we are no longer excluded from those meetings, and when we talk about fighting terror we are also asked to give our opinion and even to report to the rest of the European partners. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are part of the UN Security Council. The president has already said that 65 million people, foreign tourists, came to spend their holidays with us. They seem to be having a good time because they want to do it again. I'm sure they don't go to the bars Mr. Sanchez visits. They must prefer the bars to which the Vice-President of the Government is going, where there must be much more fun. I'm glad you did. In Almeria - in Mojácar - where Mr Sánchez is going, the atmosphere I see is quite different from what he intended to describe here yesterday. [[Rumors]] That black Spain that you describe, where pessimism and constant sadness is the dominant and personal and family dramas cling to society, this is not the reality of Spain. Spain is a safer country and the anti-jihadist agreement makes us stronger to fight terrorism and new threats, supporting the State Security Forces. Crime is falling in Spain. Spain is a solidarity country where hundreds of thousands of citizens through non-governmental organizations and volunteering - those non-governmental organizations to which you did not pay their bills - help others every day. For the first time we have a food aid fund with Red Cross and the Food Bank that allows to feed 300,000 families in Spain. We, ladies and gentlemen, have guaranteed the welfare state, which, with the support of families, has allowed the worst of the crisis to pass through with social cohesion, and the elderly have played an essential role. That is why we have taken care not to lose purchasing power, but to improve it, and this is a reality. Spain is a country where citizens with their work, talent, effort and creativity, every day want, make and dream of a better Spain. We have a lot to do, 4,500,000 compatriots are our unveiling and they will continue to be. Let me tell you that we are proud to be Spanish. It's a way to be better. I encourage those who do not believe it to try, especially Mr Bosch or Mr Quadra or some other people who have come to the rostrum today. Let's not jeopardize what's been done. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen. It's not just up to you. I know it depends on the Spanish citizens and I am addressing them. Let us not put this at risk, because the crisis has unfortunately taught us that when we do not value what we have, when we do not apply the correct policies what we have, we can go to the garage and that is what we have tried to avoid with this policy that we have applied from the government. We understand this and we will be on the right path, which is employment, growth and well-being, and we will make it possible to make the statement yesterday of the President of the Government and it must be a commitment of all, that in this country of ours, between 2014 and the following years, we will again create 3 million jobs, as we did in the past, and I assure you that if we have the confidence of the citizens, we will get it again. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u55	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I would like to begin by thanking the People's Parliamentary Group and its spokesman, Rafael Hernando, for their intervention today and for the support they have been giving the Government over these three long years of parliamentary term. I am fully aware that it has not been easy, it has not been one of the best stages from the point of view of politics and the ease of the decisions to be taken, but it is also a pride to be able to say: I have worked for my country in times of greatest difficulty and I have supported a Government that is trying to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am left with some of the statements just made in your speech by the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group. The first - which I leave behind - we have not received a good inheritance. The second, has been difficult or, in other words, has not been easy. I'll leave her behind, too. The third, Spain begins to go well, it is true, not as well as we would like, but begins to go well. I will not repeat just one of the facts, reasons and arguments that I have pointed out throughout this debate that will soon end. The fourth - which seems to me the most important - opens up a hope that seemed unthinkable years ago. That's what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago in this House I said that the major objectives for this legislature were to stop the bleeding of unemployment, to start growing and to create jobs. Three years later we can say the following. The bleeding of unemployment has stopped. Now it's time to continue. Start growing, it's started. Now it's time to continue. Creating employment has already been created for the first time in Spain in 2014 and now it is time to persevere, and this is the goal for the coming months and years. I said that yesterday in this House, today we just heard from the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group. If we do things right, if we act wisely, if we continue with fiscal consolidation policy and structural reforms, as soon as it helps us what is outside, this country will be able to create 500,000 jobs per year just like last year 2014 created 430,000 jobs and thus reach the horizon of the 20 million people who were already working in our country and who will give us a lot of peace of the future. It can be done and we're going to work to get it done. Ladies and gentlemen, I too trust, as Mr Hernando said in his speech, in the capacity of Spain, in the Spanish and in their generosity. We have seen very good examples throughout these difficult years of crisis. First it was the export sector and many small and medium-sized enterprises that, as they could not sell here, have gone away and have succeeded and, as I said yesterday, an export culture has already been generated in our country that is fundamental for economic growth and therefore for the creation of well-being and wealth. We have exported - I say this to those who believe that Spain is only tourism and construction, that we have heard it many times over the last few years -, first of all, many equipment goods, secondly, many chemicals, thirdly, many cars and, fourthly, many products from the agri-food industry. Those who have exported to our country have provided a great service to themselves, but have also provided a great service to economic growth, and I thank them. As I thank all the autonomous SMEs, all the Spanish workers, all the civil servants, so many people who have lived and many of whom still live in a difficult situation. That is what must encourage us in the future, what we are the Spaniards and what we have been able to do in the biggest economic crisis our country has experienced in many years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am realistic in what I am going to say. I think it can go well and, more importantly, I think it should go well and I think it's going to go well. We are going to grow next year at least 2.4, as I said yesterday in this House. Let's keep working. It would be desirable for some events that do not depend directly on us to be well. I am talking about the economic situation in Europe, I am talking about the agreement or not agreement with Greece, I am talking about the price of oil, the exchange rate, the decisions the ECB can make. All this can help us or can help us less, but the most important thing is that we take care of what is our responsibility. That is why I say that we must continue to persevere and, above all, we must realise where we are. As Mr Hernando said in his speech, this is a very important country, this is an advanced democracy, this is a country with history, this is a democracy with a Constitution as few as it is, it is a democracy that recognizes fundamental rights, that guarantees the equality of citizens, that affirms national sovereignty, a democracy that has entered Europe, a democracy that is now on the United Nations Security Council, and it is not the first time that it is, a great country, the country of Europe that the most students of Erasmus receive, the most, for something will be; indeed, the one that the most tourists receive, 65 million, for something will be; the ninth in science; the one that has the best high-speed routes in Europe, a country with a network of motorways and motorways like no one and a country with a welfare system like no one. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, when we discussed the subject of Ebola in Spain, we saw how one person here entered a Spanish public hospital and was cured, and on the same day, in another great country, much higher than ours in GDP, entered a hospital with a heel of $500,000 another person. [[Applauds]] Hey, this country isn't a joke. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we can improve, of course we can improve the health system, the education system, the pension system, everything is likely to improve, but let us learn to value what we have. We are now going to solve a problem that has been discussed a lot over the last few days, but to which no one has mentioned in the debate on the state of the nation, the issue of hepatitis C. We have studied this issue seriously, we have appointed a committee chaired by an expert, Mr Rodés, we have negotiated with the supplier and seller of medicines. Well, let's treat - and it is the first country in Europe that gives a comprehensive solution to this issue - all hepatitis C patients. Let's do it because now we can do it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's face it. We have passed a stage of enormous difficulty. Let's get our heads up. I believe that if we do things with wisdom and common sense, Spain will continue to have far more future than past, which is not short. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-25-CD150225.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. The meeting was suspended. It was one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
