ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u1	The meeting was resumed. Discussion of the entire bill amending Act 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the Military Career. The Minister of Defence has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce this bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come before you to present to you a bill aimed at reforming the transitional regime of Law 39/2007 of 19 November of the Military Race, thus fulfilling the mandate set out in the final twelfth provision of the Organic Law 9/2011 of 27 July, on the rights and duties of members of the Armed Forces. That provision, as you know, made it clear that, for the above purpose, the Committee for the Defence of the Congress of Deputies should issue an opinion on a preliminary basis addressing the different elements of the transitional period of Law 39/2007. Following successive appearances by representatives of the Ministry of Defence and professional associations, the Commission, in an extraordinary session held on 9 July 2014 and with the broadest support, which I would like to highlight here again and thank, by 38 votes in favour and 1 against, adopted the opinion required by the Law on Rights and Duties. In your report, ladies and gentlemen, there were a number of recommendations and suggestions for the Government, within three months, to refer to the Congress of Deputies a bill to reform the Military Career Act, which is nothing other than this one before you today. The text I bring to you has been previously informed by professional associations represented on the Armed Forces Staff Council, with the Staff Council itself and by the Council of State. The High Consultative Institution has highlighted its correct processing and its careful economic memory and has called for only slight modifications for greater clarity of the law, which, of course, have been incorporated into this draft. By entering the content and as it could not otherwise be, the draft complies in detail with the instructions incorporated in the Commission's opinion. Thus, the main measures incorporated in the law are, first of all - completing a process in which we had been working since the beginning of the legislature and in which, I know, we have fully coincided with its lords - facilitating the honorary link with the Armed Forces of those personnel who have moved to the retirement situation or who have resolved their commitment to permanent incapacity produced in service and in special circumstances. This link, involving officers, non-commissioned officers and troops, includes the assignment of the person concerned to a unit and the possibility of obtaining successive jobs on an honorary basis. It also provides for the granting of the Lieutenant's Honorary Employment to non-commissioned officers of the Mutilated Persons Corps who, in meeting the conditions for promotion, were unable to benefit from it because they were retired, as well as an Honorary Employment to staff who were unable to ascend directly to retirement as a result of an act of service without first passing through the reserve situation. With these three precepts, which have no combined economic cost, one begins to pay even a small part of the debt of gratitude that we all have with those who have seen difficulty the regular exercise of their vocation as a result of their courage and loyalty in the defense of Spain. Next, I should like to list the other major changes that suffered from dysfunctions that were appreciated since the very day of the entry into force of the Military Race Act, creating discomfort in certain Armed Forces collectives, as your lordships know. First, the transitional period is extended to move voluntarily to the fifty-eight-year reserve situation, from 2017 to 2019, giving the opportunity for more officials and non-commissioned officers to benefit from this; it will also indirectly allow more staff to be promoted to the reserve. Secondly, the conditions for the promotion of non-commissioned officers to the position of lieutenant are changed so that this happens when they move to the reserve situation without additional requirements, mainly of age. At the same time, and until 2019, staff who do not take up the voluntary reserve at the age of fifty-eight shall be compensated for their seniority, service time and economic effects of the promotion from the date on which they turned fifty-eight years old. Once I have outlined the main lines of the content of this bill, allow me to devote the last few minutes of my presentation to the only amendment to the whole presented. I will begin by thanking the rest of the groups for their willingness, at least tacitly, to work on this project, which I am presenting today on behalf of the Government. I hope that the reform of the transitional regime of the Military Career Act will soon be a reality, thus closing the chapter on the problems arising from the implementation of the 2007 Act and giving the final introduction of a model of military career with a vocation of stability and permanence, as the institution itself has them. Before considering the content of the only amendment in its entirety, I would like to go on to assess its own presentation. To register an amendment to the whole effectively is the power of the group that presents it, but I do not think it is right to ask the Government to return, that nothing else is an amendment to the whole without an alternative text of a bill that comes, firstly, from a mandate contained in a law that the House adopted with 341 votes in favour and none against and that its own party, the party that tabled the amendment to the whole, supported, and secondly, from a previous opinion in which the Defence Commission worked for many days and which was opposed only by the group that today tabled the amendment to the whole. The introduction of this amendment suffers from a proper understanding of the scope, scope, meaning and mandate of both Law 9/2011 and the transitional regime of Law 39/2007, if not the concept of the military career itself. I will not go much further, nor do I need to rebut a text that has two pages, but I do make it very quickly clear that the references introduced by the amendment on assessments and IPEC do not fit into the transitional regime of the law, so that they are outside the mandate which - I insist - the amending group voted in favour. However, most of the concerns and arists that this subject could present have been worked through regulatory regulations: royal decrees, ministerial orders and instructions from the Chiefs of Staff, the system being fully consolidated. Moreover, references to promotion and integration of scales have been expressly and very appropriately excluded from the Commission's opinion given the time and consolidation of rights. The same applies to references to entry, promotion and education, which are not also part of the transitional regime, are issues that are fully implemented and developed on a regulatory basis; touching them would involve new model changes, which no one wants, neither in the Armed Forces nor in the Government submitting this bill. On the other hand, the regulation of the professional career of the troops, as well as that of officers and non-commissioned officers, does not require legislative amendment. Finally, the honorary link and promotions of disabled personnel in service are reflected in this project, as we have seen before. It seems clear that these personnel cannot have the same treatment as that which is detached from the Armed Forces because of an inadequacy of conditions outside the armed forces. On the other hand, staff with disabilities are not disabled, thus following the same vicissitudes, assessments, destinations and promotions as the rest of the active service staff. The problem, therefore, is not only to ask the Government to return a bill whose submission is a legal mandate. I'm closing now, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law amending the Military Career Act answers and resolves those issues and problems that the implementation of Law 39/2007 presented and that still, seven years and three months after its entry into force, are likely to be solved without generating new and worse deaths. I am not going to deceive you because you know it, because you have drafted the opinion: this is a project of the possibleist, realistic in its content and scope. Its main objective, even on the very meritorious grounds, in the case of the better integration of injured persons in service, for example, is nothing other than to give stability and close the wounds caused by a law that has created many problems of implementation, no doubt, but which we also consider as a valid model of military career for the 21st century Armed Forces. This model has a vocation to endure and to bring certainties and assurances to a matter as delicate and fundamental as the professional perspectives and hopes of those who are by vocation called to give the best of themselves, even life, for the defense of Spain and the Spaniards. Of course, every bill is perfectable and this is no exception, so I am holding hands with the contributions that the groups consider appropriate, ensuring that they will be welcomed and studied with patience, with rigour and perspective and, of course, with the greatest will for consensus. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot and do not wish to conclude my speech without thanking you on behalf of me and the Armed Forces for the effort made to issue the opinion that has brought me here today. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u3	Thank you very much, Minister of Defence. As the Minister has pointed out, an amendment to this bill has been tabled to the full refund. It has been introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, and Mrs Lozano has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for this presentation of your bill. It seems to us that this legal reform represents a new breach and will mean a new frustration for the military, especially because it is all going through the deliberate will not to launch a military race worthy of that name. That is why we have tabled this amendment in its entirety - we have the right to present it - because in my group we do not remain silent and make the relevant objections to it when we consider it to be so. The reform of the Military Career Act is a history of government failure and frustration for the military, and I will go on to explain in detail why. This reform is the cause of the 12th final provision of the Act on the Rights and Duties of Members of the Armed Forces and should have been carried out within six months of the entry into force of that Act. The Government should submit a bill for the prior reform report of the subcommittee that was created for that purpose and in which my group, like the other groups in this House, participated. The fact is that this project is referred not to six months, but to a year and seven months of delay with respect to these deadlines, which is a demonstration of government apathy and a lack of willingness to correct the damage caused by the transitional regime of the Military Career Act, as well as contempt for professional associations of members of the Armed Forces as interlocutors. We know that this reform - we have that information - has caused deep discomfort or, rather, has deepened the already existing unrest among the military, because, as I said at the beginning, there is corroboration of the lack of a model of military career worthy of such a name, that is, that it provides certainty, that it provides stability to the military, that it rewards the merit and that it has a system of appropriate incentives to stimulate the best, to ensure that the best remain within the army and that they feel motivated and encouraged to continue doing that work that we all so much appreciate and value. Without a military career worthy of that name, the military has no future or prospects, but, on the other hand, it is consistent that the Government does not put forward that model because it lacks the model itself of the Armed Forces, as we have told it in this legislature on several occasions. Last January, six years have passed since the Military Career Act came into force, in which various milestones have generated different frustrated expectations over and over again, and this repeated and constant frustration is now compounded by this bill. Once again, therefore, those expectations generated by the military are disregarded and this House is despised, because although you have referred to the subcommission's report as if it had been carried out by that subcommission, carrying out a parliamentary work that can really be called that, the fact is that the report was drawn up by the ministry and the groups were given to us just three hours in advance. It was a question of constituting such a sub-mission to do parliamentary work to remedy the errors and prejudices that existed, but as demonstrated by the various participants who had gone through the sub-commission, the ministry had in fact formed a parallel team that was preparing that report and, with the absolute majority of the People's Group in the House and therefore in the sub-commission, what they did was simply to approve that report. You reproach us for voting in favour of that report, proof of our willingness to trust until the last moment when the Government, despite the fact that that report was partial and did not meet all our demands, could be the starting point, but for the Government it was the point of arrival; that is why we cannot share this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform does not address most of the professional demands of the military, many of whom have defended UPyD in other parliamentary initiatives. This is an added deception, because every time we presented a parliamentary initiative we were referred to the subcommittee's opinion, and then we found that when that subcommittee was set up, as I explained, none of the contributions that my group wanted and could make had been taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the uniqueness of military work is that a man, a military woman, can be given the order to fight and can lose his life. That is why and because of the limitations in their rights characteristic of military work and in many legitimate cases, our obligation in the laws is to take care of and protect them especially, to take care of their professional development, to take care of their military career and to protect their labour and professional rights, precisely because of the limitations they themselves have to defend them. None of this is done, none of this is even sensitive to the Government. There's a growing discomfort in the Armed Forces. The entire society lives in a crisis situation, but this unrest is particularly increasing in the Armed Forces, it is reaching levels that had not occurred so far. You, who work on these issues like myself, must be aware of this, but sometimes it gives the impression that you are not, because if you do not frankly believe that you would take much more interest and address reforms like this with rigour and sensitivity and not as a mere procedure to comply with legal provisions. The changes introduced by this legal reform are a showcase, for the gallery, without any real effect and without real commitment to the Government of profound and effective changes that solve the problems of the military and respect their rights as a collective which, as I said, has particularly limited rights to defend their own job improvements and, among others, and fundamentally, their right to a career. Maintaining the system of assessments for promotion without any control, with annual changes in merit regulation, is inconsumable. Maintaining IPECs under the same current conditions is a demeanor, and we have been transferred by all military associations, because IPECs are a permanent and constant source of grievances and demotion for the military. It will strengthen arbitrariness and labour discrimination in the service of the interests of the command and not to improve the military progress and greater operationality of the Armed Forces. Discrimination against troop and navy scales, i.e. resistance to regulate their military career as that of any other public employee, is maintained. There is still no reference to entry, promotion, education and training in the Armed Forces. Disfunctions created by subjective assessment mechanisms for promotion or damage caused in relation to the integration of scales, promotions or consolidation of complement scales are not addressed. Issues such as the honorary link and promotion of staff with disabilities and staff with disabilities are left unresolved. Finally, we have learned, Minister, of the Government's intention to deal with a new regulation of hours and hours. This seems very worrying to us - the professionals have passed it on to us and we want to put it on record here - because they intend to adopt reforms on an urgent basis which will entail a further loss of rights for the military. There is a constant return to indeterminate legal concepts, such as that of permanent availability for service or that of service needs, in a truly surprising interpretation that does not allow combining duties and rights in the case of the military. And one last issue also related to career, although not strictly present in this legal reform. We have also been informed that we want to proceed with the review of time reductions already granted through a ministerial order, which again creates legal uncertainty, uncertainty and instability, which is just the opposite of what our military personnel need in their professional careers. Therefore, both in this bill and in other legal reforms that the Government is planning, we see a new will not to solve the real problems of the military career, not to create a model of military career that is worthy of our military, to provide them with stability and certainty, to protect their rights and to protect them. That is why we have called for this text to be returned to the Government. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. Mr Agirretxea has the floor, first of all, for the Vasco Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak very briefly and from the bench to say that this bill is, as the minister has said, a draft derived from a mandate. This is a very complex issue and because of its complexity we had to create that subcommittee which tried to study the demands of those affected and, on the other hand, the issues that we considered could facilitate the drafting of this bill. We have, of course, received complaints from professionals and concerns from those directly affected by this bill, and it is certainly not easy. The law has some gaps and partially covers these needs and the arguments of the amendment to the whole presented do not fully address this issue. My group is therefore not going to oppose it, although it will certainly be better in the subsequent process. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your brief explanation. I understand that it cannot give another because it is subject to the reform that puts on the table today on a vital law, which is very important for the exercise of the work of the men and women working in the Armed Forces and for our Armed Forces. I rise to this rostrum to announce the vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the spokesman for the Union Progreso y Democracia, as it essentially coincides with the position that my group has been defending over time within the framework of the subcommittee for the reform of the transitional regime of the Military Career Act. If it was already regrettable that the final opinion of that subcommission took little or no account of the multiple contributions of the political groups, representatives, associations and professional representatives that we participated in it, it is no less so that this proposal brought here today by the ministry repeats and reproduces that fact. It is again seen, Minister, with extreme contempt once again how the major states and the ministry itself get their hands on the work of the Legislature. In other words, that paper had to have served to guide, not the other way around; its job was not to guide the Legislature, but to execute. Again, the legislative role, as I say to you, is again being curtailed, as has been customary throughout this legislature, by your Government and specifically by this ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform is late - you have already been told from this rostrum - a year and seven months late, wrong and of course absolutely insufficient, because it does not address what we believe should be addressed: the needs of our Armed Forces, but also of the workers of our Armed Forces. This reform is far from solving the problems and concerns that the Armed Forces workers have, ladies and gentlemen, and this is because at no time, Minister, has its wording been addressed, considering as a fundamental axis of it the professional right to the military career of members of the Armed Forces. You do not look from that perspective at the drafting of any of the laws that affect the work, the workers, the work of the people who are part of our Armed Forces. On the contrary, it is drawn exclusively from the point of view of defence needs, which we are still unable to address because we are still being denied this debate: what defence needs this country has. We move forward in a logic that you also align with a clear lack of objectivity and objectivity, as has happened and, much we fear, will continue to pass with other laws, if any, cooked by this ministry. The result is more than the same, a loss of opportunity to provide the legal framework that affects the personnel of the Armed Forces and the exercise of their functions of the modernity, justice and rights of a professional army of the twenty-first century. For this proposal we did not need so much delay, Minister, nor did we need to generate so many false expectations. On the grounds that there is no time and that in certain matters it is late to proceed with six amendments to the existing law; a legislative mandate affecting, inter alia, the promotion and change of scales, the promotion regime, seniority, the transition to reserve status, the academic recognition of acquired training or the withdrawal of disabled personnel. Above all, in our view, what they propose to us is absolutely biased and we are already telling them that we are going to table amendments that affect a great deal more than the issues that were addressed by the provision that today justifies bringing this rule. We believe that your proposal has more form than substance, if we also take into account that 50% of what you are raising only concerns honorary matters. What about the arbitrariness that implies - as has already been said from this rostrum - maintaining the system of assessments as it is for promotion? What happens and why does it not end with the discretion that characterizes personal qualification reports? These are issues that make clear and show that you have no intention of balancing rights with obligations, no intention, because this is what we want to talk about, rights and obligations, the two things at the same time. But there are many more issues that should be addressed and are not addressed with your proposal, Minister. When is a comprehensive plan to incorporate professional workers in the working life of troops and sailors? When are we going to change the pay system to look at overtime? When are we going to settle economically and with solvency the Observatory of Military Life, which you then use in all your arguments but have it constrained economically, which makes it very difficult to carry out your work? For when, ladies and gentlemen, will a deep debate be held to analyse what means that 50% of our Armed Forces are made up of temporary workers? How are we to ensure that limited personnel can continue to develop their military career? Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, our particular votes are going to amend this law profoundly because in the Plural Left, when we talk about military career, we also want to talk about the right of workers to a professional career, and that does not address its legislative reform and the current law either. There are many more questions - some of them have already been said from this rostrum - that the representatives of the workers of the Armed Forces have put on the table, such as the new regulation of days and hours. The matter of the revision of the day-time cuts shows that the military career, as the Council of State's opinion acknowledges, addresses far more than you are trying to put us on the table today, Minister. It is absolutely imperative to address that deep debate about which model of defence our country wants and what model of military career we need to put it into practice and not the other way around, as you are doing. In short, we believe that we need to address all these issues and many more that we are going to raise in order to achieve a military career law that is truly worthy of being called this and is useful not only for the interests of Spain, but also for the workers who make them possible in the field of defence. I would not like to end, Minister, without telling you that a minister who ignores this Parliament, a minister who has a conflict of interest and a minister who looks at situations such as those we are living here and complaints such as that of Commander Zaida Cantera is not a minister who must continue to hold that portfolio. You should resign, Minister. I would also like to thank the spokesman for UPyD for his words and for bringing here the Zaida issue, which in any case does not fail to show a reality which, however much you want, you will not be silent about. It will continue to grow, it will continue to advance and it will continue to come to light, because it is absolutely necessary that, in order for our workers of the Armed Forces to carry out their work in conditions, we know what goes on from inside the barracks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u10	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the amendment of an existing law, the Military Career Act, and, roughly - it is nuanced - two collectives; one who has been injured in the act of service by being unable to serve or who has taken the time of retirement when he was in the act of service. Honestly, few of us can deserve more respect than a person who has been injured, who has stepped on a mine and who will pay for the rest of his life to defend us all. In this sense, this collective has all our understanding. In fact, someone has defined a soldier as one who is able to interpose his body between the people he defends and those who want to harm them. All our sympathy for this group. The second group, that of the non-commissioned officers, also deserves our full consideration. They were in some kind of legal funnel and something was done to fix it. We deserve the utmost respect and we therefore vote in favour of the Commission's opinion. It is true that it affects few people, the non-commissioned officers must be about 400, I do not know the exact number of situations of honorary passage, but we understand that they are human and dignified enough that even if only one person was affected it would be worth making the law. Having said that, we must add that we like what is in this law, but we have many problems with what is missing. Many things are missing; some have already been said here. A glaring example for us are the Complementary Officers, which everyone knows as the former Provisional Ensigns. We will be tabling amendments in this respect because we do not understand it. They are people who, by definition, have a university career and would occupy jobs in places where, although not normal in the Armed Forces, there is a shortage of personnel, in places where a brigade often has to play the role of a senior officer. They are people who are withdrawn - if I am not mistaken, because with the figures I am very bad - at the age of 49 with a withdrawal of 1,000 euros. We understand that losing these trained professionals, with years of experience and a career, and above paying 1,000 euros, no longer from a purely operational point of view but from an economic point of view, would be on the Armed Forces' account to this collective. Minister, no one escapes that withdrawing people at age 49 today is a problem and generates significant job insecurity. There are other situations that we are studying and that should be incorporated into the law; some of them have been cited. We reserve the right to submit amendments. We cannot oppose a law that defends people - I will not refrain from using a classic quote - who, as Horacio Cocles said in the 3rd century B.C., defending a bridge before an Etruscan army - a situation that surely implied the death of all soldiers - at a time when there was no clear concept of homeland nor much less of democracy in the former Roman Republic, an expression that I consider very beautiful to define what this collective does: How beautiful to fight and die - in this case to be wounded - by the graves of our parents. We are talking about defending this collective and, in this regard, it is very difficult to oppose it. However, we reserve the right to defend many other groups who sincerely understand that they also have their right and that they would be of operational and economic benefit to the Armed Forces. Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr José Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u12	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal regime of the personnel of the Armed Forces and its management is not a simple task. In 18 years the Chambers were able to pass three general laws on the personnel regime of the Armed Forces: Act No. 17/1989, Act No. 17/1999 and Act No. 39/2007, on which we now refer. In this count it should still include a fourth, Law 8/2006, of Troop and Marinery. This would not be more important if it were not because in the case of the Armed Forces these laws, all of them, contain rules that articulate a genuine progressive career that has no parallel or approximation in any other body of public officials, because nowhere - as it happens here - does it turn on the concept of military employment, whose different degrees are reached one after the other and, within which, those who share it happen by the order they occupy on the scale corresponding to each body and scale on which the military necessarily frame themselves. This employment and this order on the scale depends in all - I insist, in all - on the development of his career and the exercise of it, as it determines the relative situation among the members of the Armed Forces in terms of command, subordination and responsibility. All this explains that they exist in legal and factual terms, as is the case, shorter and longer careers, faster in progression or more suspended; all of them, moreover, adapted to the professional tasks and the conditions required to exercise them from different bodies and scales. These basic notions are known in detail and better than anyone else by the members of the Armed Forces and those who have worked with them, although they are more difficult to understand and even more difficult to imagine by those who have not enjoyed that privilege. It will now be easier to understand that every time the structure of the military bodies and scales is altered, a reordering of the affected forces must be carried out, because when they converge into a new body and a new scale, individuals from different bodies and scales must be interspersed. This means agreeing accelerated promotions for some and delayed for others and, in any case, a new rescalation. The consequence of what I am saying is that all these laws incorporate a wide range of transitional provisions designed to mitigate as far as possible the negative effects of these rescalaphonations on the career expectations of those affected. With this, the consequence of the consequence is served: a very high number of resources that, as they are normally lost, leave at least a profound sinabor in terms of both professional development and in terms of remuneration or in terms of recognition and self-satisfaction. If it is combined that these same laws have also changed the regime and the conditions of passage in a unique administrative situation such as that of reserve, they can also add this element to the chapter of resources and sanctities. If I have extended myself in these considerations, it has been to emphasize that the draft law which is the subject of the amendment to the whole of which we are now debating brings its ultimate cause from a previous law, as has already been said by some of those who have intervened before me. Indeed, Organic Law 9/2011 on the Rights and Duties of Members of the Armed Forces assumed that the process of implementing the Military Career Law, and in particular its transitional provisions, required an assessment of its possible negative effects and possible remedies. To this end, he ordered the Defence Committee of this House to issue a previous opinion which - I quote - addresses the different elements of the transitional period of the law; in particular, those relating to promotion and change of scale, promotion regime, seniority, academic reservation and recognition of acquired training, as well as the withdrawal of disabled personnel. In a process which began on 11 March 2013 and which ended on 9 July 2014, the Defence Committee of this House approved the above-mentioned report; a report in which the Socialist Group worked and was involved, therefore it is responsible for it, because although we then pointed out that it could have been more incisive and generous in some respects, in the interests of consensus we voted in favour, although we too, Mrs Lozano, could have proposed that other issues not covered by the law that we were ordered to carry out should be addressed. We believe in legality and a pre-established procedure for making laws, and therefore we do not deny that the Defence Commission has respected the legal mandate and confined its work to the matters entrusted to it. Obviously, what my group is not responsible for is the bill. This is a Government project and, in our view, it has two very different characteristics; one satisfies us, and is that it comes to give definitively for good the Military Career Act, despite previous partial reluctances of the current party in the Government. We are not happy with the other; the draft has not complied with some of the recommendations that the Commission report had included by agreement of the various political groups that supported it and, in doing so, it is too scarring on scarring and, in our view, it is short. Curious paradox; the authors of the Military Career Act have defended reforms that are somewhat deeper than what the People's Group or the Government, with the bill, is willing to accept. I would like to announce that my group will be presenting in the course of partial amendments various alternatives to improve its text, which I hope we can agree with most of the groups, and especially the Group of the European People's Party, in order to better respond to some of the expectations that the Commission's work had opened up, in particular with regard to the promotion of non-commissioned officers, the temporary extension of the transitional regime with regard to promotions, the transition to the reserve situation, improvements for members of the Armed Forces who have suffered disabilities on duty or the revision of the supplementary military regime. This is what, in our view, we must do, what is sensible to do; first, as I said, to respect the legal mandate and not to jump it to the toaster and, second, not to do the fourth staff law in 26 years, with the devastating consequences to which I have already referred and which would at least cause identical discomfort and identical number of resources. This is an initiative, by the way, that in no case would my group be willing to share not only because we believe in the content and basic regulation of the Military Career Act, but because we change that law again, when the first ones who entered the Armed Forces, according to its provisions, have not even known its first promotion seems to us to be an absolute fear. As your group advocates otherwise, our group will vote against your amendment. We'll do it for something else, too. Its amendment is refundable and does not therefore offer alternative text. With this formula can be made your own, or, as you claim, the whole House can make any claim that arises, even if they cannot fit each other into a structure that responds and must respond to the principles of unity, hierarchy and discipline, here and in all the countries of the world. While doing so, it keeps indefinitely in the limbo of expectant expectations - forgive me the play of words - those who have seen and who I hope will see, at least partially, their demands met. Some may find this somewhat less. We don't think so. I therefore insist that we will vote against your amendment and partially amend, in concrete terms, the text of the draft submitted by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. For the People's Group, Mr Ferrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with inheritance in politics is that you cannot renounce it, not even accept it for the sake of inventory alone, and the Military Career Act is a poisoned inheritance for the People's Party government. This initiative of the previous Government generated 30,000 contentious-administrative resources. Obviously, I don't have to do much to explain to you that it didn't turn out to be a very popular law among your recipients, nor is it a law that we like, the People's Party. A law that has enormously conditioned the possibilities of its reform, a law that has conditioned the reform bill that today is subject to amendment to the whole, a reform that is true includes important progress, that is true gives satisfaction to just demands and that is true corrects some of the mistakes made by the 2007 text; progress that the Minister has clearly outlined in his intervention. But it is also true that these are not all the mistakes or all the demands we would have wished to see met. We do not want it to be the best of reform laws, but it is, without a doubt, the best of all possible. Considering all these problems, the question of the million must be asked: why did the Government of the People's Party, thinking as it thought, not proceed to repeal the Military Career Act and present a new one to the Chambers? I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that it was not easy to resist temptation, but there were compelling reasons not to. First, there was a legal provision for a parliamentary subcommission to consider possible law reform and lay down the conditions for such reform. It was therefore pointless not to wait for the above-mentioned subcommission to give its report before taking any action. Secondly, as I have told you, the emergence of the Military Career Act generated 30,000 contentious appeals, many of which are still pending. It would, therefore, be foolish to re-regulate when much of the issues raised were in line with the criteria established by the courts in resolving such remedies. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, most of the demands entailed an increase in public spending, and that in 2012 was simply impossible. Fourthly, when the People's Party Government assumed its responsibility the law had been in operation for several years, it had created a framework, a trap of acquired rights in the field of personnel of very difficult, if not impossible, solution. Many of the decisions that could be taken with the best of intentions generated a cascade of new grievances, which had given rise to another chain of resources and a diabolical spiral, ladies and gentlemen. Fifthly, your lordships probably know the old military aphorism that says: order and counterorder, equal to disorder. Well, if something requires a military career it is stability; stability that allows those who undertake it to know in advance what their expectations of professional development are and what the rules of the game will govern such expectations. A new law of the military career would have meant the umpteenth modification of those rules in a space of a few years, all crazy. And finally, but no less important, coinciding a new law of the military career with a change of government could convey to our military the impression that their professional expectations depended or were intimately linked to political avatars, which would inevitably lead to politicization of our Armed Forces, and I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be possible to render worse service to the armies and the country as a whole. Does the Government for all these reasons renounce the solution of the problems and grievances caused by the emergence of the Military Career Act 2007? No, not at all. The only thing that he renounces is to put the marker at zero, to draft another new law, one more of the military career, and thereby contribute to the ceremony of confusion that seems to preside over this issue. The present draft provides a solution to many of the problems raised. In the course of amendments we will certainly find formulas that will allow us to move forward on this path; other grievances can be resolved through management without the need for legislative reforms, and this ministry is committed to this. And finally, the consolidation of the economic recovery promoted by this Government will make it possible to gradually meet those demands that, being reasonable, the worst economic crisis that this country has experienced prevented them from being met. Nothing I have said to you so far is unknown to the rest of the political groups in this House, none of the problems, difficulties or risks. It does not hurt me to recognize that the vast majority have been led with responsibility and sense of state, hence the overwhelming support received by the opinion of the subcommittee in the handling of this draft, with the presentation of all those amendments to the joint text which they considered necessary. Only one political formation has tabled an amendment to the whole and that is, of course, UPyD, and I wonder why. I have read carefully the provision regulating this figure and it is possible to make an amendment to the whole for two reasons; because this is about the timing, the principles or the spirit of the draft law, and when I read the text of the amendment tabled by UPyD it is limited to enumerating a number of issues which, in his view, should be covered by the draft, that is to say, should be subject to an amendment to the article or because a complete alternative text to the draft is proposed, which clearly shines out of its absence and which, of course, we did not expect. In the rule governing the reasons for the amendment as a whole, I have found no reference to the minute of glory. The search for the minute of glory does not justify an amendment to the whole according to the will of the legislator, nor is the press holder the next day, in the same way that I do not find any reference to the interests of the party own electoral year. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] I could finish here, but Oscar Wilde said, "I resist everything but temptation." And I can't resist the temptation to make a reference to what happened yesterday. Mrs Lozano, yesterday you tried to undermine the honour of the Minister of Defence in relation to a crime of which Commander Cantero was the victim, which we all deeply regret and condemn. It would take a very twisted mind to think that it is not. [[Applauds]] It went beyond the fact that it is the same minister who has promoted the policy of zero tolerance for harassment within the Armed Forces, with a success in management as evidenced by the fact that the cases of harassment in our armies are 400% lower than in the rest of Spanish society. The same minister who included harassment as a very serious fault in the Armed Forces Disciplinary Regime Act; the same minister who has included harassment as a crime in the new draft Military Penal Code. None of this existed, Your Honor, before this minister. [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr Pezzi Cereto: He deserves a medal]] But don't worry because Pedro Morenes is used to his style, in my opinion, his bad style.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u15	Mr. Pezzi, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u16	Without going any further, yesterday afternoon you tweeted social media saying that the officer who harassed Commander Cantero was promoted to colonel by the Ministry of Defense, deliberately hiding that this promotion occurred in July 2011, being Minister Carme Chacón. A style, in my opinion, miserable, recognizable, but miserable. [[Rumors]] But this is not what worries the minister and the People's Party the most, the most disgusting thing is that you have orchestrated a campaign, including a television programme, in which you convey the image that the men of our Armed Forces are either rapists or are covert when what they are are men of honor in their vast majority. [[Several Members: Very well!]] And all for a minute of glory, for a press headline, for scratching some miserable vows. Mrs. Lozano, hold on if you can. [[Mrs Lozano Sunday asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u17	Thank you, Mr Ferrer. Mrs Lozano, as you have alluded to, you do not have to explain why you ask for the floor. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u18	Mr Ferrer, first of all, the commander who was harassed and then persecuted is not called Cantero but Cantera and the fact that you do not even know your last name gives you an idea of your interest in your case. Secondly, we are grateful to her because she with all her suffering has managed to make sense by making her case visible, she is the one who carries out this struggle and UPyD what she has done has been to accompany her, help her and protect her, as we do with all the military who come to ask us for help. Many have thanked us for defending the prestige and honour of the military, as we are doing in the person of Commander Cantera. Finally, I want to thank you because the more you insult us the more you legitimize us. [[Rumors]] The more they insult us, the more they encourage us to continue to fight against the harassers in the army and against the parasites in the government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. Mr. Ferrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u20	I will speak very briefly. Mrs. Lozano, I'm sure the commander will be able to apologize. I just want to say one thing, if that's the way you and UPyD understand that it's the most useful, the most reasonable and the most sensible to protect the honor of the members of the Armed Forces, please don't insist anymore. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Ferrer. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank some Members of this House for their willingness to negotiate and from now on to talk about the possible improvements that can be made in this draft that is being presented today, the Government, as it has been so far, is open to negotiating and perfecting them. I am particularly grateful for the tone of the representative of the Socialist Group in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u23	Thank you very much, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u24	We then have the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on declarations of Members' activities in a report which your ladies and gentlemen have. There has been no request for interventions. We shall therefore proceed at the end of the plenary session to vote on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u25	Further validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 1/2015 of 27 February of a second chance mechanism, reduction of financial burden and other social measures. For the presentation of the royal decree-law, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in this House today to request your support for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law as a second chance mechanism. This royal decree-law includes key measures to ensure that recovery is robust, lasting and its effects can be transferred to all citizens. It contains measures in various fields, including reducing contributions to boost employment, promoting free justice by eliminating fees for natural persons, extending deductions in the IRPF for new groups and in competition matters, extending social protection measures in the mortgage field, and establishing second-opportunity mechanisms covering individuals. This regime is part of the policies we have been adopting to facilitate the orderly deleveraging of the Spanish economy. A necessary process that must continue to ensure sustainable recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the excessive indebtedness of the private sector is one of the main causes of the crisis in Spain. From the end of 2003 to the year 2008, the debt of households and businesses was doubled in gross terms, increasing by EUR 1.2 trillion. In just five years it rose from 140% of GDP to 210% of GDP. This in turn reflected the sharp increase in external indebtedness. Thus, the need for financing of the Spanish economy exceeded EUR 100 billion in 2007, i.e. 10% of GDP. As you know, this excessive indebtedness was fuelled by the lax financial conditions that arose from our incorporation into the euro, but also by a number of shortcomings in the regulatory and institutional framework prevailing in our financial system. In particular, I am referring to the problems in the corporate governance of our boxes, to the poor risk management and lack of transparency in the marketing of mortgages and other complex financial products, and to a model based on an inefficient allocation of credit to the brick, which offered high short-term returns, but which were unsustainable in the medium and long term. All these factors are behind the real estate bubble, whose explosion and subsequent correction have proved tremendously hard, burdensome, for our economy in terms of growth, in terms of employment, in terms of tax revenues and in terms of the solvency of our banking sector. That is why this Government has acted from the outset on several fronts to tackle the problem at its root. Firstly, with the banking union, we have strengthened the supervision of our banks, which have been under the control of the European Central Bank since last November, as you know, ladies and gentlemen. We have also created a new resolution framework for entities in crisis; from 2016, 90% of our entities will be under the single resolution mechanism. On the other hand, in the event of a bank intervention, we have established a system for the sharing of losses among creditors, thus avoiding the injection of public money and encouraging prudence on the part of financial institutions. In addition, we are creating a national resolution fund with the contributions of the banks themselves that will gradually be integrated into the European resolution fund. In short, we have set up a new system that will prevent the costs of a future financial crisis from being borne by taxpayers. We have also strengthened corporate governance of entities to avoid past bad practices and bring it into line with the highest international standards. We have limited the salaries and compensations of the managers of the entities that have received public support, we have defined the variable remuneration of the advisers, we have demanded greater requirements of honorability and independence from the managers of the entities and we have narrowed the mandates of the advisers. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have acquired a new model of savings banks which has meant their professionalization and independence from political power. We have also improved transparency in the marketing of complex financial products, requiring a handwritten expression from the customer as a guarantee of their understanding. On the other hand, we have introduced financial prudence measures to avoid irresponsible over-indebtedness and, of course, we are implementing a profound reform of our financial system that has allowed its consolidation, restructuring and recapitalisation. As a result, our banks are among the most solvents in Europe today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time we have taken steps to facilitate de leverage and mitigate its depressive effect. To this end, throughout this legislature, we have been adopting various pre-competitive and competitive reforms to facilitate debt restructuring. Thus, with the Entrepreneurs Act, we established out-of-court payment agreements so that entrepreneurs could renegotiate their debts through a quick and simple procedure. We twice reformed the Competition Law to facilitate refinancing agreements and competitive agreements; the aim was to avoid the liquidation of viable companies affected by an excessive level of debt and, should this be unavoidable, to facilitate the full sale of productive units. At the same time, we are taking steps to protect the most vulnerable mortgage debtors, such as the code of good practice, the halting of launches or the creation of a social rental housing fund. With this second royal decree-law of second chance we reinforce these measures and expand them, and this is possible, ladies and gentlemen, for the fundamental change that the Spanish economy has undergone. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery is visible; our forecast, which, as usual, is prudent, points out that this year we can grow at around 2.5%, something that has not been seen since the beginning of the crisis, since 2007, while the market consensus currently plans to overcome this projection by approaching 30%. Today the financial system is in very different conditions, as I have already mentioned, it is solvent, well provided and able to contribute to recovery. If our entities did not have their balance sheets well-balanced and well-provided, we would not have been able to make this reform. I would also like to highlight the novelty of this second chance mechanism, because it establishes a permanent framework for personal insolvency. One of the central elements of this framework is the exoneration of debts with due guarantees in the context of a judicial process. It is a matter of reconciling the interests of creditors and debtors, safeguarding the culture of payment but at the same time offering a second chance for debtors in good faith; that is, giving these debtors the opportunity to re-carry their lives despite a business or personal economic failure so that they do not have to drag indefinitely the slab of a debt that they will never be able to satisfy. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that not fearing economic failure is key to business culture, which at the same time promotes prosperity and avoids falling into the submerged economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now go on to detail to you the main measures contained in this royal decree-law. First of all, I would like to refer to the measures of the out-of-court payment agreement. This is a more coherent and effective mechanism, in line with all the measures we have taken for debt restructuring and thus avoid the provision of creditor assistance and liquidation. Particular attention is paid to individuals, who will be able to access these agreements from now on. For this purpose, particularly simple rules are laid down and the tariffs of these procedures are significantly reduced, and we also expand the content and effects of these out-of-court agreements to assimilate them to pre-competitive refinancing, thus becoming a more effective instrument and achieving a more homogeneous and coherent pre-competitive framework. This is certainly an efficient way of extending it to secured creditors when the necessary majorities are in place. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reach an agreement, this rule empowers the figure of the competition mediator, who may be appointed as notary or registrar or be the notary himself; also the official chambers of commerce, from their experience, may be mediators in the case of companies or entrepreneurs. Finally, during the negotiations, the execution of goods necessary for the activity, including the usual housing, will be suspended. This will undoubtedly lead to greater trust and security for the debtor. Allow me to stop now, ladies and gentlemen, at the second chance mechanism. It involves a system whereby natural persons, be they entrepreneurs or families, who are debtors in good faith, may be exempted from debts which cannot be satisfied in a process of liquidation, i.e. with the intervention of a judge. They will agree with me that this exemption represents a qualitative leap in our insolvency framework that must be established with due caution. Therefore, the following requirements are laid down: first, all the debtor's assets must have been liquidated or the tender completed because there is not enough assets. Secondly, they must be debtors of good faith. Two exemption mechanisms are envisaged: the current possibility of exoneration of the remaining debts is maintained at the end of the liquidation of the assets provided that the preferred claims against the estate are currently paid and if no out-of-court settlement of payments has been attempted, 25% of the ordinary claims. Alternatively, and as a novelty, it is established that where the debtor has not been able to meet the above claims after the settlement of the previous claims, the debtor may be exempted from the rest of its claims except for the public and for food. This exemption mechanism works as follows: first, the exemption of all credits is granted except for public and food claims against the masses and those enjoying general privilege. In the case of creditors with a security right, the party that may be exempted shall be the party that would not have been covered by the enforcement of the security right. For non-exempt claims, the debtor must submit to a five-year payment plan to be approved by the judge; and most importantly: during this period no interest will be generated. If the debtor fulfils the payment plan, the definitive exemption will take place, and the judge may also grant this exemption when the debtor makes a substantial effort to comply with it even if it does not comply in its entirety. However, the definitive exemption will not be granted if, during these five years, the economic situation of the debtor improves substantially, it could re-pay all its debts and continue to take over its maintenance obligations; of course not in the event that the debtor had hidden property. It also establishes the necessary controls and guarantees to avoid strategic insolvency. On the other hand, it is also important to note that income from paid-up allowances is exempt from the IRPF. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to detail what I have already anticipated at the beginning of my presentation: the expansion of protection mechanisms for those most vulnerable mortgage debtors. As you know, since we adopted the code of good practice, in March 2012, there have been more than 12,500 debt restructurings and 3,800 payments. Well, we are now strengthening these measures by expanding the collective that can benefit from this code. To do this, we increase the annual income limit of the beneficiary families from the current €19,200 to about €22,400, raise the purchase price threshold of the properties affected by the code and include a new group, the over sixty years old. In turn, we extend the measures provided for in the code; now, in addition to restructuring debts, write-offs and payments, the debtors included in the code of good practice can benefit from the definitive non-application of the ground clauses. Finally, as you will recall, two years ago we adopted a measure that has allowed the suspension of more than 13,000 launches in regular homes, which ends next May. We therefore extend it for an additional two years and further equate its potential beneficiaries with those of the Code of Good Practice. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this royal decree-law also includes other measures that were announced by the President of the Government in the debate on the state of the nation; I shall now turn to them briefly. I will not mention them all because I do not extend too much, but I will stop at those we consider most significant. Overall, these measures will have an important impact in two key areas: the labour market and families. On the labour market, on the one hand, a new incentive for stable job creation is introduced. The first EUR 500 of the salary of the new indefinite contracts will be exempt from contributions. As you know, this measure replaces the current flat rate of EUR 100, which expires on 31 March at the end of this month and has benefited more than 200,000 people. To access this reduction, companies have to increase their workforce and maintain it for at least three years; this will undoubtedly have a significant impact on the labour market. The measure is also progressive and will particularly benefit the recruitment of the most vulnerable groups. On the other hand, as far as self-employed workers are concerned, we approved a one-per-cent bonus for one year in their contribution to social security for common contingencies. The condition is that he hires a worker to continue his activity while caring for children under the age of seven or dependent persons. This is an important measure for self-employed people, which joins the other measures approved by the Government to equate them with workers on behalf of others. With regard to families, first of all, we expand the group of beneficiaries that can access tax deductions of 1,200 euros per year, 100 euros per month. From now on, single-parent families with two children, pensioners or unemployed with benefits will also be able to access this assistance, as has already been done by large families with ascendants or descendants with disabilities in their care. Finally, this royal decree-law also includes the reform of the Judicial Fees Act, which is suspended for all natural persons in all legal orders and bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with a fundamental norm to further boost the economic recovery in which we are immersed. Today we validate a rule that has a triple impact: it affects the consolidation of our economy, it offers a second chance to those companies and citizens who are burdened by their debts and it extends social protection measures to the most vulnerable groups in our society. It is a rule, ladies and gentlemen, that it would not have been possible if the Spanish economy were not today in its seventh quarter of consecutive economic growth and acceleration, and in its sixth quarter of job creation. But above all, I would like to stress that the rule that we adopt today is linked to a broad list of actions that we have carried out so that the mistakes of the past will not be reproduced again. We have healed our banks, improved banking supervision, established a new institutional resolution framework, imposed new rules on the assumption of losses from crisis entities to prevent the injection of public money into financial institutions, strengthened corporate governance and created a new insolvency framework. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, will help us to continue to overcome the longest, most profound, complex and painful crisis in our recent history. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this, I trust that I will obtain your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. The Socialist Group has called for the use of the turn against the Royal Decree-Law. They will share the turn and, first of all, Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this royal decree, the government closes a lost legislature, a royal decree that resolves a debate about the state of the nation that you lost, that the government lost, a defeat that demonstrates the lost time and the useless sacrifices that the Spaniards have had to suffer and suffer in this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recalling what the Government announced before the debate on the state of the nation. The Vice-President of the Government, for example, said: It is now up to the middle classes to return the effort they have made. Nothing more and nothing less. The Secretary of State for Relations with the Courts, Mr. Ayllón, said that the debate would announce measures that would provide greater government support to those who had come out of the crisis worst. You have created very high expectations that certainly do not correspond to the royal decree that we are debating today. Minister, the legislature is practically closed in economic terms, you have closed it with this decree which again clearly demonstrates both the economic disorientation, as regards the economic policy of the government, and its social insensitivity, in economic and social terms. In economic matters, it is obvious. They have finally given up giving a new direction to the Spanish economy. It is true that we are growing and that even this year we may grow more than expected, but that is because we are doing exactly the opposite of what you have been preaching and even trying not to happen in Europe. Thus the ECB has turned 180 degrees in its monetary policy, started to buy public debt and this has led to a very considerable fall in interest rates, debt differentials and also in exchange rates. The Juncker Plan is a very timid step, but a step in the right direction to boost the aggregate demand of a eurozone on the verge of deflation and which has been almost sunk so far into stagnation and which, if it exists, is because in the European Parliament there was not a majority of its group, but a majority shared with other progressive groups. There has also been a further relaxation of the Stability Plan, which has allowed France and Italy to reduce the rates of debt and deficit reduction that led them to fall into recession. So there is a turn, which is not due to you, which can be the beginning of the end of austereicide and years of mistakes; years of mistakes that are not due to your turn, to a change in Spanish politics, because the turn in European politics has nothing to do with the efforts of the Spanish Government. It is a turn that benefits us greatly, despite you, and that we owe to the new Commission, to Commissioner Moscovici, to Presidents Renzi and Valls, but it is also a turn that must go further, a turn that must increase solidarity between Europeans, that must demand mutual obligations and also responsibilities such as debt and prevent the most vulnerable from continuing to pay the consequences of wrong prescriptions. Greece is the best example of how a country is paying for the consequences of wrong recipes despite any mistakes it might make. So we have an untapped legislature in Europe, where decisions are made. Ladies and gentlemen, the adjustment in Spain has been based on false and erroneous assumptions and has focused on the middle and working classes. The whole burden of the crisis has fallen on the most vulnerable and meanwhile the problems of the Spanish economy persist, even reappear. I liked it, Minister, that I recognized that the roots of the real estate bubble sink in the 1990s, sink in the false years of the false Spanish economic miracle, in those 1990s when the foundations of an unsustainable bubble were laid. Today, the old structural imbalances, precariousness, the duality of the labour market, the already negative contribution of the outside sector to growth, the construction as the only engine of growth reappears, we already have negative growth in productivity, R & D+i sinks and the creation and care of human capital and knowledge has been completely abandoned. A model of growth that is incompatible with increasing competitiveness is once again imposed, and it also generates inequality - yes, a great deal of inequality -, an increase in the social gap, an increase in poverty and an increase in inequality between men and women. Copays are imposed and, above all, opportunities for the most vulnerable are reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is dismissed with this royal decree, a royal decree which does not meet expectations, which does not return anything to the middle classes, as the Vice-President announced, let alone to the workers, a royal decree which demonstrates their social insensitivity and which will not rectify their economic policy. I insist, all the adjustment, your burden falls on the shoulders of the most vulnerable. The Royal Decree contains measures of all kinds - varied, urgent and non-urgent - on the second opportunity, the reduction of financial burdens and also on social issues. With regard to the second opportunity, it discriminates against self-employed persons and families against commercial entrepreneurs and does not resolve the issue of housing. There's no pay-as-you-go. As far as ground clauses are concerned, they are left virtually as they were and the code of good practice as well. In the field of employment, new recruitment exemptions are being created, which will only contribute to the deterioration of the solvency of the already fragile social security fund. In the family sphere, the measures envisaged are clearly regressive. In justice, judicial fees are finally eliminated, which certify a failure and expoliation of the most vulnerable of impossible redress. What are we going to do with all those who paid taxes and those who have been excluded from justice during these years? In addition, the procedure is a real mockery of Parliament. You have to remember how we got here. The 2011 reform of the Competition Law, which you voted on, and we too, one of the last laws of the previous Government, provided in its first additional provision that the Government would submit a proposal within six months to improve the situation of individuals and families who were in difficulty in meeting their obligations, and especially those who had mortgage guarantees. Mrs Báñez was one of the rapporteurs of that law and they voted in favour. They asked for six months and in three years there has not been a single proposal to address the issue of family over-renting. Two years later, when Royal Decree 11/2014 was validated in September last year, by which the new Competition Law was launched, we tabled amendments to regulate the second opportunity and those amendments have been alive until you, with another Royal Decree, have closed that process as a draft law of a Royal Decree of 2014. Of course, that is not the way: real decrees that close real decrees that were processed as draft laws. We do not believe that this should be legislative practice because it is a real mockery of Parliament. We must remember the amendments of my group and those of all groups to that draft competition law, which was going to deal with the second opportunity. In the meantime, my group and others have brought the second chance debate to this House up to ten times. With regard to the ground clauses, the People's Group withdrew on 4 February the bill to eliminate it which it had registered in Congress the previous day, despite the numerous court rulings declaring it null and void and ruling against financial institutions. In other words, there was a proposal for a law that was withdrawn the next day. This has been called express withdrawal and we would like to know what happened so that it could be so, because it certainly does not seem very consistent with what the royal decree has brought. In addition, the text that was withdrawn contemplated the elimination of all ground clauses, which shows the absolute lack of ambition of the royal decree that we are debating today, because you yourselves registered that project a month ago and withdrew it. Between 100 per cent of the clauses or what the royal decree provides, if we take into account their content, it will not reach 3 per cent of those affected compared to 100 per cent withdrawn in this so-called express project. This royal decree will mean that 97% of those affected by abusive clauses will have to continue to go to court to claim them, so that they will again be victims of banking creativity and absolute lack of protection before the courts. The same can be said, and few changes can be expected from the extension to 2017 of the assumptions that avoid releases on habitual housing for particularly vulnerable groups. This is also the case with changes to the exclusion threshold to protect debtors without resources. It should be remembered, Mr De Guindos, that when you announced and defended the royal decrees 6/2012 and 27/2012, which set in motion the code of good practice, you said that 120,000 mortgage executions could benefit from it, and this law provides for only 14,000. You have spoken of 3,000 avoidable executions last year, but we must remember that last year there were 44,000 mortgage executions and that they were 7% more than in 2013, so that we do not expect this royal decree to reduce at all that social scourge and that fundamental problem, which is what we try to solve in these years of legislature with our proposals that were defeated. For my part, I'm done. I now give the floor to Mr De la Rocha. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. Indeed, he shares his turn with Mr. De la Rocha.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as my colleague, Juan Moscoso, has pointed out, the royal decree-law whose validation is being debated at this time includes many issues, up to nine important issues. [[The lady]] I would like to announce that my group shares two of them, the amendment to the Basic Staff Regulations, which extends the negotiating matters to areas which include jointly officials, statutory staff and workers, and which also extends the negotiating tables and which is agreed with the trade unions, as well as changes in the regulation of agricultural income, so that the number of actual paid days required to access it as a result of the drought in the olive campaign will be reduced from 35 to 20, which would make it difficult for many workers to access the subsidy. Then I will address in part the elimination of court fees for natural persons, although we would have preferred - as we have always said - the total repeal of that law. The rest of the measures, ladies and gentlemen, either seem manifestly insufficient or we are against them because they are ineffective, unfair and some of them generate more inequality. The central core, as the Minister has explained, is the proposal for a second opportunity for families and self-employed people, entrepreneurs who are natural persons. The first thing to reiterate is that they are three years lost; three years in which hundreds of thousands of families and self-employed people have not had a useful tool to solve the problem of debt resulting from unemployment and the economic crisis. Many more than 120,000 families have been dispossessed of their habitual housing in these three years and tens of thousands, if not more, of self-reliant ones have failed because of the crisis and have been forced in many cases to move into the submerged economy because they have to respond so far with all their present and future assets. Many parliamentary groups, the Socialist Parliamentary Group specifically, have put forward initiatives of all kinds that have always been rejected by the Group of the European People's Party and the only measure it has brought here, as the Minister has recalled, was the Entrepreneurs Act. In that debate all the parliamentary groups, all but the People's Group, said that the reform of the Competition Law that it included was of no use, and it has been, of no use at all. That is why it is now intended to be rectified. This regulation is a step forward, a necessary and claimed step, but a step, in our view, insufficient; insufficient because it is unbalanced in many respects in favour of creditors, especially banking, because it is not a real definitive exemption from debts that can resurrect at least for the first five years and, above all, because the usual housing of families is in no way safeguarded. This decree-law if it is not treated as a bill and does not modify substantial aspects it contains, it has a high risk of getting back on wet paper, if it is not a second chance, but a missed opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, natural persons are obliged, all of them, to go through an attempt at an out-of-court settlement of payments, which, when mortgaged housing is at stake, is an agreement in which the other side is the bank. It is in the hands of the bank in a profoundly unequal relationship. If the bank accepts, if the bank wants, the problem can be solved, but we have seen and know that in the vast majority of cases the problem is not solved through an agreement. It has been said that there have been 12,000 or 13,000 resolutions through the code of good practice against 120,000 evictions. What's going on? It is planned to proceed to a simplified competition procedure before a judge in which, ladies and gentlemen, there is no possibility of safeguarding habitual housing, because the procedure always revolves around the liquidation of assets. It is not even foreseen, but it excludes payment in this procedure. Our parliamentary group tabled, in the decree-law being processed as a bill, an amendment with other groups on the second opportunity in which it is envisaged that the judge may in certain cases decide in favor of the maintenance of the housing. Nor does this decree-law contain any housing plan, any possibility of access to housing of which the Sareb has or of which banks have accumulated; and even more, I recall that this Government has challenged a law of the Andalusian Junta that allowed an exit to the evictions through empty housing. She has challenged her before the Constitutional Court to be paralyzed. Nor does the Decree-Law provide for a safeguard of habitual housing in the event of what has often been called in writing an irresponsible behaviour of the creditor, the bank. We know that in many cases some banks have abused people by providing overvalued mortgage loans to people without any financial culture, with abusive clauses. Abuse clauses are not eliminated; only those who can benefit from the code of good practice, which are very few, are eliminated. Why has this clause not been included, if there have been documents in the meetings we have had dealing with this matter? Undoubtedly, by the pressure of the banks. The bank must be satisfied with this final solution. Furthermore, this second chance proposal - which the Minister says is a definitive exemption - is not. Extinguished credits can be revived if in five years the economic situation of which it chooses for that second opportunity substantially improves. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that if an autonomous, who has failed because the crisis has taken over his business, starts a new business, he cannot go well or very well because if he goes very well he will go very badly, because the old creditors will come and they will try to charge him - they will charge him according to the decree-law - all the previous credits. Such a formula does not exist in any order of our environment, nor in the most advanced Europeans, nor in the United States, nor in the requirements made to the Government of Spain by the World Bank and the World Monetary Fund, nor in the recommendations of the European Union last March, in which total exemption was proposed. It is shocking that in the explanatory statement we try to justify this possible resurrection of the credits in the first five years based on the Seven Parties, with a reference to the Seven Parties Act, of Alfonso X the Wise, a law of 1265, of the thirteenth century, of the Middle Ages. [[Applauds]] Minister, in the Middle Ages the economy was a closed, rural, subsistence economy; today we live in a globalized, open economy. How you can bring those models into this economy. Let us use the models used by the countries with which we are economically related. A third major problem with this law is that it has unequal treatment of the self-employed in the face of the entrepreneur acting through a trading society. So far, inequality was absolute. The autonomous was subject to 1911 of the Civil Code. That is now cut, but there is still a profoundly unequal treatment. Why, Minister? I'll explain. As you have said from the rostrum, the autonomous to go to the procedure of exemption must pay the credits against the mass, all the public credits and the privileged credits, while the entrepreneur acting through a trading company, if the contest concludes by insufficiency of active mass - I recall Article 176a -, does not pay neither the public credits nor the general privilege. He does not have to pay anything and the entrepreneur, the natural person, sets up another company and does not have to assume any of the above credits. If there is settlement of assets, it is paid as far as it gets and public credits have only 50% privilege; the other 50% are ordinary credits. If a self-employed person has had one or more employees, he has not been able to pay the salary and has been paid by the Fogasa - the Fogasa has general privilege - why is the self-employed person going to have to drag the payment of the Fogasa when the employer, even when a productive unit is sold, provides for the Competition Law that the judge can exempt him from payment to the Fogasa? Why that unequal treatment? You have to explain to the self-employed why in this case you treat them in a much harder way than the rest of the employers. [[Applauds]] This bad so-called second chance law is not definitive, it does not correct the limited scope of the code of good practice, it does not remove the ground clauses in general, it does not dedicate a single line to access to housing, it does not approve the payment in the judicial phase and it presents a peculiarity that is very decisive for us: it does not even intend to prevent the loss of housing. Therefore, and with this I finish this point, it may be a missed opportunity. I want to devote the minutes I have left to other measures that the decree-law includes. The first is the elimination of court fees for individuals. Here the minister has done a very decent work of grooming, but this has its history, ladies and gentlemen. When the Tax Act was passed here, it was the law of the Ministry of Justice that most rejected has lifted from all those promoted by that Ministry, and note in all the passive burden that the Ministry of Justice at the time of Mr. Gallardon brought to this House. It was a law opposed by all parliamentary groups, all legal operators, trade unions and social entities. Why? Because it limited or prevented the exercise of a fundamental right, ladies and gentlemen, the right to effective judicial protection. The Government now rectifys and acknowledges that this was a mistake. The Government recognizes its failure and that it has limited or prevented many citizens from exercising a fundamental right with that law, which was not only a law of Gallardon, but was a law of the Rajoy Government. [[Applauds]] That is why we do not think it is enough for the rates to be eliminated. Here he promised Minister Gallardón in the House - often outside of here - that what was collected under the Tax Act would be used for free justice. But the Minister of Justice - now absent, although the elimination of fees for natural persons is being discussed - has already acknowledged that he does not know where that money went, that it has been diluted in the budget. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] It is a deception to citizens and to those who practice free justice. That is why I am asking the Government and the House how it will compensate all those who have seen their right to effective judicial protection violated and who were unable to go to the courts because they could not pay the fees. Now the Government recognizes its mistake, but are they going to replace those who have already paid the fee? [[Applauds]] Two final questions, ladies and gentlemen. The first is one of the star measures of the Ministry of Labour, the measure of promotion of indefinite employment through the exemption of social security contributions from the first 500 euros of the wage of the worker for indefinite recruitment. We have known for some years that aid measures by contributions to employers do not create employment and that they are neutral. There were very strong reports from the Evaluation and Quality Agency and one from the late Professor Luis Toharia - who came here to this House and explained it - that these exemptions are neutral. At most they are sometimes used to channel employment to certain disadvantaged groups - young people, women, long-term unemployed people or people over fifty or fifty-five years of age - but this measure is aimed at all. This measure is not directed at any collective. This measure is therefore not going to generate employment. Is it going to generate indefinite employment? Probably not. Undefined employment will arise by itself through the chaining of temporary contracts. There is no employment promotion measure. Our parliamentary group has sometimes supported and promoted, when it was governing the Socialist Party, measures through subsidies, not exemption from contributions. This difference is substantial, ladies and gentlemen, because the employer does not pay the premiums; it is paid by INEM, the Public Employment Service, or it is paid from the General State Budgets under the general tax heading. But the exemptions are paid by pensioners through the Social Security box; because the exemption means that no one contributes to Social Security. [[Applauds]] There have already been some important work by experts who, with 2014 employment data, have said that this measure is going to mean a gap to Social Security of 1.5 billion euros each year; 1.5 billion more deficit to Social Security, that this year 2015 comes with an already deficit budget of between 4.5 billion and 9 billion, according to reports by Funcas and Fedea, of course, institutions not close to the left. It is a gift from pensioners to entrepreneurs of 1.5 billion euros, which we do not share. I finish now, Madam President, with a very brief reference - because I know that I am passing the time - to the check for single-parent families with two children; the check of 1,200 euros by means of the tax deduction technique with the top of the social security contribution. This is not a universal benefit, which we could have shared or, in any case, our reflection would have been completely different. It's a deduction, whose? Of those who contribute. This means it won't reach the people who need it the most.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u31	Mr. De la Rocha, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u32	I'm done, Your Honor, one minute. It will not reach those who do not work; it will not reach those mothers who have a very low contribution or it will arrive very limitedly. The continuous household survey says that there are 471,000 single-parent households with two children; and the memory of the decree-law says that this measure will reach only 131,000 families; 27 per cent. Who stays out? Basically, women who do not work, who are out of work or who work for very few hours without wages or with very low wages. [[Applauds]] It is therefore a measure which benefits taxpayers with greater economic capacity and which is targeted at medium and high sectors and which generates enormous inequality. Now I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This decree-law has some facets that we support and others, most, with which we are against. Precisely so that it cannot be interpreted that a global negative vote would also mean a negative vote on those measures that we share, our vote will be abstention and we ask the Minister and the People's Group to process the decree-law as a bill to see if, through that process, we can resolve some of these black holes that this decree-law has. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u33	Thank you, Mr. De la Rocha. First of all, Mr Baldoví has the floor for the Joint Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. The year 2015 is inaugurated triumphantly at the stroke of royal decree, as we finished the others; royal decree, drawer of tailor; royal decree all fruits because of the tinkering of the proposals it has, denying again to the Parliament the processing of the debate or the possibility of dialogue and consensus. I myself have three minutes to discuss the multitude of measures that include this royal decree. The novelty of this royal decree includes two steps back, on corporation tax and on court fees. As now on my land we are in full failure, I will start with corporation tax. They made a half-way back when they realized they were getting into a big eggplant. It would be reasonable to revert to the tax exemption from corporation tax to non-profit entities. They will suffocate our parties, great economic engine, failures, Moors and Christians, fires, our musicians and small sports clubs. You should rethink this measure that's going to make our associative tissue jirons. Another half-way is the court fees. They have implicitly recognized that their decision has violated the right to effective judicial protection of citizenship, a fundamental right that many will no longer recover by no longer having time to appeal. Are they aware of the damage done to their impositions, their lack of dialogue and their blind obedience when pressing the button without ever failing a single time? More rectifications, second chance. Summary 2014 according to the INE: There are 70,000 mortgage executions initiated, more than 30,000 own homes, 7.4% more than in 2013. Under his Government, evictions have increased. The People's Party is responsible for leaving many people on the street and it will not be by proposals rejected one after the other by the majority. His idea now is to minimally expand the situations in which one can accept a measure that follows, let us remember, being voluntary for the banks. Examples: The code of good practice has affected only 0.7 % of those affected; the Social Housing Fund has granted only 0.4 % of the executions. His Government was looking for a leader because elections were coming, not seeking to solve a drama. In the words of the PAH, this decree will continue to exclude most of those affected. The reform of the Competition Law can only be accepted by debtors after saving a diabolical American track. I'm done. They include the debtor's good faith and the banks' good faith? This second opportunity is not for people, it is the fourth, the fifth, the sixth and the seventh opportunity for banks. One last point: Article 10 speaks of days to access the subsidy for agricultural unemployment and income for potential workers in two autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u35	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u36	When is the same for the Valencians? When's the same for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u37	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, it is disappointing that you have brought us today after what has been proposed or announced by the President of the Government on the day of the debate on the state of the nation, and not only because these are measures that come late, but because they are totally and absolutely insufficient. In addition, they demonstrate the number of mistakes that this Government has made and that have so severely affected the social majority. With regard to the so-called second chance, they only assume the motto, but not the actual content that enables new opportunities to re-start their lives for people who have suffered the effects of the crisis. The introduction of natural persons into the competition processes, particularly in the out-of-court agreements, is a step forward and we do not deny it, but very timid, taking into account the dramatic situation in Spain. In addition, their adoption is decided when very long years have passed when debtors have not had mechanisms to alleviate their situation, and this measure cannot be implemented retroactively. The regulation adopted only opens up possibilities for natural persons to take advantage of a competitive procedure in order to settle their debts. It is a second limited opportunity for debtors in good faith, but extended to financial institutions who maintain the possibility of acting against guarantors and also to fully recover debts in five years, even if they have forgiven them in a competitive agreement. As far as payment is concerned, only a minimal change in the code of good practice is included, which remains a code which excludes the majority of those concerned. The situation of over-indebtedness and the usual emergency suffered by the Spanish State requires courageous housing policies that this Government denies its citizens, such as retroactive payment, the actual moratorium on evictions and social rent. And with regard to the elimination of fees, which is a positive issue, we say again here that it is the recognition not only of a mistake but of a very serious injustice, and with this issue we do agree. Finally, Minister, the royal decree-law contains rules of dubious fit in an urgent context of this nature, such as the reorganization of trade union bargaining units in public administrations, which should be subject to a specific rule; it is also intended to approve a new caramel consisting of social bonuses to boost employment. Minister, insisting on increasing social contributions when we see that companies are saving heavily on labour costs for wage devaluation, imposed under the pretext of the crisis, does not seem to be the most appropriate measure and to charge that expenditure to Social Security much less. The problem is not labour costs, but to boost the productive economy, a subject in which this government has not made a specific effort. This royal decree, therefore, means continuing to legislate against the interests of people, relying on measures that have been proven to have been a failure and that allow large private banks, despite having received multi-million dollar public aid, to continue to instigate and execute mortgages. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. For the same group, Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we can say more, but the truth is that we cannot say more clearly: this law, if it has a second chance, is precisely the second chance once again given to the bank to charge, because the bank no longer knows what to do with so many empty floors, by the way, more floors than families have left on the street, and what it wants to do is to charge. In part, the proposal states that the code of good practice should be improved. A code of good practice for whom? A code of good practice actually for the bank. That is an oxymoron, ladies and gentlemen, and as an example, as the PAH recalls, the code of good practice since it was adopted three years ago has only recognised the payment in payment for 0.7 % of those affected, Minister - I repeat - only 0.7 % - I repeat - its good practice, its payment in payment does not reach even 1% and, as the PAH also reminds us, the Social Housing Fund has only granted social rents to 0.4 % of the mortgage executions. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, in fact, that you went to school; I am also convinced that you never, almost never, skipped the class of religion and that you learned to pray wonderfully, but I also assure you that you did not teach them either social justice or humanity. In short, I am ending, at this time, they continue to evict older persons rather than recognize their right to dependence; at this time, they continue to evict families with hungry boys and girls who are not even fed by the State; at this time, they continue to evict desperate men and women who have not guaranteed the constitutional right to work, let alone decent housing. And on top of this law - like the one with which they sold that it recognized the dation in payment - they intend to tide all these people, and in the background not only to tide, but also to deceive them. Indignant, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I can only say that they do not know the indignation and disgust that I feel at the same time at the moment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the same group, Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have often heard me say from this rostrum that your Government has a great deal of speed in responding to the demands, emergencies and anguish of the big banks, of the big companies, and a great deal of slowness in responding to those same increased anguish, the needs of the people on foot, of the small and medium-sized enterprises, of the self-employed, and this decree-law is a good sign of that; it is a decree-law that continues to respond to the interests of the banks, of the big companies, of the big creditors; it is a decree-law that comes late and moreover is insufficient, it remains very short, because although it does improve some situations - rather than better say that it leaves them less bad than they were - it does not respond to those emergencies of the people, and that is evident when we are analysing the fundamental element of this decree-law, which is the second chance. It responds more to an advertising aspect on the eve of elections, to give an answer and a feeling that something is being done, than to reality, because if we compare the second chance that you put in this decree with what is right now in the European context, for example in Germany - which is one of your great references - or in Austria, which also has a series of very demanding measures, the decree remains very short, it does not reach the guarantees that Germany or Austria make available to small creditors, to debtors in good faith, when from our point of view you would have to have put a much more social model, much closer to people, much closer to the reality of the citizenship of the Spanish State, such as that of the Scandinavian countries or of France, which is perhaps the most appropriate to our socio-economic reality. You keep putting your sights on the bank, on the creditors. They insist a lot that they have to be debtors in good faith, and I can agree with that - there really is no need to benefit or help those who disappoint, those who want to take advantage of the whole citizenship - but it is that you do not set the point of looking at ensuring that creditors are in good faith as well. As, for example, the French model states that the debtor is in good faith and the creditor is that he has to prove in any case the bad faith, in his own model in the end everything falls on the debtor, and in a way that is totally inefficient; that is, he will not respond to most situations. The situation of the self-employed - which is an important basis for the economy and for the creation of jobs on the street in this country - is very weak. And they are not facilitating their work, they have lowered the barrier of the obstacle a few centimeters, but the obstacle remains there to develop their activity with equal opportunities. That is why we say clearly that you are in the same approach as the whole legislature. They present here laws with beautiful titles, beautiful posters, attractive, neon lights that say: second chance. It seems that the issue is resolved and the real situation remains similar to that of the past. The code of good practice - which you have launched - has proved to be a failure, because the people who have been able to welcome have been a minority. We see that the paid allowance is still not on the table as a real option for people suffering from the distress of the socio-economic situation. If we see single-parent families with children, which you now, with a large and beautiful sign, say that you are going to give an aid of 1,200 euros, it sounds very good, but when in the end you look at who you can take in, you see that single-parent families with less economic opportunities, with less income, are not going to be able to take advantage of that situation. In short, I think they need to be rectified, even if they no longer have time because they are out of the legislature. It is a lost legislature from the point of view of social justice and of responding to the situation of people with fewer possibilities, it is a lost legislature from the point of view of responding to the structural problems of the Spanish state economy, which remain the same as when you entered, but with an aggravating: that the years have passed and have increased, and when the next crisis comes the consequences will be even worse than the current ones, and will continue to suffer from them by the weakest people, as now, while the great fortunes, the big companies, the companies of IBEX, the big banks will continue to count on the support of the governments, which are fed by these revolving doors. In the end, as I said before, governments are acting with great speed, with great speed to respond to the needs and emergencies of large companies, but with great slowness to respond to the anguish of people on foot, of people on the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u43	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. We moved on to the Basque Group, PNV. Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness, as the Minister explained to us, the government is bringing to the House today Royal Decree-Law 1/2015 of 27 February, to process its validation. This royal decree includes much of the measures announced by President Rajoy in the debate on the state of the nation, which we then qualify as electoralists and which today we have no choice but to requalify in that way. Many of these measures are positive, Minister, and although they are now being dealt with by the urgency procedure, they would have to have been adopted a few years earlier, when the crisis was deeper and we were demanding it from other parliamentary groups, although then the elections did not stalk and the results of the surveys were not so negative. I am sure you remember, Minister, the many times we have spoken in this House about the need for a second chance law to rescue thousands of people trapped in the crisis, and that they are having a bad time. There was an important consensus on this, and the People's Group then told us no; now it stands before the banner, they unilaterally approve the measure, and it calls for us without further accession. We believe in this sense that it is a political game that does not seem to us of good taste, it is not excessively elegant, but we believe in spite of everything that the part of the second chance is an issue that had to be resolved in any case, and as I said it seems to us a positive step. The royal decree-law includes four areas. One, the competition system, adopting measures to reduce the financial burden and introducing the so-called fresh start, as well as measures to promote employment, the tax area, and the scope of the Administration of Justice, with exemption from certain fees to natural persons. Of the four areas mentioned, the main theme is the first one, the one referring to the second opportunity in insolvency cases, although the measures taken in the field of promotion, as we will highlight, are of particular interest to our group. We will start with measures to reduce the financial burden, which are aimed at enabling debtors, honest natural persons, whether entrepreneurs or not, to have their assets liquidated for the benefit of creditors, but which have not been able to settle the total debts, to be freed from the outstanding debt after the aforementioned liquidation of their assets. It is appropriate, before analysing the measures envisaged to achieve this, to take into account the background, the incentive engine of what has been approved by this royal decree-law. On the one hand, the international institutional reminder, through the European Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, and the World Bank, which since 2012 have been promoting such measures, both for natural and business people - the most common example is that of self-employed people - and for natural persons who are non-entrepreneurs or consumers, as the European institutions call them. And on the other hand, the constant internal institutional pressure, through the Ombudsman's Office, autonomous defenders, and above all as I said to you through initiatives of parliamentary groups in this House. As you can see, there are many voices that have mobilized the Government in our view in this reform. I will then try to analyse the material contents of what we call second chance, the flexibility of pre-payment out-of-court arrangements, providing for a real second chance mechanism. As elements of this new regime, we find ourselves first and foremost with the extension of its scope to non-entrepreneurial natural persons. Please note that these out-of-court agreements were already applicable to natural persons and entrepreneurs through the provisions of the Entrepreneurship Support Act, but not to non-entrepreneurs. We must remember that in the Spanish system there is the circumstance that while companies, legal persons, limit their risk to the capital contributed, natural persons maintain their debt eternally with their present and future assets. This negative discrimination that had been eliminated for natural persons and entrepreneurs through the Entrepreneurship Support Act is now eliminated for non-entrepreneur natural persons, and it seems to us, Minister, a good measure; although the company can die more easily than the civilian death of a natural person, and this we will have to arrange in the process as a bill. On the other hand, the Royal Decree-Law regulates a simplified mediation procedure, a procedure which is carried out provided that the estimate of the liability does not exceed EUR 5 million in a short period of time before a trade registrar or notary, who are the proposers of a mediator, introducing the possibility of acting as such the chambers of commerce, industry, navigation and services, if the debtor is an entrepreneur or notaries if they are natural non-entrepreneurs. The agreement in the case of non-entrepreneurs may consist of withdrawals, waiting for up to ten years, and disposal of goods in payment or for payment of credits. It also provides for the possibility, with the approval of certain majorities, of extending the effects of the agreement to dissident secured creditors, which constitutes an advance against the voluntary submission regime in force previously. This out-of-court system co-ordinates a debt-exempt regime for the debtors of natural persons in the context of the court proceedings. Without going into excessive technical details, it should be noted that for mortgage claims, once the mortgage has been executed, since it is a privileged and therefore non-exempt credit, in the event that the full satisfaction of the mortgage loan has not been achieved, the remaining debt would be transferred to the ordinary credit status and could be exonerated. Clearly, the question of the family guarantors and guarantors of the insolvent debtor is left aside, in most cases the parents, who mortgage their habitual dwelling to endorse or trust the debtor, and who see how creditors turn against them and enforce the guarantees on their dwellings. In this regard, we will propose that the measures provided for in the Royal Decree-Law apply equally to mortgage guarantors in respect of their habitual housing provided that they are under the same conditions as those laid down for the mortgage debtor. The code of good practice for the viable restructuring of mortgage-guarantee debts on habitual housing, introduced by Royal Decree-Law 6/2012, is also improved, and the final non-application of the default clauses of debtors under the new exclusion threshold that they had included in their contracts is introduced. However, the code of good practice remains voluntary, Minister, which makes it lose some of its potential. In the process as a law of this royal decree we will propose that the code of good practice be mandatory compliance by credit institutions or any other entity that professionally carries out the activity of the granting of loans or mortgage credits. Also, until 2017, the suspension of launches on regular housing of particularly vulnerable groups, as provided for in Law 1/2013 of 14 May, is extended; something is something, but the crisis, Minister, is going to last much longer and the deadline should be wider. I am going to get involved in the measures in the area of employment promotion. Article 8 of the Royal Decree-Law establishes a minimum of EUR 500 exempt from social security contributions in order to promote the creation of indefinite employment, regulating the so-called benefit in the contribution of business shares to social security by common contingencies for cases of indefinite recruitment, in any of its modalities, subject to a number of conditions of job creation. The second paragraph of this Article 8 states that this benefit in the contribution shall consist of a bonus where the employment occurs with workers registered in the national youth guarantee system who meet the requirements laid down in Article 105 of Law 18/2014 of 15 October 2014 and a reduction for the remainder. This implies that in the case of the bonus the Social Security will receive the amount of the unpaid contribution, and in the case of the reduction there will be a permanent reduction of the income of the Social Security for such amount. This bonus shall be compatible with the bonus provided for in Article 107 of Law 18/2004, which provides for a monthly bonus of EUR 300, for a period of six months, for the recruitment of a worker registered in the Youth Guarantee Scheme. It would also be with the financial aid accompanying the activation programme for employment, if the indefinite contract were to be formalised with a person benefiting from this programme, as provided for in Articles 7 and 8 of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, which provides for aid amounting to EUR 426 per month, during the six-month period. Finally, paragraph 11 of this Article 8 states that the bonus shall be financed from the corresponding budget item of the Public State Employment Service, and shall be co-financed from the European Social Fund when it meets the requirements laid down, and the reduction shall be financed by the Social Security revenue budget, including for its part in paragraph 9 the application of this benefit in the contribution, which shall be monitored and reviewed by the Public State Employment Service, by the General Treasury of Social Security, and by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in the exercise of the functions assigned to them respectively. For its part, Article 9 of Royal Decree-Law 1/2015 provides for a 100 per cent bonus of the quota of self-employed for common contingencies, for a period of up to twelve months, in certain cases of family burdens. In this case, the Royal Decree-Law does not specify which body or administration will finance this bonus in favour of self-employed workers for the above-mentioned cases, so that in the absence of an express attribution to the Basque Autonomous Community, and in the same line as referred to in Article 8(11) above, it must be understood that this rule seeks to apply the system which we may call common, contained in the first paragraph of the third additional provision of Law 43/2006 of 29 December, for the improvement of growth and employment, which states: the bonuses provided for in the employment promotion programme regulated by this Law shall be financed from the corresponding budget line of the State Public Employment Service. As you know, Minister, the Basque Autonomous Community has material competence for the management of active employment policies: the implementation of labour legislation, in accordance with Article 149.1.7a of the Constitution and Article 12.2 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. The transfer of the means for its performance took place through the agreement of the Joint Commission on Transfers of 28 October 2010, approved by Royal Decree-Law 1441/2010 of 5 November 2010, paragraph B.2 of which states that the autonomous community is responsible for the development of all implementing functions in the field of employment promotion and support, and those which, in relation to active employment policy programmes set out in labour legislation, are developing within the Autonomous Community of Euskadi the State Public Employment Service. It also states in paragraph (b): incentives for recruitment, by means of the system of subsidy of social quotas, in accordance with the provisions of State legislation, in relation to workers in work centres located in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as well as in relation to self-employed workers in the same community. In accordance with the principles of the Social Security System, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country shall compensate the latter for the cost of such bonuses, in accordance with paragraph G.3.b of this Agreement. On the other hand, Minister, in accordance with the agreement of the Joint Committee on Transfers of 22 June 2011, approved by Royal Decree 895/2011 of 24 June 2011 on the transfer of functions and services in the field of public service, in the field of inspectorate, of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, it is specifically for the Autonomous Community of Euskadi to monitor and require compliance with the statutory rules, and the regulatory content of collective agreements in the following areas: employment or placement, vocational training, continuing employment, temporary employment undertakings, placement agencies, and integrated service plans for employment, and in collaboration with the General Treasury of Social Security, incentives for recruitment through the system of social quota subsidies. In the light of the above, it can be concluded that Articles 8 and 9 of Royal Decree-Law 1/2015 of 27 February, ignore the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, while attributing to the Public Employment Service the financing, as well as the control and revision of the bonuses of the business quotas of the Social Security for indefinite recruitment of workers registered in the national youth guarantee system, not so for the reductions by indefinite recruitment of other workers, and of the allowances in favour of self-employed workers for the care of children under seven years of age in their care, and of dependent family members. Finally, it should be noted that the references to the control and revision of these bonuses contained in article 8, paragraph 9, of the Royal Decree-Law, as well as in the fourth paragraph of the third additional provision of Law 43/2006, in relation to the bonuses of self-employed workers, which confer on the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate such control and review functions, must be understood in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree 895/2011 of 24 June, which specifically assigns to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi the exercise of the functions assigned to the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate with regard to the control and revision of the allowances of social security quotas. Mr Minister, there are already a number of infringements of competition and breaches of the rules of the game in this area. The new competitive violation presented by this royal decree-law in relation to active employment policies is repetitive. In October 2013, the Basque Government brought an action for unconstitutionality for the aid of EUR 400 for long-term unemployed persons, included in the Preparatory Plan, of Royal Decree 1/2013 of 25 January, extending the programme of professional requalification of persons who exhaust their unemployment benefit. So, just as now, the Spanish Government included a series of aid to unemployed people who had exhausted their unemployment benefit, which financed, decided and managed the Public Employment System, when Lanbide had to do so in Euskadi. It also took place in Act No. 18/2014 of 15 October 2014 on the management and financing of the national youth guarantee system for the same reasons. Finally, on 3 March last, the Government approved the application for unconstitutionality by several articles of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, regulating the activation programme for employment, for violation of the competences of active employment policies, as well as the State-Euskadi financial relationship of the Economic Concert. For us, Minister, as you will understand from the point of view, this issue is serious and we are not prepared to fail to comply with the agreements or the competition framework. This issue has to be resolved, in our view, in a clear way in order to avoid competitive conflicts when treated as a bill; otherwise we would have to interpret it politically as a genuine affront of considerable dimensions. It is for this reason, and not for the first part to which I have referred, that we will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law, but in the hope that, throughout the process of the project, we will be able to correct the issues to which I have referred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u45	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Once again we are faced with a real decree-law that touches on a wide variety of completely unrelated issues, and that in most cases at all have the constitutional requirement of urgency. We have divided the intervention into two parts, and I am going to explain what we think of the second opportunity, as presented by the Government, and of an important issue that appears in Title III of this royal decree-law: the maintenance of judicial fees for legal persons. I will start on this side, which is perhaps equally important, but it will require less exposure time, and it is easier to understand. They have withdrawn the judicial fees to natural persons, thanks certainly to an initiative of my group, which seems to us undoubtedly an important advance, and as also happens with this royal decree-law here are mixed important advances with healing measures, raccoons and insufficient ones that keep the problems, and one of them is that you leave the judicial fees alive for legal persons, which in this case are above all a huge number of SMEs, many of them very small, and also some NGOs and other associations, which as legal persons will have to continue to pay fees, which goes against the one so proclaimed by your ministry, by the way, Mr De Guindos, objective of supporting SMEs in order to create employment. If SMEs have difficulty accessing litigation in court, and also have to pay fees when in many cases they are SMEs that have a much lower income and economic level than many natural persons, we are actually doing exactly the opposite, so I take the opportunity to ask you on behalf of my group to remove all the judicial fees that Mr Gallardón introduced, including the fees of all legal persons, to return to the previous regime. With regard to the second chance, this is truly a paradoxical story. You have brought here a second chance proposal as a result of the failure of the code of good practice that you promised as a panacea, when, by the way, my group, in March 2012 already three years ago, presented for the first time in this legislature - I had that honour in addition - a proposal for a second chance law, which then in different forms have presented practically all the other opposition groups, and which in all cases you have rejected once after again, ensuring that with the code of good practice the objectives pursued by the second chance were to be met. The code of good practice was even reformed for the second time. The case is that it has obviously been a failure. Why? Because in the end the conditions for benefiting from this code were so restrictive that very few - less than 40,000 interested - have been able to benefit from it, especially for a very simple reason, because the extent to which it was a voluntary code left in the hands of the creditor the conditions that it could impose on the debtor, so that the creditor remained, as it continues with this bill, defenceless in the face of abusive, exaggerated and illegitimate protection of the interests of creditors in the case of unpaid debts. Here's the thing. Of course I take it that you are supposed to understand - although I sometimes have my doubts - that we are talking, as we did in March 2012, about solving the problems of debtors arising for reasons beyond your control, that is, debtors of good faith and not speculative or other debtors. As you said in any case, you have rejected all the proposals that have been made as a second chance, and now you are bringing this to us. The excuse with which he rejected the previous ones - and which now, by the way, do not explain why it has disappeared - is that this jeopardized the solvency of the banking system and, in fact, would have counterproductive effects such as increasing mortgage credit and thus further slowing the take-off of the economy. Moreover, they said that precisely if the second chance law could not be passed was because because of the deep economic crisis we were going through, doing so would be counterproductive to get out of the crisis. It is a very bad exclusion, because you know perfectly well - and you in particular, Mr De Guindos - that all the countries in our environment and in the developed world with a more prosperous economy and that they have managed to get out of the crisis before Spain and where the crisis has been less profound, have second- chance laws, and that both the International Monetary Fund and the European Union and other international institutions like the World Bank have made repeated recommendations to all countries, of course including Spain, to have laws that liquidate the unpaid debts arising from causes outside the debtor. Spain lacked that law - and by the way, when this royal decree is passed it is going to continue to lack it - but I wonder why you have never come to realize that perhaps this is one of the reasons why our crisis has been longer, deeper and with greater social damage in terms of increasing inequality and poverty than in those countries with which you were supposed to want to compare, acting in a completely different way. [[The Lord]] The result of the People's Group's rejection of all second- chance bills has been that almost 120,000 families since 2012 have been losing their usual housing. I am not talking about second homes, majestic residences, industrial ships or commercial premises; I am talking about your usual home. According to official data from his own Government, in 2012 38,961 families lost her; in 2013, 39,051 families, and last year, 2014, more than 40,000, which adds up to more than 120,000 families. In addition, an unknown number of families - not yet calculated - have had to sacrifice virtually any other expenditure or investment to devote most of their family income to paying outstanding mortgage credits, with results such as increasing child poverty, energy poverty and others. For more inri, above all the banks that executed these mortgages in many cases have been rescued with public funds that have paid those same people who have then been deprived of their habitual housing for their refusal to make a genuine second chance law. Truly, one cannot be more cruel, less compassionate to the citizens, and one cannot have a less sense of justice. Before his group referred to mine again insulting and called us miserable. It is miserable to refuse to do what all the countries of the civilized world whose effectiveness is proven to do, which are second- chance laws that manage to maintain both the solvency of the financial system and the right of citizens not to be persecuted for life for an unpayable debt when they are in debt. In fact, in your own explanatory statement of the royal decree-law you say that the aim of this second chance measure is to prevent - prevent - the launching into the submerged economy of those who are the victims of unpaid debts. Then you are admitting yourself that in these three years in which you have refused to approve these measures you have thrown into the submerged economy an unknown number of citizens, including SMEs and self-employed people also often ruined by the lateness of public administrations. In other words, with their attitude more banking than that of banking, more papist than that of the Pope, what they have achieved is to increase tax fraud and the submerged economy. So, how the hell are you going to reduce taxes if what you're doing is lowering the social tax base because what you're doing is driving out the submerged economy to a lot of entrepreneurial people who could have an economic future if there was a second chance law. Finally, it is said that it is never too late if bliss is good and they have brought us a second chance proposal. But is it really? It is not, and it is not, because the essence of the law of second chance is no other, under its different forms - there are many variants, of course - that liquidation or exemption - so that we understand everyone and not get lost in technicalities that are sometimes used to bury the content of the fund - of the repayable debt that a debtor has. What about the proposal you make? That the debt is not extinguished, it is not eliminated, because for the five years following the second chance competition if the debtor recovers his or her assets or makes a new one, the creditor may resuscitate that outstanding debt and reclaim to him or to his or her guarantor to pay that debt which, therefore, has not been extinguished. And if the debt hasn't been extinguished, it's not a second chance, you can call it what you want. It's not true, it's a thyme. It is a system that, in fact, introduces some improvements that were absolutely evident - which our group also proposed when the reform of the Competition Law was discussed and discussed - such as allowing individuals to assist creditors, preliminary agreements, agreements with the creditor, etc., but giving the creditor absolute privilege over the debtor that he may resuscitate the debtor status of that subject subject to a second chance, which has not been such. So what we have here is a debt deferral system, not exemption, not liquidation. It's not a second chance law. Don't call things with names that don't belong to them. Say it is an amendment to the Competition Law under certain conditions, very well, but if the debt is not extinguished, it is not a second chance law. We're not gonna get tired of repeating it. [[Rumors]] I am not going to get tired, because I know that you are absolutely impervious to the arguments and that you give everything exactly the same, but to society not and soon you will be able to verify it. This is a second chance law, but for the People's Party, this is what happens, not for the citizens that you, in essence, despise. Of course, our group will not be able to support the validation of this royal decree under these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u47	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr. Hook, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I have the honour to set the position of the Progressive Union and Democracy on the rest of the royal decree, which has nothing to do with the second chance or the judicial fees. Once again the spokesmen of the opposition have to start our speeches by thanking the Minister and the majority group for their faith in our capacity for synthesis and analysis. They think that in a few minutes we can not only summarise, but discuss and analyse a series of measures whose only enumeration would consume the totality of the time available to us. Faced with that faith in our capacity for analysis, we maintain our faith that they stop legislating like this, because this gives rise to debate simulations and that not even the groups can determine their position by voting, because we are forced to vote simultaneously on a set of measures on which we do not usually have the same position. The measures that I have to discuss perhaps the most relevant is the reduction in social security contributions for indefinite recruitment. They replace the flat rate with a new mode of decrease, which is to exempt the first 500 euros from the contribution base. It seems to us a better design, because the flat rate was a regressive design, it increased the aid the higher the income. That regressivity is corrected by this new measure. Faced with this improvement in design, we believe that the usual problems of such measures, from these stimuli to indefinite recruitment, will be maintained, and that they are very expensive and inefficient. They are very expensive, and this is going to be so, because it is proposed as a reduction - except for the young people who will pay for it by the European Union - and this means that the social security system is going to enter every year 1,000 or 1.5 billion euros less because of this measure. Therefore, it is a very expensive measure. However, it is inefficient, because academic literature has shown over and over again that these bonuses to indefinite recruitment do not really create employment, they simply replace one form of employment with another; they divert employment to the type of subsidized recruitment, but they do not create employment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Minister, if the flat rate - which is a greater stimulus than it now replaces it - has not worked, if 92% of our jobs are still temporary, do you really believe that with this new stimulus, similar in substance to the previous one, this situation will change? We don't think so. We believe that the Government's approach to work is entirely contradictory. On the one hand, it implements labour reform laws that make employment precarious; more precarious impossible, 92 % temporary and of the indefinite 40 % part-time and, once it has been precarious, they say: we are going to improve indefinite employment to see if an indefinite contract is signed. Why don't we do the other way around? Why don't we - as you have been proposing Union, Progress and Democracy for years - do a job reform to end precariousness? It would be a job reform based on the indefinite single contract and, once the contracts were indefinite, we would save these 3,000 or 4 billion euros to improve the indefinite contract and dedicate them to training or to increasing the coverage of our unemployed, because there are 3 million unemployed who today have no coverage. Let us go to the root of the problems; let us not create the problem and then try to solve the symptoms that the legislation itself is causing. The second measure included in this royal decree is the agricultural subsidy in Andalusia and Extremadura. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, not because there are elections in Andalusia within a few days, but because there is drought, the Government has decided to reduce the number of days to be paid to access the agricultural subsidy in Andalusia and Extremadura. We agree, but whenever we deal with this program we wonder - like other speakers - why only in Andalusia and Extremadura. If this is really necessary, are there no agricultural workers in the other communities? Does it make sense today that a Castile-La Mancha worker works on olives in Andalusia or Extremadura and is not entitled to this subsidy because he does not reside there? Why is this character localized? Why are conditions softened not according to the needs of those affected, but according to the electoral needs of the incumbent Government? The third measure concerns self-employed workers. Again, not because they are a very large group and because there are elections soon, but because they must have increased their need to reconcile recently - before they did not need to reconcile family life and, for some reason, their need to reconcile has increased recently - the Government facilitates conciliation. The social security contribution of the self-employed person who hires another person is increased to enable him to care for persons under seven years of age, his family or dependent persons. It seems to us a good measure, although, knowing how the self-employed work and their situation, there will be few who can afford to use this offered to them. It's a way to get a nice headline with little budget cost. If we really care about the situation of self-employed workers, are there not other important needs of self-employed workers that have been debated in the House for a long time and that are not solved? For example, lateness not only private, but public that still exists. For example, the difficulty of access to credit or that the self-employed contribute on a fictitious minimum basis that often exceeds their real income. This measure is welcome, but why are we not going, as in the case of work, to the root of the problems and not only to low-cost, very numerous announcements that are good in the debates of the State of the Nation or in the face of election appointments? The same applies to tax measures, which are very weak. Some go to single-parent families with two descendants who, as other spokespersons have quoted, are not going to go to the most needy families; and others, in some cases, to exempt companies that enter less than 50,000 euros from filing the corporate tax return. The filing of the return is a formal obligation that has nothing to do with paying the tax and often these companies have returns to return. Again, it is another measure that sounds good and gives for a good headline, but with little practical effect. If you want to go to the bottom of the problems, why, when tax reform has not been discussed here, has it not been used to make a thorough tax reform that would lower the IRPF from the income of dependent labour that they pay in Spain Nordic taxes? Why not, as proposed by the Progressive Union and Democracy, that those who earn less than EUR 14,000 are exempt from IRPF? Why not make the marginal rate start to apply from 95,000 euros as in countries of our environment and not from 60,000 as applied in Spain? Why not address the issue of educational and cultural VAT, which is dealt with in discussions and journalistic headlines, but still remains uncorrected? Why not moderate the IBI of the first dwelling and differentiate between usual and second and third dwellings? In short, the approach of the royal decree is the same on all subjects; it deals with very varied topics but always with the same approach, which is not to go to the root of the problems, but to look for journalistic headlines, headlines for a debate on the state of the nation, headlines for upcoming elections, with little practical effect and with little budget cost. This reminds us of the rides of kings, when the Magi, near the magical night, near the election night, throw the candy children to forget that the other 364 nights were very dark. The problem with this approach is that voters are not children, they are adults, and these candy instead of appeaseing their anger may increase their irritation. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2015 begins at the end of 2014, with the repeated and increasingly brazen abuse by the government of the decree-laws and with the totality of this Congress, of Parliament. We are faced with a new omnibus decree-law; in this case, a totum revolutionum of laws that is impossible to discuss together and much less vote them in one direction, and that is already a degradation of this Congress. That the government abuses the decree-law is not just us, the Constitutional Court has just said this in its decision of 19 February on Royal Decree-Law 11/2013, part-time work. Despite this, the Government insists on the blatant use of the decree-law and on that kind of new state of constitutional exception to which it has converted the legislative power. The Plural Left is not going to be an accomplice to this democratic degradation. Therefore, we are against the validation of a decree-law that affects eleven different subjects from four ministries, which does not mean that we are against all its contents. That is why I will try to unravel our opinion on each of the issues and raise some of our alternatives. First, let me ask the government two questions. Can the Government explain to us where the extraordinary and urgent need required by the Constitution for decree-laws is? The decree-law ceases to be extraordinary when it becomes the usual way to legislate. Where is the extraordinary character, if that's what they always do? And as for urgency, that's where we give them the reason, yes sir. What you bring here is very urgent; so much so, that The Plural Left raised the second opportunity for the first time in February 2012, and you have repeatedly refused to approve our proposals and those of the rest of the groups. The same applies to judicial fees, which for three years have prevented citizens from accessing justice for economic reasons; or to so-called pedestrians, who are now forced to give retroactive effect because they have not acted before. You have a very curious concept of urgency, Mr. De Guindos. When it is urgent to protect the rights of citizens, the PP is in no hurry, it takes three years. Instead, when urgency is the electoral necessity of the People's Party, then the government acts at full speed, of course. That, yes, with the no permanent one in this House. Can anyone from the Group of the European People's Party explain to me whether it is acceptable that Mrs Báñez, Mr Montoro and Mr Catalá are not here in the debate when discussing a decree-law that they have signed? Can we have more contempt for the activity of this Legislative? Can democracy be more despised than the government is currently doing to this House? [[Applauds]] Of course, there may be an explanation. Perhaps it is because the Minister of Justice does not dare to appear to explain why the government's change of position on court fees and what he has done with the EUR 612 million collected during this time. Perhaps it is because the Minister of Employment does not dare to give her face to explain why the 1,500 million euro gift to companies and its constant changes of opinion on the policy of bonuses, exemptions and quotas, which seems to dance La Yenka every time she comes here to talk about exemptions and bonuses to Social Security. [[Applauds]] This decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, has more electoral propaganda than legislative policy. The People's Party government has turned the Council of Ministers into a political market company, the BOE on its main platform and on Fridays on the day of the week, and that's what you do in many of the rules you pass. That's it. His decrees-laws are more and more like those letters from those chic restaurants, where the name of the dish occupies more space than the dish they put on you. They don't put on a plate, there's nothing. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Laugh, Mr. De Guindos, but you're playing with people's rights. What they present us today as a second chance is a second penalty. It is true that in some respects it is progressing, but it is the minimums. It continues to be a placebo and also with traps. For three years you have been refusing, as the Zapatero government unfortunately did before, to offer a solution and Spain is the only country that does not have a law worthy of second chance together with Hungary and Bulgaria. And when they decide to do so, they do it half way and they don't copy the best, but the worst of other countries. Why? Mr. De Guindos, when you read, if you read, you'll understand. Listen to your intervention today and the others, because you are more obsessed with protecting the mortgage market. For you the country is statistics, not people. Therefore, the right to housing and decent living is always a subsidiary of the mortgage market. That's what we've been told for three years, and that's what you've been telling us again today. As things get better, let's see if we give families a second chance, and they don't. Do you really believe that argument you say you have not done so before to avoid strategic defaults? Think about it. Think, please, and think of people. Is it really believed that people stop paying and offer their only usual dwelling in payment for strategic calculations? What world do you live in? The PP presents this measure as others. You present yourselves as liberals, you especially. Mr. De Guindos, I've never seen a major interventionist like you. You're not a liberal, you're a class interventionist. If you were a liberal, you would have been here today copying, for example, some of the laws of the United States, where you are very clear that when doubtful claims are granted that are not later paid, who assumes insolvency, bankruptcy or a part is also the creditor, the bank, because this encourages self-control of the financial system, which you are not, because you are liberal for profits and interventionists for losses, but only of banks, not of people. You are responsible for insolvency and bankruptcy in debtors. They forget one basic thing: they are people who have lost their jobs or pensioners who have made endorsements of their children, in many cases single-parent families, separated and divorced women. Besides that, in addition to being class interventionists, let me tell you, you are imbued with a deep Lutheran, Judeo-Christian culture, guilt, punishment and scaring. I'll explain it to you. [[Applauds]] The decree-law has a lot of that, Lutheran, Judeo-Christian. Therefore, you do not presume as in the United States of the debtor's good faith, but his guilt. Look, I'm talking to you about the United States, not the Supreme Soviet. They therefore require the debtor to demonstrate his good behaviour by not rejecting an offer of employment in the previous four years. That is why they impose a kind of probation for five years during which in some cases they must be working for creditors. That is why they even impose on them in this decree-law the burden of the costs of the contest. Do you realize who you're talking about? Is it believed that someone who is in bankruptcy can pay the costs of the creditors' contest? No, gentlemen, you're not doing well. The result of what you present as a second opportunity not to guarantee guarantees neither the right to the use of habitual housing. Can there be a second chance for someone's life without a roof to live in? Do you know what it's like to live on the street? You know that? [[Rumors]] And it goes for you, do you know what it's like to live on the street? How can they present a decree-law that says that the right to habitual housing is not guaranteed? And that's what they call a second chance? [[Applauds]] Requiring the insolvent debtor to present the tender within two months of the insolvency, if the insolvent is not found guilty, that is what you maintain in this regulation, is not to understand that we are talking about people, that we are not talking about a multinational, a real estate company. Our proposals, we have presented them to you, for those who say that we always say no, we have them and they are presented as amendments to the Competition Law, they take advantage of the best experiences of the United States and the most advanced experiences of Europe. For example, that mechanisms of extrajudicial mediation are a right, not an obligation or a requirement. For example, the protection, in any case and above the rights of creditors - there is the vault key of the second chance; in any case and above the rights of creditors -, the protection - I say - of those basic rights so that the second chance is real, effective and allows a dignified life. What are they? They are drawn into European legislation: the use of the usual housing even after it has been delivered in payment; the goods necessary to guarantee food, electricity, gas, water, schooling and health, including - and I will say so - the cancellation of the consumer credits necessary to buy those goods, as is the case in United States legislation; also the professional tools so that people, self-employed, can continue to develop their profession and trade, earn a living and be able to return their credits. Minister, that is not a second chance, and you know it, as it is not an improvement in the code of good practice what you have asked us, it was born as a placebo to avoid the solutions provided by the PAH and our group, and so it continues. However, they now recognize that the requirements of the Code of Good Practice exclude many persons and are excessive because of the requirements they establish and the expulsion to which they subject certain persons. Welcome to clarity, three years later! That's what we've been telling you for three years. Let me tell you one thing, Mr De Guindos: coming here today and your group to tell us that after three years of denying it, it is at least a bit cynical in political terms; three years during which you have allowed an average of 146 evictions to take place every day, and above come and boast of your code of good practice, 14,000 cases. Please, that is to see the glass very full, the glass says the following: they hide that the paid allowances have been granted only to 0.7 of the executed families, that the moratorium reaches only 8% of the desauciados and that the famous Social Housing Fund, with which Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría filled a press conference and political marquetin on a Friday, will never be forgotten, has reached only 0.4% of the families that have been left homeless. [[Applauds]] And you insist, you insist on that. We could have saved ourselves enough suffering, if not from all the world, from some families, and come you and with all the concession of the world say: we are going to improve the poverty threshold, we are going to rise from 12 to 14 Iprem, instead of 12 Iprem being 14 Iprem the poverty threshold. Do you know you've been freezing the Iprem for four years? Do you know that for you the poverty threshold is 7,455 euros a year? That is not the threshold of poverty, that is the threshold of non-life, of non-life. [[Applauds]] And so you put it to us, as an absolutely positive thing. True, you have finally accepted what we have put before you by all the groups in the House, that you no longer keep families at bay and postpone for two more years the launch of habitual housing to those who have been executed. With regard to ground clause, Mr De Guindos, can you tell us why you have lost the opportunity to incorporate into this law the Supreme Court's jurisprudence on the nullity of abusive ground clauses? Because what you do is this, you say that abusive ground clauses can not be applied to the solemn poor, to those who do not enter more than 7,400 euros, and you present it as an advance. Do you really believe what you're saying? And also not only that, but they put it not as a normative obligation, but in the code of good practice, which I remind you that it is voluntary, or above it is subject to the voluntariness of the banks. By the way, if you really want a second chance for those people, I suggest a move, ask the government to withdraw once and for all the appeal to the Constitutional Court against the Housing Act of Andalusia, because you neither give a second chance nor let others give it, neither eat nor let them eat. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to speak to Mr Catalá now but, of course, he is not here. He's not, he didn't think it was right to come here to defend his decree-law or even to listen to us. [[A Member: He's working]] Yeah, he's working. And the ones we're here are wandering around or what? Please don't be clumsy! A minister's primary responsibility is to come here and face the face, especially when he has to explain why he has been charging the court fees he has been defending for three years and why his Government has continued to argue that court fees did not prevent access to justice when they did. Why do you have such a classy concept of justice? Why have they denied it for three years and now they're pulling it out and doing it like nothing's going to happen, and the minister doesn't come and face it? [[Applauds]] What is worse, Minister Montoro should have come to explain where the 612 million you have collected from court fees are. I'll explain it to you: in Mr. Montoro's low funds. You have not been able to explain where that is and above you come up with this approach. Two questions. Why do they continue to charge court fees to small businesses? Since they don't explain the first thing, can they explain the second? How will the Government compensate citizens who have not been able to access justice for the economic cost of the fees during these years? The truth is that you have it easy, you can blame Mr Gallardón, who has it for everything that has happened to you from that point of view. Let me tell you that you applauded, as hooligans, this great injustice and this true chaff. You present Mr Gallardon as a monster but he is not a spontaneous politician or a loose verse; he is your political son, the son of a classist ideology and of young men who understands that justice is accessed if you have money, and if not. Now they have to rectify it and they don't explain it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with an important issue: the exemption from social security contributions. We are presented with the quota exemption as an incentive for indefinite employment to hire unemployed people - remember what I'm telling you - and forget that all experts recognize, and demonstrate experience, that this kind of policy has not created employment, that it has been tossing the money. Between 2002 and 2014, €34 billion has been earmarked to encourage indefinite recruitment. Can anyone tell me if there's been any positive results? The Toharia report of the previous legislature which makes it clear that that was tossing the money; that is called deadweight because all it does is replace one type of contract with another but never encourages employment, less the indefinite one. By the way - I do not say - you read what Mrs Bañez said in the debate of 8 March 2012 when she presented the labor reform; she said exactly that. To justify withdrawing the generalised bonuses and maintaining them only for certain types of contracts, he literally said that the generalised bonus was to throw away public money, and that it was essential to make good use of public resources. If it was three years ago, isn't it now? You're throwing away the money; you don't throw away yours, you throw away the pensioners' money because in case it was little this time there's no bonus. It is not SEPE who pays Social Security the 1.5 billion that is going to cost this; no, no, no. It is the pensioners who with their pensions will finance 1.5 billion, a gift to businesses, which will not be used to create jobs. [[Applauds]] It will not serve to create employment - you know - among other things because this has been demonstrated by the flat rate, which has cost Social Security EUR 1,260 million in a year in which the Reserve Fund has had to take over EUR 14 billion, and then they say that you have no money to improve pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also tell you that the exemption and the design you have made will not be used to allow indefinite recruitment, not even for the hiring of the unemployed. Have you realized that in your decree-law you allow such exemptions to benefit companies that hire people who are not stopped? You don't have to stand by to be hired with that exemption. With this, how can you present it as an incentive to employment? No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like that. Its regulation also opens the door to fraudulent use. I do not want to presume fraud in the use of that exemption but it is that you offer it on a tray. For example, they require a net increase in staff, but in relation to the previous 30 days; that is, dismissal in July and September, I re-employ. That is, it has to be a dismissal that has been declared judicially inappropriate, if it is not appropriate; in an economic dismissal one can adjust staff in July and in September hire with exemption. Do you know what you're doing with that? They are encouraging unlucky practices of social dumping between companies or fraud within companies of the same group, because neither is prevented; they are promoting a replacement effect of workers, the compensation of workers dismissed by the Social Security through these exemptions being paid. That's right, you give 1,500 million euros to companies in exchange for nothing, being scars with the unemployed. I would remind you that the Employment Reactivation Plan just approved by the Council of Ministers is estimated to involve, at best, EUR 179 million in 2015; compare you EUR 179 million for unemployed without any benefit with the 1,500 gifts for businesses. In relation to the peonadas, in the end you have accepted what was a cry in the agrarian world, but again your rectification is half-hearted and leaves many people out. The time has come to review agricultural subsidy policies at once. I suggest that we address, as I raised recently, the proposal for a guaranteed minimum income for citizenship, which our group tabled a few weeks ago and which also counted on the vote against the Group of the European People's Party and with a curious abstention that must still be explained to me. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Government and the Group of the European People's Party have failed to rectify this, but it is another deception; what you are presenting to us is not a second chance for insolvent people nor is it going to generate employment or solve the tragedy of agricultural unemployment. This is a second chance for the banks to wash their faces and you to save theirs. Let us hope that this time neither the manipulation nor the mass propaganda to which they have subjected us, nor its false purposes of amendment can make people forget the poverty, inequality, injustices and suffering they have caused with their policies for three years. Dignity seems to be incompatible with a People's Party government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the view of the Convergence i Unito Parliamentary Group on the validation of this royal decree, in which many issues are discussed and raised, basically three of which we attach great importance, such as the mechanism of the second opportunity, the reduction of the financial burden and other social measures. Our group believes that this royal decree is positive; we share most of the measures incorporated in it, but at the same time we think it is late. Before going into the detail of the considerations to the articulated, we would like to make some reflections on this. First of all, Minister, we believe that it is appropriate and urgent to adapt this royal decree to reality. What does this mean to adapt it to reality? That we consider this to be an excessively rigid, over-bureaucratic and over-technical royal decree, which has certainly been drawn up by senior officials of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Justice. Despite the fact that it can technically be outstanding, it is appropriate to air it, to adapt it to reality; it is appropriate that we, the parliamentary groups, be able to tread the street - the group I am talking about - and to be able to provide it with social content. In short, it is essential that we incorporate into this royal decree the social soul that this legislation needs to put us on the skin of all those people who have been ruined in the exercise of their responsibilities in the business, in good faith - I repeat again, in good faith -. Most of them are entrepreneurs, self-employed people who have been overindebted and the crisis has taken them in half; families who have lost their habitual homes or families who have endorsed the viability of the business or the purchase of a habitual home and who have been destroyed by the crisis. That is why if we do not adapt this law to reality today, they will be engaged all their lives to work in the submerged economy. We must therefore adapt this legislation too rigid; we must give it air, open the windows. You must listen to the parliamentary groups that we have very close contact with reality. You, Minister, would have to give us the good news today that this royal decree will treat it as a bill so that we can make this social content, this social soul, this legislative financial lung come true for all those families who have been subjected to a crisis and who are condemned for life to be in the submerged economy. Second consideration that we want to make. Convergence i Unió since the previous legislature, Minister, has put forward legislative proposals to implement measures to make viable a second chance for those who had failed in business and also for all those who were on the edge of the precipice, about to lose their usual homes. These are two proposals for law which the Socialist Party Government did not listen to at the time and which you at the end of this term - you have given us the reason for Convergence i Unió - in all those fundamental aspects in our opinion to address this situation and give you this financial lung. It is a second opportunity for more than 500,000 people, Minister - more than 500,000 people - who today are inevitably caught up in misery not for the next five or ten years but for their entire lives. There are recommendations from the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, which have vehemently urged the Government of the Spanish State to finally see the light of this second opportunity. Today it has arrived at the Congress of Deputies in a way I would say rigid, but we would have to make it more flexible and treat it as a bill. It is a legislation in which there are many hopes, especially because we must not forget that there are more than 500,000 people affected in Spain: entrepreneurs, self-employed people in good faith who have failed in their business, many families who have endorsed their children or grandchildren for the purchase of a regular home, who are also paying the consequences, apart from many people who could now be on the edge of the cliff. Perhaps if we are able to make this law more flexible - I repeat that it is interesting and we share its objectives - we would prevent these companies from going to permanent insolvency and at the same time many people from going to an unemployment situation. It is therefore worth our reflection, Minister; pay attention to this issue - I speak again of Convergence i Unió - to the proposals that we are going to make to them, because every time we have offered them to solve deep crisis situations in the end we have succeeded. Minister, I remember that at the end of the previous parliamentary term, when Spain was involved in an intervention by the European Union, we here raised the possibility of creating a bad bank, and they did not listen to us. In the investiture debate of this legislature we proposed the creation of a bad bank; finally they have done so, and this has probably been beneficial to safeguard the Spanish financial system. Let us now see in this legislature and with this law whether we are able - you have shown that you are - to be accomplices, to have complicity with the different parliamentary groups in order to give flexibility that can give positive results in the parliamentary negotiation. What are those aspects that we believe would have to be changed? Apart from eliminating rigidities, as I said earlier, we sincerely believe that mediation regarding the insolvency of natural persons who act as private consumers and who have mainly lost their habitual homes must be improved. Here, Minister, we are also going to make you a relevant, interesting proposal that we can give participation to all those autonomous communities that have proven experience in mediation issues, as is the case with Catalonia. There are likely to be other autonomous communities that have experience like ours, but since you offer the possibility of mediation to notaries, chambers of commerce, it would be worth it also to apply it - why not - to all those institutions that have proven experience in this situation. We must emphasize those aspects that refer to mediation in order to give absolute priority to all those natural persons who act as end consumers, since we would probably avoid many of them losing their habitual home or, if they were in a rental capacity, they might be forced to sleep outside of what is a habitual home. It is a good opportunity for you to take note of this situation of the insolvency of natural persons, which is an important novelty, and in the application of mediation to end consumers as natural persons in the matter of habitual housing. Another important issue, Minister, is that retroactivity needs to be improved; the law needs to clarify the rules sufficiently so that all those who are already immersed in this situation, some 500,000, can benefit from such legislation. There are a number of fundamental issues that the parliamentary group that supports the government would have to play with great complicity; for example, Minister - in this I demand your attention, because everything is relevant, but perhaps this issue is a little more - what treatment we are going to give to public creditors, who we believe should also be involved in the withdrawals that correspond to the unfulfilled debt. [[Finance and Social Security]] Why will a normal creditor have the possibility to lose the ability to collect a claim from a bona fide insolvent and Social Security and Finance will necessarily have to collect? This isn't fair. Why is the normal creditor, who is an entrepreneur, a family member, a self-employed person, going to lose a hundred percent of the credit he has granted to this creditor in good faith and not the Treasury and Social Security? This isn't fair, because they're not going to charge it either. It is here, Minister, where I tell you that you have to step forward, you have to step on the street, you have to know the reality in order to get to have a rule exactly the same for all creditors, whether a natural person or a company, I no longer talk to you about the banks but about the Public Finance and Social Security. Another important issue, Minister. The existence of a criminal procedure cannot paralyze a competition application procedure. I'll give you an example. A gentleman who has a mild alcoholemia problem and is immersed in legal proceedings cannot avail himself of a second chance law. Why? Let us resolve it, because it is a matter of common sense. Another issue is the requirements required and the threshold of the debts that the debtor must have met in order to access its exemption. They are rigid measures that would be worthwhile to make this law more flexible so that it is universal in nature for all persons in this situation. Another issue that you deal with in this royal decree is the exemption of 500 euros for two years. This is a positive step in the direction of what Convergence i Unió has always proposed; it is insufficient, as we believe that these measures should be accompanied by a clear increase in active policies aimed at relocating those who have been losing their jobs in recent years and ambitious training policies for those young people without jobs and with school failure. I'm going to finish, Minister. There is another issue that we attach great importance to, the modification of corporation tax for all those non-profit associations. Mr Minister, before the last tax reform, all those associations that did not reach 100,000 euros of income were exempt. [[cultural, sports, municipal, parents]] The government, as I have already told you, is locked up in a glass ministry, with great advisers and high-ranking officials, but they are all unaware of the reality; they do not think of anything else, Minister, but to say that now all associations are going to have to face up to the corporation tax. It has been armed - I was going to say a word, but I do not want to say it in the Chamber - a considerable mess in Spanish society as a whole. The complaints that have come to the Ministry of Finance for bullshit, for not knowing the reality, for not stepping on the street have been tremendous. Now you change it: 100,000 no - which was what was before, and established it by the People's Group at the request of Convergence and Union; that's why I tell you to listen to us, and surely things would be better -, it's going to be 50,000. Why 50,000 and not 100,000? [[Rumors]] In this regard, consider the situation of associations of parents, mothers, former pupils, schools, cultural or sports entities and return to the initial situation in which everyone was more or less satisfied. [[The Lord]] We will wait for the minister to clarify if he will allow this royal decree to be dealt with as a bill. Of course, if this is the case, we will vote in favour of waiting for you, in that bill to be debated in the Committee on Economic Affairs, to have the social soul that Convergence i Unió claims to give an airy way out to these more than 500,000 people in desperate condition, because so many of them have lost their homes. I do not want to be more catastrophic than Mr Coscubiela, who preceded me in speaking, but it is worth stressing that this is a delicate and urgent situation, in which we can put measures as proposed by this group in order to give it an optimal solution. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Mr Martínez-Pujalte has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the arguments put forward by the various groups, I am obliged to say at the forefront of this intervention, above all for my group to hear it, that today we are adopting a decree-law that will improve the quality of life of citizens. [[Applauds]] It is a very good decree-law, and I say it because sometimes arguments are given here and you can end up believing that what they say is true. Well, no, ladies, no. Colleagues of my parliamentary group, what is said is not true. We are faced with a decree-law that is very good at improving the economic situation and the quality of life of families. This decree-law will be passed here today because the economic history of the last three years is a success story. This decree-law will be approved because, if you are destroying 2,200 daily jobs from 2008 to 2011, we are creating 1,200 daily jobs in 2014. [[Applauds]] You can pass this decree-law because after years of suffering and recession, from 2008 to 2011, since the People's Party government took over the economy of this country we have moved on to a situation of growing and doing so very vigorously, more than any other country in the European Union. That's why we can pass this decree-law today. When it is said that the macroeconomic scenario does not reach the citizens, it must be said that this real decree-law that we validate today is a clear and compelling manifestation that when things are done well, when it grows, when the macroeconomic environment is good, well-being reaches the citizens because positive measures can be taken for them. When jobs are destroyed, when there is negative growth, there is no one who takes a positive step because it is not possible. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law is very good for families and citizens and can be approved because there is an economic situation that makes it possible; a positive economic situation as a result of the measures that this Government has been taking. It is a decree-law that is framed in the plan reforms that the Government of the People's Party is adopting and in the goal of bringing growth to the citizens. That's why we're going to validate it today. This decree-law indicates, as I said before, that we have had a success story in these three years. It is a story in which there is a goal: to grow, to create employment, to improve the economic situation in order to transfer it to the well-being of the citizens, to opportunities for the citizens. And that's also why we can say today that we don't want to leave anyone lying on the road. This represents this decree-law, because this decree-law is a very important structural reform, means modernizing article 1911 of the Civil Code, which we all study and which said that the debtor is responsible for the fulfilment of obligations with all present and future assets. What we are doing today is modernizing an article in the Civil Code. Mr. De la Rocha said we've lost three years. Well, we'll have lost a hundred and a half years, because this isn't 2011, but a hundred and a half years ago. [[Applauds]] What this Government is doing is modernizing the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is a responsible group. We understand that the economy, in order to function, needs credit, needs to have bank loans, needs to have non-bank financing and needs to have supplier financing. The economy, in order to function, from the beginning of time it needs credit and, therefore, any legal system has always wondered how debt collection is regulated and what is done with those who do not pay. That has been continuous, because there has to be a framework that makes the treatment paid more favourable than the non-paying one, a legal framework that promotes the culture of payment and prevents the culture of non-payment from taking precedence. What would we say to the millions of citizens who pay with sacrifice every month if not paying is the same as paying? But that does not mean that we do not have to modernise the structures so that those who cannot for reasons that arise, because they cannot actually face up to them, are given more opportunities, but without charging either the credit or the culture of payment. That's what a responsible government does, and that's what this decree-law does. Surely in the 21st century Article 1911 needs to be modernized, surely it does, and that is why we are doing it and that is why we are considering it, but we have always thought about what happens to those who do not pay. In the Roman Empire they were sold as slaves; in the Middle Ages there was a prison sentence for those who did not pay the debts; article 1911 of a century ago said that it was answered with all the present and future goods. Now we can move forward, modern society demands us to move forward, but the PSOE did not move forward from 2004 to 2011; the People's Party government, which has done so because it has managed to grow the economy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not only talking about a regulatory change of the future; it is called a second chance decree-law, but it is also a rescue decree-law that has been thrown away by the crisis. This we could perfectly call the decree-law of rescue to the people who have needed it, because it is not only that we change the regulations for the future, ladies and gentlemen, it is that with this decree-law the thousands and thousands of people are rescued, both individual entrepreneurs or self-employed who have no corporate form, as well as the natural persons and, Mr De la Rocha, also the legal persons to whom the banks demanded to endorse with their personal heritage, because it is not true that because a lord had a commercial society they did not ask for personal endorsements when he was going to ask for a credit. Well, all those thousands and thousands of people are also rescued by this decree-law. They are given an opportunity and they are told: if you have done everything you can to pay, if you have done everything you can to meet your payment commitments, if you have done everything you can and can't do for reasons you can, we let you have a second chance so that you are not immersed in ostracism because you have outstanding debts that would eat your salary, your pension or whatever. This is what this decree-law does. That is why we can be proud when we vote this decree-law, because we are rescuing thousands and thousands and thousands of people who have become trapped in the crisis. And it is done well because, first, an out-of-court system of payment is established, so that the courts do not collapse, so that the slowness of justice - I hope it is better - does not lead them to a longer situation. There is an effective, well, out-of-court system that can help thousands, but then there will also be a system in the courts of justice. It's going to rescue thousands and it's going to create a better future situation for them. Mr Minister, all the groups are calling for it to be treated as a bill, and our group would also agree, so that we can accept the modifications, improvements and suggestions that they want to make to us, on the understanding that the payment culture must be reconciled with the situations that have arisen. It is very easy to go up to this rostrum and say: I care for those who need it most. No, it's just that you have to take care of those who need it most and you have to take care of those who, month after month, are facing the payments with the effort, with the sweat of their forehead, with their daily work, they also have to take care of them. [[Applauds]] It is very easy to go up to the rostrum and say: I become a lawyer for all the cases in Spain. No, it is necessary to make, as my parliamentary group does, a lawyer for all the Spaniards, for those who need it and also for those who, with the effort, are paying because they can. [[Applauds]] We will accept amendments, but those that are well matched by not breaking the payment culture with the attention of the situations that have occurred. Can we move forward in dialogue? Of course, but from the basis that we have to agree that in Spain there are millions of people - and we all know cases - that every month they pay the receipts that reach the bank and that costs them an effort. We have to tell everyone that paying is better than not paying, but even those who are paying ask us that those who cannot pay their payments for reasons that have arisen and have many difficulties have to help them, and that is what this parliamentary group does. There we can find commonalities. Progress has been made in this legislature, there was a first text amending the Competition Law, there was a second text amending the Competition Law, the situation in the Entrepreneurs Act was also changed and today we are making a very important structural advance, but not because of a situation that occurred three years ago, but because of a situation that the People's Parliamentary Group has been able to correct for over a century. Titles II and III of this Decree-Law speak of bringing recovery to citizens, families, entrepreneurs, cutting court fees. It is progressing, ladies and gentlemen, because things are being done well, it is progressing because it is growing, and I will not tire of repeating it. Today we are taking positive measures for the citizens because there is a good time to do so, because it is growing and creating jobs. We're not gonna get tired of saying that, ladies and gentlemen. Other groups say this is advertising. No, what is not advertising is that every day we get up 1,200 jobs are created in Spain. [[Applauds]] That's not advertising. Nor is it to speak of any kind of inheritance to know that when the PSOE ruled between 2008 and 2011 2,200 were destroyed. Today we are working to improve the situation of citizens. President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go too far, but I want you to know clearly that we want to grow and that the economy is doing well to move it to the citizens. We want to grow up because we want citizens to live better. Nobody in this House thinks more about the specific people who get up and have trouble every day than the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] No one, ladies and gentlemen, no one. They cannot go up to the rostrum and one after another insult the People's Parliamentary Group and let me now say that we are all the same. No, who works for people and Spain is the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Rumours]] And if it turns you off, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u55	Wait a minute, Mr. Martinez-Pujalte. I'm asking for silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u56	We want to grow up so we don't leave anyone lying around. Here I see many who come to the rostrum saying that they have a lot of social sensitivity and are very progressive. They say: I don't wear a tie and, since I don't wear a tie, my social sensitivity is total. [[Laughter]] No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough to look in the mirror in the morning and say: how progressive I am, I'm going to accuse the PP of not sleeping on the street! Like they're sleeping on the street. It's not enough to look in the mirror and be filled with social sensitivity. Social sensitivity and progressiveness is to work, strive, change Spain and change laws every day with much effort and that this becomes growth and employment. That is what the People's Party Government and the Members of the People's Party have done. [[Applauds]] I'm a little tired now, ladies and gentlemen. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, but I am already very tired of those who come up to this rostrum, insult the Members of the People's Party and are so happy to say: no, man, we are friends, they were script things, but I am very modern and very progressive. No, no. Progressiveism, modernism and social sensitivity are work, effort, reforms and moving the country forward. That is what the People's Parliamentary Group has done, and I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have done it only for one purpose: for the sake of our country and for serving the citizens, because every day the Members of the People's Party and the Government rise up and think about each person, especially those who are having a bad time, and today they are better than when Zapatero sat there. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u57	Mr. Campos, I'm not calling you to order today because it's your birthday, but I beg you to be silent. [[Laughter]] Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have no intention of reopening the debate. I just want to thank all the comments, confirm that we are going to process the decree-law as a bill and that, as has happened in the previous decree-laws that have had to do with the insolvency law, we will be open to all contributions from the groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u59	Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u60	According to what I tabled on Tuesday and accepted the plenary, we will continue the debate on the whole of the bill amending the Hydrocarbons Sector Act 34/1998 of 7 October 1998 and regulating certain tax and non-tax measures in relation to the exploration, investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons. To introduce this bill, the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear on behalf of the Government to defend the bill amending the Hydrocarbons Sector Act, which also regulates certain tax and non-tax measures in relation to the exploration, investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I also appear to ask for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled by some groups, on the basis of the arguments I am going to put forward during the next presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a necessary and timely bill. It is a necessary bill because today the hydrocarbon sector has an important strength. There is a highly developed natural gas network throughout the country. Gas infrastructure is an opportunity for Spain to become a logistics centre for natural gas throughout Europe. There is now an important debate in Europe on the subject of energy as regards the European vulnerability to gas imports in particular. This problem is mainly due to the growing tensions in Ukraine. As you know, a good part of all the gas that is consumed in Europe comes from Russia and a good part of that gas that is imported from Russia comes through Ukraine. Well, with the underground storages in Spain, with the existing regasifiers and with the two pipelines coming from the Maghreb, Spain would today be in a position, if there were sufficient interconnections, to be able to supply the rest of Europe with up to 50% of all Russian gas going to Europe through Ukraine. It is not a gas that is necessary for Spain. Spain does not depend on Russian gas, Spain feeds on the gas coming from Algeria, about 50%, and also on the liquefied natural gas that, through Spanish regasifiers, reaches these plants. However, if there were sufficient interconnections, we could supply an important part of the gas that is available in Spain to other European countries. On this subject, I would like to highlight the summit that was held a few days ago in Madrid, convened by President Rajoy and under his leadership, attended by President Hollande, attended by Prime Minister Passos Coelho, attended by the President of the Juncker Commission, also attended by the President of the European Investment Bank, in which the so-called Madrid Declaration was signed to highlight the importance and need to set deadlines for both electricity and gas interconnections. Secondly, there is a high capillaryness of the retail distribution system of gas in Spain. There is high security of supply and we are at low risk of lack of supply for the reasons I have previously pointed out to you. There is a high diversity of origins of hydrocarbon imports. There is a network of more than 10,000 retail service stations. There is also a consumer protection system with a regulated price for butane candy. However, the time since the adoption of the Hydrocarbons Sector Act 1998 makes it necessary to amend it, as well as to regulate certain tax and non-tax measures, with the following objectives. Firstly, to increase the level of competition and transparency in the pricing system through the creation of an organised secondary market for natural gas. Secondly, it is intended to combine the promotion of hydrocarbon exploration and production activities with compensation to citizens and public administrations for the possible effects that may arise from potential negative externalities. Thirdly, the aim of this bill is to boost competition in the hydrocarbon sector and reduce fraud with particular attention to the fuel market. Fourthly, ensuring greater consumer protection by imposing supply obligations on traders. Fifthly, reducing costs to consumers by liberalising inspections of gas reception facilities, which may also be carried out as soon as this bill is passed and becomes law by authorized installers. Finally, this bill also seeks to adapt the sanctions and infringements regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you at first that this is not just a necessary bill, it is also a timely bill because it introduces more competition, it means reducing energy dependence and it also means combating fraud. To this end an organized gas market is created, with physical delivery of natural gas - it is a voluntary market - guaranteeing the principles of transparency, competition and also independence. All this will facilitate a much more competitive price formation process and that these prices can be efficient market signals. Secondly, it seeks to combine the promotion of hydrocarbon exploration and production activities with the compensation of possible negative externalities to citizens and public administrations. Thirdly, the bill also sets out measures to combat fraud. With the adoption of this draft law, oil operators may be temporarily disqualified during the investigation of criminal proceedings for tax fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces clear improvements in the liquid hydrocarbons sector, in the petroleum liquefied gases sector and also in the natural gas sector. The bill sets out obligations for the supply of liquefied bulk oil gases to retail traders. Secondly, measures are laid down in relation to the minimum security of supply, without logically undermining security of supply, and give traders greater flexibility and lower costs. I would like to refer to the main developments introduced by this bill. New tax and non-tax figures are created and created to increase competition and transparency in price formation through the creation of the organised gas market with physical delivery. Tax measures are laid down for income from hydrocarbon deposits which can also be reversed throughout society. Liberalization and competition in the automotive fuel sector is intensified and the regime of infringements and sanctions is updated. Creation of the organised gas market. It will be a market in which the procurement of gas will be carried out anonymously, on a voluntary basis, in addition in any case to the existing bilateral options. There will be a balance-sheet market for traders to adjust their portfolios. With regard to short-term procurement, it shall cover at least until the month following the day on which the operation is carried out. The market operator shall be appointed by establishing its functions. Shareholdings will be present, the market operator himself, the technical manager of the system, agents of the energy sector and agents of the financial system. Their remuneration is also fixed. Finally, a market is created at Spanish level, but the creation of a single market area between Spain and Portugal is envisaged by international agreement to be similar to what is happening with the electricity market. As far as tax and non-tax measures are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the tax on the extraction value of gas, oil and condensates is created, which is a tax on the value of production. The tax rates shall be set on the basis of the level of production, progressively in any case, and shall compute all the associated extraction fields. In relation to the surface canon, which already exists, this canon is modified to adapt it to the current structure of any tribute and the quantities are updated to the current reality. Two new scales are also introduced for borehole drilling and seismic data acquisition. As regards payments to owners, 1 % of the value of the production of a site to be distributed among owners of the abovementioned land shall be fixed. With regard to natural gas, it is possible for any qualified natural gas installer to be able to carry out the inspection of the installations. Competition is thus encouraged, as only distributors could currently carry out inspections. The entry of new traders is encouraged through the mutual recognition of licences to market natural gas with countries that have a prior agreement. Measures are laid down in relation to minimum security stocks without undermining security of supply and which allow traders to be more flexible but also at a lower cost. It finally distinguishes between strategic reserves, which must be stored by Cores at all times, and operational reserves that will be stored by market operators. In the case of liquefied petroleum gases, cost efficiency means that there is no duplication of facilities for the distribution of gaseous fuels by channelling between liquefied petroleum gases and natural gas mainly. At the same time, liquefied petroleum gas wholesalers are required to provide all consumers who so request, provided that they are in their own province of operation, with the information they are required to do so. In the case of fuels, operators of petroleum products may be temporarily disqualified during the investigation of the sanctioning dossiers for tax fraud. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill that introduces amendments - as I said at the beginning - that are necessary and also appropriate, amendments to the Hydrocarbons Sector Act. The amendments introduced affect, as has been seen, liquefied petroleum gases, affect oil operators, affect liquefied petroleum gas packaged, piped and bulk, affect the corporation of strategic reserves of petroleum products, affect the gas market and also affect oil exploration, research and exploitation activities. The bill therefore introduces more competition in the sector. It is true that various measures have already been taken during this legislature to increase competition in the sector, and such measures, which have already been taken in 2013, have been noted in terms of increased competition within the service station sector. I would like to remind you that the bulk of the more than 300 new service stations that have been set up in Spain over the last eighteen months, slightly more than 90%, are independent stations. However, the Government considers that there is still room for further action in the direction of increasing this competition and moving it more clearly to consumer fuel prices. Therefore, I ask the various groups that have proposed them to withdraw the amendments to the whole of this bill, it is a necessary draft, it is a timely draft. Alternatively, I would like to ask the parliamentary groups to contribute to the improvement of this bill, which we have tabled through partial amendments that go in the direction of the general interest of consumers. The Government looks forward to any kind of proposal that improves the text and is aimed, for example, at further liberalisation of the fuel sector in the retail sector, or at amendments that limit the share of wholesale operators in the fuel market. More competition is needed, so such amendments will be more than welcome. We will look very carefully at the proposals we are being made to make it easier to open new stations; the more stations there will be more competition and that is good for consumers because it has a translation into prices. Like the amendments that will improve the bill in all matters relating to obligations to improve information on sales volume, sales prices to the public, the origin of the fuel sold, wholesalers who are bought information on exclusive supply contracts. The creation of an organised gas market is a long-awaited and desired novelty on the part of operators and consumers; this reform has long been expected. Last year the reform of the systems for the remuneration of gas infrastructure, both of regasifiers, of underground storage and of pipelines, was carried out, and now the task is to reform the gas market in order to create an organized market. All proposals for improvement made in this draft law by the various parliamentary groups will be analysed with great attention by the Government as long as the financing, operation and liquidity of this gas market improves. Finally, I want to say that Spain is not a country that is left with energy resources. We need to strengthen our energy security, we need to strengthen the line of what is laid down in the national security strategy. There is not a single country in the world that refuses to know what energy resources it has; neither the United States of America, nor Mexico, nor Venezuela, nor Ecuador, nor Brazil, nor Bolivia, nor the United Kingdom, nor Norway, nor Italy, nor China, nor Russia... No country in the world. It is an obligation of any responsible government, logically, to do so from the point of view of investigations into conventional resources as well as non-conventional resources. However, the Government considers that, in parallel with these investigative tasks and in the case of exploration and exploitation, society needs to obtain a revenue from this activity; the entire society and also landowners where this type of activity takes place. Society and landowners are entitled to compensation in relation to potential negative externalities arising from this type of activity. That is why this bill provides for tax and non-tax measures to which I referred in advance; those measures are those included in this bill. Therefore, I reiterate my request to the various groups that have tabled amendments in their entirety to withdraw them, inviting them to submit partial amendments in the direction of improving the text of the bill in line with the defence of the general interest, which is the interest the Government is defending. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. As the amendments in their entirety seem to remain, we shall start with the amendments of the Joint Group. All the members of the Joint Group, those who have amendments and those who do not, will now be taking the floor. We started with Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u63	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today amending Law 34/1998 on the Hydrocarbons Sector has, in our view, almost one main objective: to facilitate the impulse of fracking or hydraulic fracture and the prospecting of gas and oil. In fact, in the very explanatory statement of the draft law, the alleged benefits of these activities, which continue to be linked to an energy model dominated by fossil energies to such an extent that the Ombudsman's 2014 memory, where it is recommended to assess the health risks associated with these practices, has been thrown directly into the trash, as has been done with the Ombudsman's own suggestion to the Ministry of the Environment to abandon its opacity and to stop censoring the report of the Geological and Mineral Institute, which was drafted more than a year ago on the risks of fracking. The report contained environmental recommendations regarding preventive and corrective measures to be considered in projects related to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons by fracking, a report that has been rejected at the root by the companies that make up Aciep, the Association of Hydrocarbon Production Companies, which pressured the ministries involved, which ended up returning the report to eliminate or soften the contents that the promoters of fracking in the State considered to be evidence of the risks of the hydraulic fracture to the environment in the conduct of deep drilling, injection of water and additives, water pollution, emission of pollutants to the atmosphere and in induced seismicity. This report, which was prepared by top-level technicians of a public body, has been censored inadmissible and shamefully by the Government with the clear aim of protecting and benefiting private speculative interests at the expense of the general interest. The Government has again yielded to the pressures of companies, which aim to consolidate the more than seventy existing hydrocarbon exploration permits and so many other investigations still to be authorized. The blackmail, as always, is based on supposed multi-million dollar investments and the creation of jobs that are rarely materialised and in return the Administration looks elsewhere to rigorously control the environmental standards required for these projects. Data in this report that the ministry believes should not be known include, for example, evidence that in countries such as the United States, South Africa or Canada, where fracking has been used for years, there have been numerous cases of seismicity induced by hydraulic fracture wells, pollution of wells and springs, or discharges into the atmosphere of carcinogen pollutants. The aim is clearly to silence the major social opposition to these techniques, and for this reason the Government does not hesitate to introduce a new tax on the value of the extraction of gas, oil and condensates; a tax which would benefit the autonomous communities and municipalities, but which is only imposed on the production of hydrocarbons and would therefore only be effective once the companies start the extraction projects. This tax would theoretically compensate the autonomous communities, some of which, by the way, have been appealed by the Government and declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court their own laws in this area; another demonstration of the exacerbated centralism of this Government and of the lack of respect for autonomous laws. On the other hand, the draft law does not include a single line of action on the petrol market and introduce measures to change the oligopoly situation of oil companies in the current market and in the dynamics of price pacts between them. Despite the various reports of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which warn against the high margins of oil companies and the slow pace with which petrol is falling when oil barrel prices are falling sharply, the Government misses this opportunity to attack and therefore try to solve this problem. Again, the interests of the big companies are yielded, and no matter how much the Minister De Guindos makes grandiose statements urging them to devote the drop in crude oil to reducing the prices of gasoline and not to increasing its margins, when one has the opportunity, as in this case with this bill, to let go of time and deaf ears to the reports of the CNMC, which again and again observe the exaggerated margins of the oil companies and their practices of pacts and abuse of power. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this bill perpetuates an unsustainable energy model focused on fossil fuels and on the big business that multinational oil and gas companies do in the energy sector, which, moreover, in recent years has slowed down the development of renewable energies by abolishing premiums. An energy model that we have criticized many times, which increases energy dependence, which centralizes competences and prevents the autonomous communities from designing their own energy development; an irresponsible model that drives the use of aggressive techniques that are already being questioned, even prohibiting, in other countries of our environment but that here, in this State and with this Government, they are being promoted without taking into account their risks to the environment, to the health of people and even to the economy of the areas where they are carried out. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety and the request that this bill be returned to the Government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. I now give the floor to Mrs Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u65	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, omitting a legal act for profit and with the intention of causing property damage is called - at least in my small country - blackmailing. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal to compensate economically the areas affected by oil projects in order to facilitate their broad development throughout the Spanish geography demonstrates an absolute deafness to the climate reality and not only that, but also shows a lack of respect for the democratic will of the citizens, of the affected territories. They have heard us say it not once, not two, not three, not twenty, but many times, fracking, the territory and its people, does not like much or little. The social response, Minister, to this practice - which consists, in case someone has forgotten, in perforating the soil to inject under pressure a mixture of water, sand and chemicals that break the rock releasing methane gas - is increasingly and at the same time more organized. They know - or should know just as much as we do - that the stake in hydraulic fracturing is a very serious mistake from a number of perspectives; first of all, from an energy perspective, not only energy but also from an economic, ecological and obviously also strategic perspective. The proposal of this bill provides that part of the fees collected through fossil fuel farms are directly paid in the municipalities and in the autonomous communities where they are produced. I have to say that it is a shame in capitals because it is more than regrettable, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the government of Mariano Rajoy thus intends to buy, with all the letters, a citizen opposition that has proved to be tremendous and rabidly overwhelming and forceful against marine prospections and fracking prospections. It's a slum blackmail. A citizen rejection by municipalities and autonomous communities in the form - in a thousand forms of fact - for example, of territorial prohibitions with plans of moratorium or through the organization of citizen consultations that allow visibility of the popular voice. All this has been done by the towns and cities a priori affected. In fact, this action taken by the Executive is in addition to those already taken months ago that also attack democracy, directly attack democracy, such as preventing, for example, consultations or turning the decisions on fracking into state competition directly, when they previously did not have it, in order to bypass, as always, the autonomous communities. Let me tell you something that a priori may seem normal but that maybe someone doesn't know or doesn't know: money doesn't buy everything. Money does not pay for the abysmal risks of fracking over the economy and the natural environment; money cannot buy the silence and tranquility of a people and its people either. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not enough money in the world to sell large green spaces and turn them into mere minefields of wells. It's over, Mr. President. Dignity - important - and territory - also very important - have no price, ladies and gentlemen, and even less to perpetuate the absurd dependence on fossil fuels. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, who do you work for? [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] I don't think so. I will explain to you the reasons for voting no to this bill. First, it nullifies the power of the local government to avoid the facilities of service stations regardless of local land use, in accordance with the Municipal Urbanisation Plan, and favours the installation of unattended service stations, i.e., without personnel; that is working to create employment. Secondly, compliance with the safety and environmental protection measures will be satisfied by a responsible statement from the wholesaler, who in turn will require the retailer to comply with future regulatory development. Third, measurement and control instruments are not subject to accredited metrological verification, despite the fact that they are based on their measurements the collection of taxes and subsidies to the local government and the owners of the perforated space. Abundo; it's easy, it puts a highway to fracking, all are advantages. Before, with Mr De Guindos, facilities for banks and now facilities for multinationals, which will be taken advantage of. Remember, Minister, the Ossa de Montiel earthquake a few days ago was in a territory where you want to frack. I think we haven't learned or they don't learn from the fiasco of the Castor project. Fifthly, the draft law reform limits the future development of both the order and the sector-specific regulation to officially recognizing the presumption of conformity arising from the responsible declaration of the majority operator. Sixthly, it continues to bet on dirty energies, while they have sunk into renewables and sunk into self-consumption. That is not what they do in other countries that you have quoted in this very rostrum. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Also by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are again witnessing a round of nutcrackers in favour of promoting so-called dirty energies, the production of energy through fossil fuels. From our point of view, what should have been done, Minister, with this hydrocarbon bill is to have boosted renewable energies, on which we canary nationalists have to remind you that, being the possible paradise of renewables, the penetration rate is 6%. But what we are here with is what seems to be a more service to those who are dedicated to fossil fuels and to those who are dedicated to using fracking, despite the fact that there are a lot of reports against it. I have not been able to read a single word in favour of this technique. As it also turns out that this bill comes here without the report of the regulators, the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the Council of State - let alone the regulatory bodies -, it places an element of suspicion on this whole issue that you must understand. By the way, we could have already talked about incentives - although we do not believe them as they are here - before Repsol was dedicated to drilling in the Canary Islands. I have to remind you that they have not been suspended from their permits since the wind has come out in the stern and all sails out of the canary waters. We cannot accept that in this case the Canary Islands should again be excluded from a possible incentive. If, in addition to what we had to endure, there had been oil, the Canary Islands, with this bill, would not have received an incentive. You know why? For according to you the sea that surrounds the Canary Islands is not part of its territory. This has to be corrected. We are confident that at least we will have the opportunity for you to support some of the partial amendments that we will put forward in due course. I would like to announce that the Canarian nationalists will support all the amendments that have been tabled in their entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. An offence, Minister, this bill designed to make us swallow fracking, a technique that is increasingly prohibited in more countries because of its risks, is a real offence. It is an offence, first, against common sense, because you are not content with lowering the alternative, renewables, and when you are trying to reduce energy dependence around the world, you are still engaged in a failed model, totally dependent on fossil fuels and, second, against scientific evidence, which is increasingly alert to its very serious effects on health and the environment. Possible negative externalities, you say. Nice euphemism. Minister, would you like to live near those wells where millions of litres of water are injected mixed with radioactive chemical toxics? No, right? Well, neither did Amaiur. It is a tremendous irresponsibility to the current climate and energy emergency. If the successive climate summits that you adopt insist that most fossil reserves should remain under the ground to prevent catastrophic climate change, what are you going to these conferences if you then do the opposite? It is also an offence to its own laws, to democracy, a more re-centralizing step, because the majority response of the population, alarmed by this technique, and the will and the right of people and peoples who say loud and clear no to fracking, are passed through the arch of triumph. With the complicity of the Constitutional Court they overthrow legitimate decisions of parliaments, such as the law of Nafarroa that prohibited francking, and grant white letter to the actions of entrepreneurs and autonomous governments without scruples to continue with their speculative, backward and irrational economy, and above all the worst of this law is that they want to deceive us with the tocochocho - paid by cleavage among all, of course - of the compensations. This law is nothing more than an attempt to buy the will and silence of local governments, affected and affected and society in general, but listen well, not all the money in the world can afford this nonsense. Euskal Herria is moving towards a clean, just and democratic model, moving towards energy independence and sovereignty and will certainly not accept impositions like this law. [[The honourable Member concludes her speech in Basque]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Ariztegui. For the Plural Left Group, Mrs Ortiz has the floor to present her amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a new regulatory change in the energy sector. We've had dozens of them throughout the legislatures. This time it is another amendment of the hydrocarbon law and an attempt, Minister - let us say so - to wash one's face in the face of the harmful decisions made on the exploitation of hydrocarbons against the territory, the population and, worse, against the interests of the country. Basically, in this draft we find three issues in the measures proposed. On the one hand, the demands on civil and administrative liability to operators; on the other hand, the creation of a new secondary gas market and, finally - the most obscene, surely, of this bill - compensating for its total and absolute surrender to the needs of extractive companies with economic compensation to the territory. You'll call it taxes, but we'd call it bribery. Thus, they try to convince with money those who no longer have real reasons or social benefits to convince those in the territory. Let's get to the bottom of it. Why do we oppose this bill from Initiative per Catalunya Verds-Esquerra Unida i Alternativa? Basically - I think we can say at this stage of the legislature - because we have diametrically opposite energy models. I would say more, you have neither model nor planning because you act according to the demand of the sectors. They take into account their needs and the opportunities of the country, but do not have planning. Here we go, at a time of regulatory change in the energy sector according to the demands. The reasons for our opposition are, first of all - this is an issue that we should bear in mind, even if you don't even look at it when we talk about energy - that this bill is climatically irresponsible. It is a bet decided by oil and gas as a source of energy. The Government, as it has demonstrated with all the decisions already taken, consolidates an old, inefficient and irresponsible energy model that is deeply dependent on fossil fuels. We will not tire of telling you that you govern from shortsightedness and shortsightedness, with a deep irresponsibility to the climate and energy crisis in which we find ourselves. We have told you repeatedly and talked to you in every law of scientific studies. You certainly only look at the studies of Shale Gas or Repsol, but we talk to you about the studies of the International Energy Agency, the London School, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which precisely says that we should leave a third of the oil reserves and half of the gas reserves under the ground, intact, in the next forty years if we want to halve the chances of increasing the temperature two degrees, that is, if we want to avoid the disaster. These studies have been presented and explained repeatedly, but, of course, when a multinational comes with its graphics and its mermaid songs, neither the climate nor future generations nor the health of the present ones worry them. Now, at least, they don't deny climate change, but with its facts they really act like it doesn't exist. A second reason is not just climate but environmentally unacceptable. You insist on this environmental irresponsibility to bet on the extraction of hydrocarbons in our country at the cost of everything; in a territory like Spain, with a natural wealth, the most biodiverse in Europe, and with a need to preserve the quality of our aquifers and the subsoil, a territory with important geological risks with the existing failures. All we need to do is see recent examples we've had. You definitely bet on fracking, a polluting and wasteful system of natural resources, and we've had a lot of opportunity to talk about fracking and its model. To this end, this law is a perverse system of buying wills in the territory as an instrument to annihilate the resistance of the population to the destruction of prospecting and fracking. While they have sunk the investment in renewables - that has destroyed thousands and thousands of jobs - and put tolls on self-consumption, even if it is due to administrative silence only under threat, here they want to overcome the resistance to the exploitation of hydrocarbons and establish a compensation to the owners of the land on which the exploitation of the deposits is located according to the value of the annual production. You, who have modified to your liking the areas of protected areas according to Repsol's interests, who sell the natural heritage and put at risk the biodiversity of our country in exchange for El Dorado's promises to the fracking lobbies, that's what you do now, a tax to buy wills. Minister, they are really a government that is a steward of multinationals. The energy balance is clear. Frankly, it seems, given our country's trajectory with the rotating doors in the energy sector, that you use the BOE as citizens use the Linkedin, that is, to see where we can put ourselves in exchange for this regulation, and in fact, we already have the first places in the new operators with Members who were talking about energy here before. It is unworthy and regrettable, especially because what we put at risk is a lot. [[The lady]] The measure now proposed by the Executive is in addition to other measures already taken during these months that undermine democracy, such as preventing consultations or denouncing autonomous laws against fracking before the Constitutional Court. We are surprised that Convergence i Unió has not tabled an amendment to the whole when there is a decided bet in this law. Continuing to search for fossil fuels through fracking techniques and deep-sea prospecting is to engage in an exhausted model that puts at risk the fauna, flora and important economic sectors in our country such as fishing or tourism itself. But we also have more reasons, not just environmental or climate; this law also makes us more economically vulnerable and dependent on the outside. Spain has a very important problem of energy dependence and you yourself raised it: about 80%, 30 points higher than the rest of the European Union. That's a lot and it's ruining our productive development, besides making us geopolitically vulnerable, and this bill doesn't solve it. The gas we're going to find under the ground in Spain is not going to compensate for that energy balance. Spain is not a country rich in oil or gas, no matter how much they are ingrained, and what you are designing only contributes to increasing imports of Algerian gas to sell them to Europe. Instead of a strong bet on clean and renewable autonomous energy that increases our energy sovereignty and makes us competitive, you go the opposite way. The bill facilitates the achievement of a natural gas hub; a hub in Spain with which you intend to replace Ukraine with Algeria, but this does not respond to the interests of citizens, responds to the needs of our companies that have purchased gas and have to sell their surplus. Boosting more energy dependence is more typical of a speculative, irrational and backward economy when the whole world is trying to go in the opposite direction. During 2014 the Spanish bill for energy imports was 38,071 million euros, 29,000 of oil and 8,200 of gas. That's not going to make up for either fracking or new prospecting. If this figure has decreased, it is due to other issues. We are also against this because it is a socially unfair bill, as it prioritizes the security of hydrocarbon oligopoly investments over consumer interests. That is what this law pursues because there are many things, it is true, that we must change in the hydrocarbon sector, but the proposals you make are based on the same mistakes as in the electricity market. Of course it can be a certain improvement for some industrial consumers to have some reference market, but if we settle this market in the same mistakes we will not solve anything. What they do is create a secondary gas market; a market that they propose to cost consumers - we already started wrong in that design - and that will result in increased gas receipt. An operator is appointed for the entire Peninsula trying to emulate a market in the image and likeness of the electric market. Being aware my group that the current model of purchase to future take or pay does not work and ensures a behavior no longer oligopolistic but mafia, repeating the errors of the electric market is not the solution. As a result we will have a gas market controlled by a small group of companies that will end up setting prices and pushing governments to make decisions against the general interest. In fact, its design does not require it firmly, as the European directive does. Indeed, the Energy Union document when it comes to creating gas markets says that they are based on transparency and the division of functions of activities, which we do not have. It is socially unfair because you do not provide for any measure of protection for domestic consumers, beyond the creation of infrastructure to guarantee supply, but not in the face of supply cuts or energy poverty. They continue to legislate outside of these needs and the social emergency situation, without guaranteeing basic supplies or considering service as a public good. We criticize the project because they are kept in opacity and bet on maintaining that opacity and shielding in gas supply contracts. How are they going to create a market that should give reference prices if we continue not to know the content of these contracts in the future? That is what the Energy Union says textually when it talks about Europe's energy future. What payment commitments and amounts are committed? If we don't know the contracts, how can we pretend to have a functioning market? In fact, although we do not share part of the recent communication from the European Commission, that does make it clear. It criticizes this opacity, inflexibility and inability to renegotiate before agreements between States. In this Spain is the clear bad example, mortgaged in the future for not having planned well energetically and hearing only the companies, creating a gas bubble that we all now pay, and that law is part of that payment. You want to boost gas exports from Spain, from the same gas we import from Algeria, something that will benefit gas operators but not Spanish citizens. In addition, this style of doing is the repetition of the Castor model: in the end, the law prioritizes the security of hydrocarbon oligopoly investments over the interests of consumers. That is what the People's Party in Europe does. Precisely this week, a report on the investments of the European Investment Bank was voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament, where my group in Europe demanded that compensation be set aside for ACS and that citizens should not be paid. That report has been unanimously supported, but precisely what corresponds to the Castor warehouse, that of cancelling the compensation to Florentino Pérez, that the People's Party did not support it. So, before that decree, which is the responsibility of the PSOE, do not hesitate to vote in Europe to guarantee that compensation of 4.3 billion that we will pay the entire citizenry on the gas bill. There you are always next to the multinationals. This law is imbued with the same philosophy: for companies, everything to their measure and without risks. That is not liberalism; socialism for the rich and feudalism for the poor. Sixthly, we do not share their culture of insecurity. We see it in the infinite confidence that companies will already do well and that those who come to exploit the subsoil will also do so. Limited or irritating civil liability is not going to be of interest to them to sharpen the territory. As has been seen in the case of Repsol in the Canary Islands or ACS in Castor and Enresa in Villar de Cañas, civil liability and security in the face of environmental, natural or seismic risks is ridiculous. The culture of security is limited to the fact that when problems arise we will see how we solve them and always end up paying them all. Another regrettable issue that I do not wish to mention before I conclude is that the Government, before this law which is harmful, has not, or has not dared to, referred the draft to the National Market and Competition Commission for an opinion which, although not binding, is mandatory. They also did not want to refer it to the Council of State or the Hydrocarbon Advisory Council. It was worrying to note that the Government itself was failing to comply with laws in order not to listen to the proposals of the regulatory agencies. This is how we have these results, dovetails made from our backs to the citizens and the actors involved, in a sector of public interest such as energy, that affects public goods such as resources and our natural heritage and that mortgages our economy and sovereignty. Laws made running and hasten, in an advertising way, to be forgiven your misconceptions, Minister. That's why they won't find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ortiz. For the Socialist Group, Mr Segura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will start with the last part of your speech, because you are a person who has a lot of memory. You remember that throughout this legislature - it is a matter of making a synthesis of what has happened in the field of energy policy - you have brought us here for your plenary validation eleven royal decree-laws in the field of energy. We have requested its further processing in the form of a bill and in most cases, following your instructions, we have been voted against. Remember, for example, the Tax Measures for Energy Sustainability Act. We have tabled fifty-five amendments and not one has been approved. It will also recall the Law on Extrapenisular Energy Systems. We tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text and we were not approved. We then tabled 19 amendments in the Commission procedure, and we were not approved by a single one. You also remember the Electricity Act, a law that occupied two hundred pages in the State Official Gazette. We have tabled more than a hundred partial amendments and not a single one has been adopted. It will even recall the Metrology Act, which was of a scientific and technological nature and had to be adopted unanimously. In the course of the Commission's proceedings, a very famous amendment was tabled to reduce the powers with regard to the distribution of tolls to quantification and methodology, which is a competence of the National Commission on Markets and Competition and previously of the National Energy Commission. For what? To accumulate greater power and satisfy certain political covenants. The same thing is going to happen today. It does not invite us to withdraw the amendment as a whole, because we have maintained a consistent attitude throughout this Parliament. Minister, I'm still invoking your memory. You will remember perfectly that in mid-2012 you already brought a royal decree-law amending the Hydrocarbons Act. This was Royal Decree-Law 13/2012 transposing directives on internal markets in electricity and gas and on electronic communications, and taking measures to correct deviations due to mismatches between the costs and revenues of the electricity and gas sectors. It was not dealt with in the form of a bill and, consequently, we could not insert the spoon - let us say metaphorically - to improve that royal decree. You will also remember in the middle of last year - what a good memory you have! I realize that I am helping you to remember and remember is to live again without a doubt - the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, of 4 July - was my birthday and I remember it this way, as today has also congratulated a Member for his birthday - of adopting urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency, which modified no more than twenty laws. It is precisely through the amendment of 20 laws that Title III was devoted to urgent energy measures with four broad chapters devoted to liquefied petroleum gases, to the economic sustainability of the natural gas system, to measures in the fields of hydrocarbons and mines and to energy efficiency measures, respectively. This Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, which was very famous, under pressure from opposition groups, was processed at the end of August in the form of a bill, was passed with full legislative competence in the Commission and the Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled forty-two amendments, of which not one was approved. He now asks us to withdraw this amendment as a whole. So far we have not had any details of understanding on the part of the Government, nor on the part of the parliamentary group that essentially supports the Government, although it is other groups that also support it in exchange for certain specific considerations, as has been demonstrated over these three and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill is one of the most complex technological, technical and legal bills I recall in this Parliament. There is talk of amending Law 34/1998, a law of more than 140 articles, more than 25 additional and transitional provisions; that is to say, the whole hydrocarbon sector, which you have amended twice in this legislature; you have renamed it, twisted it and now come with a third. We have not supported it in this Parliament, nor has this one. However, I also think it is important to remind you, Minister, that this request for goodwill has not been noticed at certain times when this parliamentary group has had a good will to cooperate. I have here a proposal for a law to improve effective competition in the market for the distribution of automotive fuels. It may not have come to their hands, but this bill sought to improve competition; it intended to be at the service of citizens; the number of service stations to be increased; the possibility of changing ownership to be better fluidized; prices to be reduced; and competition to be increased. This proposal for a law a year and a half ago was defended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in plenary and was not allowed to proceed. Now, about fifteen to twenty days ago, we've worked out another equivalent. It has been registered and, in the inexorable procedure in the Commission within fifteen or twenty days, with full legislative competence, we are going to introduce six, seven or, probably, a higher number of amendments that come out of our proposal for a law. You send this bill with a complexity that is not genuinely at the service of the citizen. My group would like to have a future debate on gas. We are very clear that gas is coming to the Iberian peninsula from almost a dozen countries; not only through two pipelines, two pipes coming from Algeria. No, no; it is transported around the world by gas, chemical, specialized, 300,000, 350,000 or 380,000 tons; and that the Post-Panamax and Post-Suez ships, which are ships of a technology and of great characteristics, will certainly bring a lot of gas to the Peninsula. The ports where the regasification plants are - Barcelona was pioneer in 1969 mounting the first regasification plant with exceptional technology - are a place of arrival and distribution also by ships. We are convinced - we have been defending it in various national and international forums, scientists and forums of a political nature - that the development of renewables in Europe is going to require the support of the gas sector, which is undoubtedly very small in terms of greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. Moreover, we cannot forget that maritime transport is being transformed around the world. The maritime transport of goods in the globe is 90%. The transport of goods from one point to another is by sea. And in ships with propulsion systems, the one that moves the propeller, the one that generates electrical energy inside the ship is consuming fuel-oil, diesel, heavy oils and other highly polluting products. Well, they're going to be replaced by liquefied natural gas. On the Spanish coast, on Algeciras, on the peninsulal coast fundamentally - and I hope that in the Canary Islands and, of course, on the island of Tenerife and on the island of Gran Canaria soon, and of this I am convinced because I have already been a veteran parliamentarian for more than twenty years defending these projects - I hope that we will have enough liquefaction plants with the appropriate technology, in order to produce the redistribution of liquefied natural gas and to be able to supply it to Baltic countries, for example, Poland, which has just built a regasification plant and is going to build another one and is not going to be inexorably conditioned by gas-driving by land by buried pipelines but will go essentially by sea. That is one of the great futures of this country. Minister, of course, the draft law introduces amendments affecting the natural gas sector, liquefied petroleum, butane and propane gases, liquid hydrocarbons, diesel, petrol, kerosene, fuel oil, etc., and the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons for natural gas, for oil and condensates. This chapter would have to be discussed in a Mining Act! The current Mining Act is from 1972 and you have not dared to modify it, you have made a project, but you have withdrawn it and are very powerful areas of competence and on this we must dialogue with the autonomous communities. This bill certainly introduces a number of amendments that are patchy in a fossilized law over time, Law 34/1998. A new bill is needed. We have not been given time to submit an amendment to the whole with an alternative text because you are well aware that from the opposition we sometimes do not have enough time and means to draft the alternative text that this House would deserve. Of course, I would like to enable the Corporation to make strategic reserves of petroleum products and make certain modifications, for which I would love to have time to analyse them one by one, but we will not. In this last part of my speech on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Minister, I would like to make it very clear, and of course it will be reflected in the 'Diary of Sessions', which in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that in the gas sector the bill is making progress towards legislation which is clearly insufficient and lacking a comprehensive approach to a modern energy strategy which Spain, which has had, which the United Kingdom has and Germany has had, must have. Consequently, I also take the liberty, Minister, of making a small synthesis of five key points on which we base our rejection of the admission to this bill, but for which, if it continues, we request that its processing be completed with legislative competence in plenary, not only in the Commission. Firstly, Minister, we miss the possibility of buying or selling gas at virtual points through an e-procurement platform. Secondly, the draft law does not amend the legislation to bring it into line with Directive 2009/73, which is fundamental, the transposition of which has not yet been approved in respect of the separation of activities, which states that undertakings which own facilities belonging to the trunk network of pipelines must operate and manage or transfer the management of such facilities to an independent network operator, i.e. propose a certified independent network operator. Thirdly, and as we have also indicated, the bill is clearly in line with what his ministry and this Government have said, while the lack of confidence in the regulatory agencies is demonstrated. I mentioned to him the Metrology Act and that amendment to an article of the Electricity Act that had nothing to do with it, but to give him an instrument so that the minister from his office could share political influences. Of course, we believe that Community legislation should be transposed into our legal system, giving the regulator the capacity to take over the process of certifying the requirement for separation of activities, establishing the methodology for calculating tolls and charges in basic access services, imposing sanctions, establishing methodologies for access to cross-border infrastructures, monitoring transparency and competition including wholesale prices, supervising for the owner of the transport network and independent network manager who complies with the rules, functions which were broadly reflected in a bill which the Socialist Government has done in recent months and which brought the incorporation of Community directives with the same philosophy. You didn't do it. Fourthly, the bill does not impose obligations on natural gas traders to ensure the protection of domestic consumers, provides for a number of new tax measures, which have been referred to here, and creates a new tax on the value of hydrocarbon production. It's a carrot. They are insisting on the technique of fracking, of hydraulic fracture, which would also require another forum. This parliamentary group has brought two non-legislative proposals to the plenary sessions held during this parliamentary term, marking a position, and I believe that a rather rigorous, serious position, setting out the areas of competence, as the Constitutional Court has ruled, is a competence of the State, but dialogue with the autonomous communities is necessary and environmental respect and the possibilities for pollution must be respected. From the Socialist Group we believe that we must move towards an energy transition based on economic, environmental and social sustainability that will lead us to a model of low-carbon growth, which will clearly bet on renewable energies, but this is not just poetry, it is not just philosophy, it is our conviction, that it will reduce energy dependence and promote energy savings and efficiency. It is therefore necessary to suspend immediately the research permits or authorizations for exploration of hydrocarbons granted or in processing in the Mediterranean Sea and in non-Spanish jurisdictional waters, which are not Spanish waters which are international waters, adjacent to the Canary Islands. The Spanish State has only the first 12 miles, its jurisdiction, on the coast of each of the islands of the Canary Islands. Fifthly, ladies and gentlemen, we see clearly that this bill does not promote effective competition in the market for the distribution of automotive fuels, whose reality is that it has hardly changed since the application of Law 34/1998...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u76	Mr. Segura, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u77	I'd appreciate a minute, if you'd be kind, Madam President. This reality shows us in the highest price level in average values before taxes on Spanish fuels compared to the European Union, which is repeatedly noted in the various monitoring reports issued by the National Commission on Markets and Competition. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the inadequate levels of effective competition found in both the wholesale and retail sectors are a serious injury to consumers and SMEs with higher relative fuel prices. The monthly report, Minister, the monthly report on the supervision of the distribution of fuels in service stations that the National Commission on Markets and Competition prepared last November, Minister,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u78	Mr. Segura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u79	... last November, the CNMC, shows that the gross margin of distribution was increased, that is, the difference between the selling price to the public and the international quotation was increased, and it has also been underlined by the CNMC report that the pre-tax prices recorded in Spain in both gasoline and diesel were higher than the respective European averages. Of all this nothing says the bill and we are going to present the order of a dozen amendments in this regard...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u80	Mr. Segura, you've overtaken your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u81	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u82	Thank you, Mr. Segura. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, Mr Azpiazu, from the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the amendments to the whole of the bill amending the current Hydrocarbons Act and I rise to the rostrum to set out the position of my parliamentary group, the Basque Group, in relation to the amendments tabled by other groups. We, as you know, have not tabled an amendment as a whole because we have the hope and the conviction that with the partial amendments we will be able to amend the current text in the sense that we consider necessary and that the Minister of Industry knows perfectly well. We are going to give the government a room for manoeuvre and agreement that will allow us to move in the right direction and finally be able to vote in favour of the draft opinion in the Commission. In this context we announce that we will vote against the amendments to this draft as a whole tabled by other groups. For the Basque Group, this, Minister, is a very important law, since the development of gas has been of paramount importance in Euskadi for decades. We have considered natural gas as a transitional energy until the arrival of a scenario dominated by renewable energies and as a tool to replace oil consumption or its derivatives. Therefore, let me make a brief mention of the commitment made by the Basque Government to natural gas in Euskadi since the beginning of self-government, which allows us to understand our interest and position. The energy landscape in Euskadi has changed substantially since the 1980s, and the Basque Energy Agency has undoubtedly played a key role in this. Thirty years ago in the midst of the energy and economic crisis, he was able to react and propose a great transformation of his energy model in order to make it viable and sustainable. An energy policy based on efficiency, diversification of sources and promotion of renewable energy was launched. Gasification was a strategic bet which worked decisively both in the political and competitive fields and in the budgetary sphere, to allocate the necessary resources to the construction of the infrastructures of transport and distribution of gas; that was already more than thirty years ago and there is no doubt that this bet has borne fruit. Our energy structure has changed radically, a fact that clearly illustrates it: the share of natural gas in total energy consumption was 1 % 30 years ago, that percentage is now 38%. The focus of diversification to meet the needs of industry, domestic and commercial activities has worked. Our current energy mix reflects a reduction in the use of petroleum derivatives in industry, energy on which we were totally dependent just forty years ago, largely replaced by natural gas, much cleaner and more competitive energy, as it allows for much more efficient technological processes to be implemented. The demand for energy resources in this way is currently in Euskadi: 41% from oil, 38% from natural gas and 7% from renewable energy sources. First it was gasification in the industrial environment, later the domestic-commercial one and, as a logical consequence of this process, in the nineties it was bet to increase the points of storage and regasification, a point of entry of natural gas that increases the security of supply. In this context, as the Minister knows, the projects of Bilbao Bahía Gas were conceived, with the aim of guaranteeing the supply of natural gas and, at the same time, to make Euskadi an important centre of connections of the gas network on the Atlantic axis, and the combined cycle of Bilbao-Bizkaia Electricity to ensure the guarantee of supply. Projects whose joint design has enabled the successful development of both facilities over time. I would also like to mention the commitment made in the field of research, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, giving two concrete examples. On the one hand, the Basque Government through the Basque Energy Agency has a 100% public company, such as the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society, which has been operating in this area for more than thirty years. On the other hand, I should also mention the Marina Gaviota platform, which was launched in the 1980s for the installation of natural gas and is currently converted into a natural gas tank. The commitment throughout the natural gas chain with the continued realization of important investments has allowed the creation of a network of infrastructures on which the natural gas market has developed, settled and matured, which without them would surely have had a much lower rate of growth. Therefore, once the relevance of the issue before us has been highlighted, I shall now comment on some issues which, in our view, can be improved in the current draft amendment to the Hydrocarbons Act and which we will move into our partial amendments. As far as taxation is concerned, it seems to us right to establish new tax tools to enable the local authorities directly concerned and the landowners to obtain a benefit or compensation for the extraction. We believe that this benefit will certainly have to be extended at the level of the autonomous community, but we will try to do so through the partial amendments, as I said; however, I insist that our group present the amendments that will improve the draft. Like the Government, we consider it absolutely necessary to regulate a secondary gas market that gives the system greater transparency, allowing a price to arise for natural gas as it has been for a long time in other European countries, which will undoubtedly lead to greater competition and ultimately benefit the final consumer. However, and sharing the need for regulation in this area, we will also be tabling amendments to improve the proposed system and to enable us to take advantage of and highlight some of the structures already created, such as the Ibero-Bilbao Gas Hub, which can also contribute to providing liquidity to the market. This liquidity is the key element in the development of the market and, consequently, in the determination of the price of natural gas. I am sure that we will move in this direction in the right direction, Minister. The project also foresees changes in periodic inspections. The proposed amendment may lead to a significant increase in fraudulent actions, as is the case in other areas such as butane candy, which will have to involve a greater effort on the part of the Administration in monitoring and control. In principle, we are not opposed to the proposed liberalisation, although measures should be implemented for the correct coordination with the distribution company and the exchange of information between maintenance companies, distributors and administration with the aim of ensuring that the security of the system is not affected. Mr Minister, these are the ideas that the Basque Group wanted to convey to you and, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we will vote against the amendments to the whole of the draft in this agreement that we have with the Basque Government and with the Basque Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u84	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u85	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking to say briefly what our group thinks of this law, on which I have already announced that we are going to table a large number of amendments, testing the Government's willingness to reach agreements to improve it, as it says, or, as usual, rejecting anything that is not the Government's decision without any possibility of serious parliamentary debate. We have not tabled a total amendment because we believe that yes, we need to update a hydrocarbon law - let's see how it is done - and because my group, unfortunately, has some respect for reality and the laws of physics, so this kind of anti-hydrocarbon political climate that has been created cannot be shared and we would already like to. We would like to see no need for oil and gas at all, but the fact - it is a fact, not an opinion - is that today more than 70% of the world's basic energy comes from hydrocarbons, although it has decreased thanks to the development of other alternative sources. Even accepting the recommendations that are made to reduce the consumption and use of fossil resources, the real fact is that still, even if the feat - because it would be a feat - of halving, we would still need a lot of gas and a lot of oil; in addition, we paid a bill completely disproportionate for that type of source of basic energy simply because of our shortcomings. In this respect, something has to do - I have said it many times and I will insist on it - with a gas price in the majority markets of 250 % higher than in the United States. What does that translate into? It translates into unemployment, it translates into low industrial production and low competitiveness and relocations of energy-intensive companies. That is what my group wants to contribute to alleviating, that is to say, a responsible energy policy that is reducing the carbonization of the energy system, but does not do so through magical thoughts and ideas that have no empirical support. We too would have preferred - as we said at the time - a much more serious and rigorous regulation of non-conventional procedures - also known as fracking - to extract hydrocarbons, and we will present it again in this law so that there are maximum guarantees of environmental and sustainability. We are also concerned about what has been said here and what is happening with the gas market. Indeed, this law, as the minister has already said, has largely to do with the new perspectives that open up to the role of Spain as a distributor of natural gas to the rest of Europe, but we do not forget that Spain also imports practically all of the natural gas it uses and, of course, of which it could export in the future. That is an issue that should be at the heart of our concerns. In this respect, the law does not satisfy us very much, not to say anything, because it makes a number of statements that simply do not have the slightest basis, for example, it speaks of more competitive and transparent prices for consumers. Let's see, we live in a country where consumers have just been passed on to the gas bill the cost of the fiasco of the Castor gas warehouse, that's right. Consumers are going to have to pay out of their pocket, something they had nothing to do with, for an armored contract typical of the most chaste capitalism of friends. If this kind of thing is not corrected, what we are going to have is a market model more similar to electric, and there it will appear - which has already appeared by the way in the gas bubble, this is not a paradox, it is quite normal for the gas to form bubbles but not necessarily economic - the tariff deficit. We already have a gas tariff deficit, the cost of certain failed operations relating to gas infrastructure has already been transferred to consumers. In other countries such as Britain, the price of what consumers pay has also increased because the number of intermediaries has increased. Our group is going to put forward amendments to ensure that the gas market does not repeat, in any way, the errors, shortcomings and consequences of the electricity market which have become a tariff deficit, an oligopoly of the main producers and an automatic, always and constant transfer of these costs of political origin to consumers. So we'll see what the government has to do to make a law for hydrocarbons that doesn't repeat the most secular mistakes in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u86	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister for Industry and Energy, ladies and gentlemen, from the Convergence i Union Parliamentary Group we believe that the amendment of this law is necessary and we do not, of course, reject the adoption of changes that ultimately update the legislation and bring it closer to the more everyday reality. However, despite the fact that my parliamentary group has not tabled any amendments in full to this bill, in line with what I have just said, it is equally noteworthy that since Convergence i Unió we do not share some of the approaches with which this law addresses certain substantial amendments, and I am referring basically to the content but also to the way in which this legal amendment has been undertaken. So, as far as the form is concerned, Minister, I have to say that the way in which this bill is being dealt with shows once again that this Government is not interested in working together and dialogue with the various autonomous administrations, basically with the autonomous communities. The processing of such a draft law required at least the report of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which in the exercise of its powers sought the opinion of the administrations and agents involved in the relevant sector. If this had been dealt with by these observations that we are putting to you, the autonomous administrations would surely have been consulted on this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again dealing with the amendment of a law which, for this reason, marginalises the autonomous communities, and that is particularly serious when it comes to an area, energy, in which they also have competences and are an actor directly involved in the content of this law. That is precisely why we will ask the Government to be aware of this reality and to act in coherence with the decentralization existing in the Spanish State, in the necessary cooperation and coordination that this implies with the different public administrations. It is necessary for our parliamentary group that the Government increase the participation of the autonomous communities in key aspects addressed in this law, such as the processing of the procedure for the disqualification of wholesale operators of petroleum products for non-compliance with their requirements; also that it is possible the creation of the guarantee of operators, which in the opinion of our parliamentary group should be made before the general deposit box of the administration where the tax offices of the operators are located, or, for example, also that the structure and conditions of the tolls, charges and access to gas installations, where the law does not provide for the participation of the autonomous communities when this is considered entirely essential by the direct allocation to the territory that is supposed. As regards the lack of participation of the Autonomous Communities and the fit which the Government gives it in this law, I would like to make specific mention of Title II, which regulates measures relating to exploitation, research - by the way, as you know perfectly well, Minister, these research permits depend on the Autonomous Communities - and the production of hydrocarbons. With regard to the creation of the tax and the respective rates to which the bill refers, nothing to be objected by our parliamentary group; that is, we believe that an activity such as the extraction of gas or oil directly affects the territories and citizens living in them. The benefit of this activity must therefore give those territories and their citizens the corresponding economic compensation. In this sense, the creation of a tax is undoubtedly a tool of correct redistribution to benefit citizens living in the relevant territories, where such operations can be envisaged. However, that is where the principle of re-centralization underlying many of the policies of this Government shines through its absence in this project. The Government proposes that this tax and the fees and fees associated with the extractive activity should not be collected by the administrations, whose territories are directly affected by the implementation of this tax, but by the General Administration of the State, and in any case provides for subsidies through the General Budgets of the State to the autonomous communities that implement this tax, but with an amount that is not determined and that in any case will be conditional on the financial constraints of the State. From this point of view, I am already telling you that we are going to table amendments. We will also speak with the Minister of Finance to see if it is possible that these taxes will be transferred - there is no problem in which they will be owned by the General Administration of the State - to the autonomous communities where these operations arise. Similarly, from Convergence i Unió we understand that if there is an oil or gas field in a territory, in an autonomous community, provided that there is sufficient advanced technology to guarantee that the risks are controlled, it is up to that community to manage the extractive activity of these sources of energy that are developed in its territory and, therefore, to manage the incentives to that activity, to manage the taxes - as those provided for in this law - and to charge in any case the fees of the research permits that it grants, as well as to manage the payment of the suppliers. We are therefore faced with a second relevant issue, namely that it is the autonomous communities affected by these operations that can grant the corresponding permits. There are other technical aspects that relate to the articulation, but I will only raise some of them, for example, natural gas receiving inspections. The bill exempts the distribution company from the obligation to periodically inspect receiving facilities that limit the responsibility to communicate to users connected to their network the need for an inspection. Why, Minister? Because this is against security. Why are we going to change a question that has worked for many years? In the face of this new legislation, we run the risk that some accidents that have so far been fairly controlled by periodic inspections may occur. There is another matter that we are also concerned about, and it is that which refers to all those networks for the supply of liquefied petroleum gases by pipeline, and we believe that in this respect we would also have to implement measures that were in the direction of market freedom and not in the direction of discriminating against competition. Finally, there is another issue that concerns our parliamentary group - it is not basically this law, but we are going to introduce amendments to the joint text - and that is what refers to taxes on fluorinated gases. As you know perfectly well, Minister, this new tax, which is already in place, is very negatively affecting the productive economy that works with the cold; so much so that the charges of fluorinated gas in this new tax have increased by 80%, which is said soon. A fluorinated gas charge for a company represented an approximate cost of 300 euros, now with this new tax the fluorinated gas charges go from 300 euros to 2,500 euros. This is basically unsustainable for those companies that are working with industrial cold. Here, too, I would like to thank you once again - we will talk to the Minister of Industry if it is necessary - that we could correct in this legislation a tax, a tax that negatively affects the community and that can cause many companies that are working 80% in their industrial policy with fluorinated gas and with the cold to close. It is worth noting that you, to say the least, have been sensitive to matters relating to the productive economy, also in this case, and that you are seeking the complicity of the parliamentary groups in resolving this situation, because - I repeat - with an 800 % increase in these taxes for fluorinated gases, the viability of the productive economy is impossible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u88	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Finally, by the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Mariscal.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u89	Thank you, Madam President. This reform that the Government is presenting to us today undoubtedly involves the closure of the reform of the energy sector that this Government initiated at the beginning of the parliamentary term; a reform that began primarily by addressing revenue, establishing a major tax on the generation of the main environmental impact, and then the cost reduction was attacked. I would like to give a small example: reasonable returns of 7.4% were established for renewable energy installations, and if we had not changed that legislation, today we would have to pay almost EUR 11 billion in premiums, in a system of 35 billion. I say this so that we can see the situation in which our electrical system was located. Thirdly, of course, the aim was to boost and maintain the social bonus for those sectors most affected, mainly pensioners with minimum incomes, large families and those with less than 3 kilowatts installed. All of this depends on the enormous and fantastic effort of Spanish society, of companies and families and the courage and extraordinary value that this Government, in particular the Ministry of Industry, has had to deal with the greatest difficulty that the Spanish Government had in terms of energy, its tariff deficit, 26,000 million euros accumulated, 10 billion euros each year. Ladies and gentlemen, right now with our electricity bill we are paying 2 billion in debt amortization and 1 billion in interest, 3 billion, which is the amount that is set out in the General State Budgets only for education and culture. Let us realize the dimension of this enormous and fantastic problem. That concern that the Government had brought with it extraordinary results. Between 2004 and 2011, the Spanish electricity bill rose by around 67%. In 2013 it has dropped 3% - data from the National Institute of Statistics - and 4% in 2014. It is clear the change in trend that these policies have generated and that they also had their reflection last week with a 10% reduction in butane candy. Therefore, all technologies - this Government has shown - have access and, depending on their maturity, can be part of our system to ensure economic sustainability, and hence the competitiveness of our economy, environmental sustainability and security and security of supply. A small demonstration is the following: yesterday in the electricity system 58,09 % of the electricity consumed in our country came from sources that did not emit CO2. It is clear that there is no need to ideologize technologies, that there is no need to ideologize sustainability, what needs to be done is to work to ensure security of supply twenty-four hours, seven days a week under the conditions I have previously set out, because it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that energy, access to energy, the use we make of it, the form and the sources it has, undoubtedly represent the greatest limitation our country has for our economic growth. I shall now refer to the amendments which we are dealing with today as a whole. It seems to me that a misuse of what the amendments are all about is taking place in Parliament. There is, as the Minister has previously proposed, an offer to accept amendments and work together to improve the text of the law. What I do not think is appropriate is to use this unique and exclusively procedure to hold political rallies that I am going to try to dismantle right now, with my presentation. Is it wrong for the amendments that we are the only country in the European Union without an organised gas market, that there are no price signals, that there are only bilateral agreements and that there is a lack of transparency in the gas market? Does that sound wrong to you? Who benefits from this? Do you find it wrong that there is less presence, an active presence on the part of consumers, that they can themselves sell and buy gas? Is it good or bad that there is a gas market for Spanish industry? Undoubtedly, markets must be opened, there must be price signals and opacity and transparency only benefit the majority operators. Then I don't know very well who those who argue that this is negative for the Spanish economy are defending. Second example, gas installers and mandatory facility reviews. We are talking about 20,000 companies and more than 120,000 professionals that we are releasing right now - we are releasing the market - so that any of them can inspect, at any time and under any circumstances, without having to be obliged to a particular supplier. Consumers will therefore be free to choose who carries out such inspections. More companies, more returns from work, the economy moves, we eliminate intermediaries and lower prices. Nor do I understand why they find it wrong that Cores is the entity that manages the hydrocarbon reserves and that there is a minimum strategic gas reserve in Spain. I don't understand either. Exploration, research and production of hydrocarbons. I will deal with two preliminary points before referring to the text: primary energy, electricity, accounts for only 20%. Of the total primary energy in Spain, oil accounts for 46% and 25% of gas. - This is the first data. The second fact is that dependence on oil, as the minister said recently, is 99.5%. If we join it to gas, they amount to €37 billion a year, much more than we pay for debt servicing and much more than we pay for unemployment. Therefore, if we manage to reduce those figures, we will be able to spend that money on other policies, for example, moving forward, as we all want in principle, in an improvement of our country's industry. What has been done? Firstly, to amend environmental legislation and to protect any activity in this regard. The Environmental Liability Act was amended to establish minimum requirements for dealing with operations on the high seas. The Strategic Environmental Assessment Act was amended to require environmental impact assessments in conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbon operations. Finally, in addition to this legislation that we include, there will be a distribution of income that involves this type of triple activity. On the one hand, there will be a tax, as announced earlier by the Minister, which will fall on the autonomous communities and municipalities most directly affected, around 2% and 8% of the total value in the case of oil and 1% to 4% in the case of gas. In addition, the surface charges are updated by raising the figures that previously existed. And thirdly - it is a great novelty - the owner of the soil is involved in the investigations that are carried out in the basement, with 1% directed to that owner of the total value of the extracted. These three tax provisions did not exist in any of the eight hundred explorations that our country has undertaken in recent years. The need for the development of this law has become more than justified. We all know that in the United States, unconventional oil and gas explorations have been a revolution. Last year they have become net exporters of hydrocarbons. When American companies pay for gas for their economic activities they pay three times less than European companies. This directly affects our competitiveness and the very ones who are constantly demanding in the Commission the need to boost the highly energy intensive industry in our country, they are the same ones who are opposed to reducing the energy bill and the price of gas to these companies. He was talking about the Russian minister. It seems to me that it is important to emphasize the explanation in this environment. Europe consumes 462 bcm of gas a year and of those 462 come from Russia 109, which accounts for approximately 36% of the gas imported from outside the European Union, but is that of that 36% 53% goes through Ukraine. I would like people to have enough responsibility in voting for this type of initiative to understand that in a globalized and interdependent world, as we currently live in, this type of decision has its significance. I insist that 53% of the gas imported from Russia goes through Ukraine, and we have six partners in the European Union who use one hundred per cent Russian gas: Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Finland, Romania and Bulgaria. I therefore believe that this Government is clearly addressing the main energy challenges facing our country. The last point to be made is certainly to welcome the extraordinary work that, both at the European Council on 23 and 24 October and at the last meeting on 4 March, has ensured and ensured the introduction of all gas and electricity interconnections and projects of common interest to be financed through the Juncker Plan. These gas and electricity interconnections will mean for Spain security of supply, price convergence, competitiveness, and of course the ability to evacuate renewable energy at any time. We are and will be the only country in 2020 with less than 10% interconnection. This government has been able to deal with this difficulty, adding the enormous strength that we have with seven gas stations, which together with the two pipelines coming from Algeria make it possible to export - as the Minister said earlier - almost 40 BCM, which accounts for 10% of European consumption. I sincerely believe that this law involves generating and creating the basis for a new energy geopolitics in our country, for sustainable and responsible governance of resources, renewable energies, hydrocarbons and energy sources in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mariscal.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u91	We turn to the point concerning the amendments adopted in the Senate to the draft regulatory law of the National Library of Spain. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause]] For the Progressive Union and Democracy Group, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u92	Are we in the library, Madam President?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u93	Yeah, we're in the library.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u94	Thank you for reminding me. Moving from oil to books isn't that easy. With regard to the amendments that come from the Senate, we are going to abstain together with the majority; we believe that once again the Senate has not played a great role beyond that of retouching the text, and we will vote against one that is voted on separately, because we do not think that the leadership of one of the jewels of the crown of public goods, of the common pro-individual that we have all citizens, which should be strengthened, because it is an institution of enormous importance. We believe that the law has lost an opportunity. Otherwise, as I said, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u95	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: La Izquierda Plural, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u96	As the previous intervener, I will do so shortly. We want to begin this speech in defence of the amendments that come alive from the Senate with the same recognitions that our senator, Mr. Iglesias, has already made in his debate. First recognition, that although, in fact and in line with what has been said above, the law does not finally meet the expectations that we had and that we should have fulfilled a law of these characteristics, we do appreciate the presentation of the draft for the importance it had. We also want to recognise - we had to acknowledge something positive once, Minister - the efforts made in the search for agreements by taking on or trading some of the amendments tabled. But - let me put some, but - the amendments that you collect are usually less silent than what you should have had for the improvement of this law. As my colleague De las Heras expressed at this very moment, we continue to have serious reservations, and not only related to the text of the bill. Our doubts - that given the way in which we act are more than reasonable doubts - are based on the ability they can have to close all the questions that remain open: the elaboration of the statute or the development of the norm. Ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned about an issue that you have already started working on before the drafting and subsequent implementation of this bill, and we are talking about outsourcing, job insecurity, and ways of financing outside the public. There you are true experts to do things, in our opinion, again as you should not. As your ladies and gentlemen know, these are practices that we have discussed, criticized and rejected in other public institutions, and of course we also do so with regard to the National Library. For our group, it is of the utmost importance that a substantial part of the National Library's fund, which is the special funds, is preserved in the article and explicitly collects the will to provide access to specialists and researchers without under any circumstances - as my colleague Jesus Churches explained in the Senate - any impediment to the common of users, in the appropriate format, that is yes. It seems to us absolutely logical and reasonable that in the configuration of the plenary of the Royal Patronage there can be an extension of three to six people the current representation of the autonomous communities; three would be of a rotating nature and would be designated by the Sectoral Conference of Culture, and the other three by the academies of the languages. In the same way, it seems to us absolutely logical and reasonable that there are three members elected by the workers of the National Library of Spain. With regard to the selection of the director of the library, we believe that there should be provision for advice, specifying that it should be from officials competent in the field, entitled in Archivistics, Librarianship and Documentation. Again it seemed that our proposal was logical and reasoned, but it is clear that our logic and reason clash with the interests or reasonings of other political forces, of you, Minister, and of the Government. I ended up expressing our deep rejection of the door that opens to the intrusion of private initiative through the acquisition of participations. We want and defend a public National Library. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister, let us not be told that culture is chasing them, but you are running faster. Make a law that truly corresponds to the National Library of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u97	Thank you, Mrs. García Álvarez. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mrs Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to intervene briefly from the seat. From the very first moment my parliamentary group supported the bill that came to this House regarding the regulation of the National Library of Spain. We support it, just as we did with other projects, such as the project that regulated the autonomy and the new regulatory framework of Queen Sofia and the Prado Museum, because we understood that the regulatory framework of those institutions should adapt to the new times, to the changes that had taken place over the last few years. In short, we understand that this bill gives the National Library of Spain a regulatory framework, an instrument that will make it possible to convert an institution of the eighteenth century into an institution of the twenty-first century. Moreover, this is not a useful tool only for the National Library of Spain, we believe that this new regulatory framework will also be useful for the whole citizenry, for the library system of the Spanish State, within the corresponding competitive framework obviously. In the Spanish library system, autonomous communities play a very important role, and how not also municipalities, because they are doing a very important job to bring and facilitate the access of citizens to culture, through many of the libraries that exist in so many villages of the Spanish State. The National Library of Spain is a fundamental part of this library system. That is why our parliamentary group, in order to equip the existing library system in Spanish territory with that new regulation that is needed, gave parliamentary support from the very beginning, just as we did in other projects. However, the text could be improved, and that is why our group has tabled a number of amendments, and we must be grateful that a large part of them have been accepted. The only amendment that has not been incorporated into the bill has been Amendment 33 of our parliamentary group. We regret that it has not been incorporated, because it is also an amendment shared by the rest of the groups, which was in the same sense as other amendments that had already been tabled and had to do with the composition of the governing body of the National Library of Spain. We also appreciate the sensitivity of incorporating the amendments of our parliamentary group, and we reiterate that we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mr Buyolo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my first words are to thank Mrs Ana Santos, the Director of the National Library, and all her staff, for the reception and information she has given us, and especially for the work we have been able to do with her. We attended the last debate on the regulatory law of the National Library of Spain. These seven months of law-making have allowed us to highlight the importance and need for one of the identity signs of our culture to be provided with a fundamental tool for dealing with the future. Parliament has fulfilled its role, has lived up to the circumstances, and has worked to bring forward such an important law. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have also fulfilled our work and our principles, although as I have already mentioned in other speeches it is not the law we would have liked. Moreover, as other groups have already said, we believe that a good opportunity has been missed. This law does not live up to the fundamental role that the National Library of Spain must play. As I said, we have complied with our principles and with the history of our political action. It should be remembered that the Government of the Socialist Party of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero approved the Law of the Reina Sofia Museum; by the way, allow me to highlight the leadership of Minister González-Sinde to make this project possible. [[Applauds]] Now with the same institutional responsibility with the National Library we will vote in favour of this law, although we still think that the opportunity has been lost to make an ambitious law that truly responds to the needs of the National Library of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, Minister, it is now your responsibility. Now you must truly demonstrate that you believe in the National Library, that you believe it is one of our great cultural institutions, and it serves not only to remember and store our cultural heritage, but it is much more. Now they have no excuses. Provide the National Library with the necessary resources to move forward with its strength. It's your responsibility. I have already announced to you that our group and those who speak to you will continue to work to ensure that the National Library has all the resources it needs to be at the forefront of culture, and to be one of our signs of identity. The National Library already has a history of more than three hundred years. Created in 1712 by King Philip V, it has survived and grown thanks to its adaptation to each of the times. It is a living and dynamic library that has been at the service of citizens throughout history. The National Library has advanced in parallel with its time. Far away it is already when Charles III in 1761 decreed that the entrance - I open quotes - with hat, coffia, tied hair, dandruff or other indecent or suspicious costume, or any woman in days and hours of study, will not be allowed, because to see the library they will be able to go on holidays, with permission of the major librarian. Fortunately this time was behind and today women make up 61% of the National Library's workers. A national library is a library that calls itself the National Library, said Graham Cornish in his 1991 report, although I obviously cannot agree with him, because three hundred years of history I think they give him the title because they do. The same report highlighted the three characteristics that are common to all national libraries: to be financed primarily by public funds, to be open to the public, and to act as the main archive of materials produced in the country. The teacher himself concluded by saying: From these statements it is little more true. Although it is true that he then recounted fifteen important functions that libraries had. Not only has it been almost a quarter of a century since this report, but the technology society and the information society have spread and continue to expand at a dizzying pace. That is why we reiterate that this law does not meet expectations and remains short. The National Library is and should be the reference and advisory centre for library policies. It must be at the top of the Spanish library system not only adapting to the changing environment, but leading the changes as a driving force, defending the new library model, and facing the digital world, of course without abandoning the physical world. The contingency between the real and the virtual world is like the two faces of the same mirror. But to these two dimensions, the real and the virtual, it joins a third dimension that has the same importance, and where the National Library has to become the main resource of our language: the external dimension. The National Library of Spain cannot be just a repository and transmitter of knowledge. It must become an institution that develops an active cultural policy in the three areas I have commented on. From the top of the Spanish library system, the National Library must be the strategic engine of Spain's cultural development. The challenges are the pitfalls of opportunities. If you truly bet on the quality National Library you cannot fail to meet the challenges we face, and today there are three challenges: the management of that cultural heritage, the new digital culture, and of course the external projection of our culture. The National Library keeps the memory of the State; it not only preserves it, but also disseminates it. The acquisition of bibliographical funds is carried out by four systems: legal deposit, purchase, donation and exchange. It is necessary to provide resources for the purchase of funds, because it has increased from EUR 1,170,000 in 2010 to just EUR 210,000 in 2012, a completely inadequate figure. An important source of income cannot be limited. Undoubtedly this diminishes the function of the library. On the other hand, there is a significant deficiency in the cataloguing of documents, mainly due to the lack of human resources to address the cataloguing of the integrity of its collection. The latter is certainly not said by this Member, but can be read in the Court of Auditors' audit report of 26 February 2015. The second major challenge is the growing digital culture. Look at a figure: the total of the new digital content created in 2011 exceeds by millions the content of all the books written so far. In addition, Internet traffic has grown in a decade more than 13,000 %. The National Library is not exempt from this cultural revolution. In 2013, as compared to 2012, the increase in access to digitalized collections, through the Hispanic digital library, was 130%; and in the digital hemeroteca the increase was almost 275 %; a great challenge that generates a great opportunity that cannot be missed. The digitization started in 2008 thanks to the agreement signed with Telefónica has enabled the digitization of more than 137,000 titles and a total of more than 25 million pages. This process cannot happen. The National Library must be, thanks to digitization, the first resource of researchers, their source of consultation and the generation of more knowledge. But it is also a priority to preserve our digital heritage. We cannot allow all the cultural content that is being generated in the network to be lost. As cultural creation in physical media decreases, new forms of digital editing and self-publishing are created. You can't miss that creation. The National Library must have the necessary technological, human and economic resources to deal with the cataloguing and dissemination of this incipient cultural material. Finally, external cultural projection. The National Library must be a reference point, together with the Cervantes Institute, for the cultural projection of Spain abroad. It must be the first search resource, not the last resource; an action that is closely linked to the virtual dimension and the role of the leadership of the National Library as a library reference centre. We must take advantage of the potential of our culture and language to build that brand Spain, involving our major cultural institutions. I subscribe to the words of the expert in international cooperation Pilar Ponce Velasco: The National Library has that potential, and must be one of the main points of reference of Spanish cultural action. Let me now make a parenthesis to talk about politics. Members of the PSOE are not afraid of politics or democracy. Therefore, thanks to the Quorum.org platform, we open the debate of the law to citizens to give their opinion. I defend a representative democracy, but it is also necessary to complement it with participatory democracy, thus betting on an expansive democracy. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the participants for their contributions and ideas. Congress must be more open to citizens, and from the Socialist Group we will continue to do so. These and other many challenges we face today. They cannot be dealt with by law alone, but they need the resources to carry out that cultural policy. Unfortunately you in three years of government, Minister, have shown that culture is not your priority. The largest budget allocation available to the National Library was in 2009, the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, with 53 million euros. We are now, with your Government, Mr Wert, in about EUR 29 million, that is to say EUR 24 million less. Political priorities are meant in the budgets, and you have made them very clear, you are not interested in culture. Unfortunately his attack and contempt for culture go beyond the brutal cuts to the budgets: brutal rise in VAT, law of intellectual property against creators, law of patronage a thousand times promised and hidden in the drawer of Minister Montoro, elimination of artistic teachings, criminalization of artists, and a long et cetera that shame to remember. I conclude, Madam President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, it is now your responsibility to take steps to provide the National Library with sufficient means to meet its functions and competencies.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u101	Mr. Buyolo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u102	In particular, it is considered necessary to increase the personal resources of the National Library in order to limit resources for outsourcing services by librarians. By the way, I do not say this to you, as the President of the Court of Auditors says in his report of 26 February this year, which I of course subscribe to, and I urge you to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u103	Thank you, Mr. Buyolo. For the People's Group, Mrs Figueres.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Director and team of the National Library, thank you very much for being here. It is an important day for the National Library and for all lovers of the National Library. Borges said that libraries are the memory of humanity, and that even though this memory has many shadows, it is beyond doubt that only thanks to libraries can a future be erected that looks even a little like our hope, our memory, our history, the written and graphic knowledge of so many centuries. The National Library has always made a firm commitment to the preservation of a cultural legacy of which it has been a protagonist. Of the 30 million documents, just over half are printed books and booklets from the 15th to 21st centuries, and of them 3,164 incunables, the first editions of our literary jewels, and everything published in Spain since 1716, when a law dictated that: of all the books that are printed a bound copy is delivered to the Royal Library. The other half are almost 15 million manuscripts, recorded, drawings, prints, maps, scores, posters, postcards, photographs, sound recordings, videos, DVDs, personal files. The National Library of Spain is a true bibliographic and documentary treasure of the most valuable in the world, of which we can feel legitimately proud. Therefore, keeping, cataloguing, managing, increasing and disseminating this fund is an enormous task that this law wants to regulate and facilitate. This draft law regulating the National Library of Spain, which we are discussing today in its last parliamentary procedure, wants to strengthen the leadership of the National Library as the first librarian institution in Spain, wants to promote its role in supporting scientific and technical research, and wants to consolidate it as an international reference centre for access to information and knowledge in Spanish. The National Library of Spain has just turned three hundred and three years old, and in the last twenty-five years its way of working has undergone more changes than in the previous two hundred and seventy-eight years, both in internal management and in the provision of services. The dizzying development of information and knowledge technologies means that legislation must be adapted to this new reality. The unstoppable promotion of digital services and the diversification of media require changes in management that facilitate the development of technological innovation projects in an agile and time-appropriate manner. The 18th century library model is no longer operational, because today it is necessary to ensure the preservation of digital content, automatically catalog all funds, regulate cataloguing, regulate electronic legal storage, facilitate online document queries, create databases and link them with others, incorporate the large data sets generated by the National Library into the Public Sector Information Reuse Plan, to create unique bibliographic catalogues and digital libraries, and regularly expand storage spaces. All this makes it necessary to restructure the National Library of Spain, assign it new competences and establish a new management model. But it is not only that; with this law we want to place the National Library of Spain in the place that it deserves as a cultural and scientific institution of first order, with a fundamental role in the transmission and promotion of Spanish culture and knowledge, including the cultures of Spain expressed in other languages, also of the Spanish published abroad, and of that published in Spanish in other countries with which we share language. In addition, the National Library must be the vertex of the pyramid of the library policy of Spain, a reference centre, a generator of regulations and information, and also a coordinator of projects in which the autonomous communities as well as the diputations and municipalities holding public libraries will be involved. The effectiveness of the National Library, its collaborative vocation, will depend on the best service to the citizens who provide the libraries. We do not doubt at any time the capacity of the National Library to carry out this work of impulse and coordination, ranging from the creation of bibliographical catalogues and collective databases to training programmes, from the unification of digital libraries and repositories to the development of legislation, from the management of cooperation projects with the Autonomous Communities to participation in international programmes. The provision of a current and appropriate legal framework to the National Library will undoubtedly benefit the entire Spanish library system, avoid duplication and facilitate access to user information, and promote the profitability of public resources. This bill, which we are debating today, guarantees the irrevocably public nature of the National Library, while at the same time allowing for a more agile management of its resources and new avenues of funding, which will allow the institution not to depend exclusively on the general budgets of the State. In any case, the National Library, as a public institution, is subject to the justification and control of the General Intervention of the State Administration and the Court of Auditors. What this law does is to provide the National Library with effective instruments that promote the capture of its own resources, the collaboration of citizens through sponsorship, and the participation of the library in foundations and societies whose object is consistent with its purposes, and not on the contrary, dona Caridad, who seems to have understood it backwards, that it will be the societies that will have participation in the library, no, the library is absolutely public, it will be the library that will be able to participate in foundations and societies whose object is consistent with its purposes. On economic issues too, we want the National Library to be an institution of the twenty-first century, and it is not about mercantilism, it is about liberalism. There is communism, there is liberalism, you are communist, we are liberal, and we choose this model. [[Applauds]] We have seen how for a few years other Spanish institutions have been implementing abroad or have been able to lead successful international projects. The Cervantes Institute, with its expansive teaching activity, is today present in forty-four countries on the five continents, captaining the teaching of Spanish in the world. The Royal Spanish Academy coordinates the twenty-two Spanish language academies of the Spanish-speaking countries of the United States, the Philippines and the United States. The National Library of Spain also has this vocation of leadership and wants to establish links with universities, research centres and other libraries, basically from those countries with which we share Spanish. For all this, the library needs more skills, it needs management autonomy, it needs a real patronage that, beyond a function of representation and consultative status, is involved in the direction and the collection of resources, and this does not make it too broad. If he is to assume managerial functions, the real employer has to reduce the number he had so far. It needs a scientific committee to advise on research projects and ensure that quality objectives are met in the work that is generated. The National Library of Spain needs, in short, a law such as the one we provide today, which is indeed up to the standards, Mr. Buyolo, of a law, not of a statute such as that approved in 2009; it is up to a law and a management with a general director rank, which you have lowered to the general sub-direction. I remind you that there was a magnificent director who had to resign in order not to be an accomplice to this outrage. [[Applauds]] It is a law that has a permanence vocation and that within a year will be developed by a statute that will regulate in more detail its organic and functional structure. Mr Buyolo, I did not want to go into these matters, but neither did you. It takes a lot of defach to come up here as a representative of the Socialist Group and accuse the People's Group and the Government of having cut the budget; it takes a lot of defach as a representative of a group whose Government has plunged us all into a hole from which now the Government sitting on this side of the bench has to go out; a government that was shirking over the crisis rather than fighting it. [[Laughter]] [[Pointing to the right side of the Chamber]] It's a shock that you evoke those other times. I appreciate that, yes, Pilar Ponce's appointment, my great friend. In any case, I have come to talk about my book, in this case about all the books in the library and also about all the people who have worked and worked in this magnificent institution. I would like to express my gratitude, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to the Director and her team, to the workers, both officials and external staff, and also to those who have already retired. I would like to make a special mention of the emeritus librarians who continue to be linked to the library today by providing their knowledge. The National Library of Spain is today what it is for the dedication and unveiling of so many workers who have gone through there, for their dedication and their love of books. I want to end with a quote about the librarians that Umberto Eco wrote in The Name of the Rose. It says: The book is a fragile creature, wears out over time, fears rodents, resists bad weather and suffers when it falls into inexperienced hands. Therefore, the librarian defends them not only from men but also from nature, and consecrates his life against the forces of oblivion, which is the enemy of truth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Figueres. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to make an intervention that has the least risk of reopening the debate. I have the highest regard for the health and food of your ladies and gentlemen, and I will therefore confine myself to stressing what I think is important on a day like today and which has had a clear reflection in the debate we have just had. The fact that a leading cultural institution, a reference cultural institution such as the National Library, is endowed with a legislative instrument enabling it to act at the height of the twenty-first century - as has been underlined by some speakers - has been possible to carry it out by a broad consensus, by a broad agreement, not only that which has been reflected within this House and in the Senate, but also within the sectoral conference, the autonomous communities, professional associations of librarians, public information, etc. All this shows that, in fact, this consideration of the National Library as the great repository of our cultural identity is something that respects, promotes and accepts all groups; also in this intervention of the groups we understand this value that the National Library has as deposit of the plurality of the cultures of Spain, and it has been understood by most groups, even those who have disagreed with partial aspects of the norm, the importance of being able to adapt a library such as the National Library to the requirements of the twenty-first century. In my first appearance before the Congressional Committee on Culture in February 2012, I pointed out that it was desirable for the National Library to have a status similar to that of other major cultural institutions such as the Prado Museum or the National Museum Reina Sofia Art Centre, because it had a status of autonomy, autonomy of operation, financial autonomy, in short, to be able to carry out activities that are very demanding for all these types of institutions, which involve important changes in the dynamics of functioning, and we also had the experience provided by the corresponding statutes of autonomy of the Prado and Reina Sofia, had to allow the library to have the capacity to offer more and better services to the citizen, to work more in line with what is now a library. In short, the occasion of the third centenary of the foundation of the library, as has been emphasized here, we had to celebrate it with more than a commemoration and it was giving - if the expression can thus be used - to the National Library a mechanism, a legislative instrument that would allow it to function better. As has also been stressed, the National Library is the guarantee of the preservation of our identity but also of its proper cataloguing, of its proper dissemination. It is not an entity, as traditionally are libraries, that looks inside, but also - it has been said here - it has to look out. Yesterday, we celebrated in the National Library the opening of the exhibition Teresa of Jesus, The proof of my truth. Not so many weeks ago we were also celebrating another very interesting exhibition about Cervantine collectivism. I believe that the National Library, even before having this instrument, is already making a very wide use of its possibilities, also of projection towards the outside of Spanish culture, of Spanish cultures, of the diversity of cultures, and the importance that it has now to adapt its modes of operation - it has also been indicated by some interveners - to a digital environment in the absence of material support makes the function of conservation of these ephemeral materials also of the utmost importance; all this, this situation in which the contents transcend to the supports, makes it necessary and desirable that this new instrument be available. I would like to congratulate all groups on their contributions. I would like to stress the will of consensus that both within the Congressional Committee on Culture, which has adopted the text with full legislative competence, and in the corresponding Senate Committee on Culture, has allowed the text to be substantially enriched by these contributions. From the point of view of governance, as the spokesman of the PP has stated, we have sought a model that is more concentrated and more effective but not less plural, therefore not less attentive to a necessary presence, as it is in the governing body of this library that of the autonomous communities. It also highlights the fact that the very important collections available to the library not only constitute, as I said earlier, a wealth inwards but also outwards. In addition, the emphasis is placed on efficiency, on the re-use of resources, which, together with the function of preserving, cataloguing, also has the importance it deserves. I quote the spokesman for the Popular Group, Mrs Figueres, a reference to Borges in prose, and I will be allowed to finish with one in verse, when Borges in his Poem of the Dones says: "Slow in my shadow, the hollow darkness / exploration with the undecided staff, / me, that I pictured Paradise / under the species of a library." Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u107	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u108	We are finalizing the agenda with the debate on the full draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, Financing the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The Minister for Finance and Public Administration has the floor for his presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to the Congress of Deputies the draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, Financing the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 22/2012 of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. These are amendments that serve to accompany the new additional financing measures for the autonomous communities driven by the Government, which aim to ensure the financial sustainability of these communities and the provision of the basic public services that depend on the territorial administrations. These objectives have been, and remain, a priority for the Government throughout this legislature. That is why, in 2015, we adopted and incorporated the aforementioned financial mechanisms into the new economic reality that Spain is experiencing. In this way we facilitate the financing of our autonomous communities, whose citizens will be able to benefit from the savings of interest that will be generated. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to some of the figures that these funding mechanisms represent for the autonomous communities that receive the same in the largest amount. In order to cover the size, the importance of the mechanisms themselves, I must remind the House that Catalonia will have greater funding for the whole set of mechanisms in this year 2015 of 10,200 million euros, with savings in the interest burden of 1,610 million euros; that the Valencian Community will have in the same format with the set of financial instruments of the order of 9, billion euros in the year 2015, with a savings of interest of 1,037 million euros; and that the third in size, Andalusia, will have in the year 2015 a financing of 4,648 million euros and a savings of interest of 815 million euros when belonging to the set of financing instruments: postponements of liquidations, financial facility and other elements that make up the financial instruments put into effect by 2015. Indeed, at the beginning of the legislature we had a problem of tremendous dimensions in terms of the financing of our public administrations and, in particular, of our territorial administrations. As your ladies and gentlemen recall, the lack of confidence in the Spanish economy had spread among the countries of our environment and in the markets, which made our financing operations virtually impossible and impossible, to the point that a climate of opinion was spreading in those days favourable to the financial rescue of Spain. The situation of mistrust outside and within our country made the interest rates that we were being asked for from abroad to finance ever higher, which inexorably increased the bill that we had to repay in the following years, if not in the following months. This situation was even more serious in the case of some autonomous communities and municipalities, which met with fully closed financing markets, making the provision of public services in those autonomous communities impractical, even paying interest rates that were simply insurmountable. This lack of liquidity of the territorial administrations was combined with a practice that was unfortunately widespread in the Spanish administration to finance itself at the expense of suppliers, a practice that, as studies recently published by the Banco de España show, begins in 2004, when the public administrations formally offered a budgetary surplus at the time of its closure, and as the surplus became more and more widespread the gap, the increase in commercial debt, i.e. the financing of these public administrations at the expense of suppliers. What we find at the beginning of 2012 was not generated in the financial crisis of Spain, it had been generated since 2004, where the process of increasing the commercial debt begins. In Spain someone did not do their duties, someone, starting with the Government of Spain, was not meeting the financing needs of all the public administrations, allowing these business debt growth practices. Once again I have to refer to the famous heritage, but is that so, or is it that the government in Spain began in 2012? No, it began years earlier, since the beginning of our democracy, and when others have ruled in Spain, someone has stopped paying the bills and allowed them to stop paying the bills in the territorial administrations. That is what we are amending with the new funding systems, with the laws that we are implementing in this legislature, which make at the beginning of 2015 those practices so negative for companies, so negative for employment, so absolutely contradictory with what the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises means, but also with what the great suppliers of public administrations mean, today is an impossible practice without failing to comply with our legislation. In those first weeks and months of the legislature, the Government acted on this problem that blocked all the paths that could lead us to economic recovery in two directions: on the one hand, introducing measures to adjust spending, preserving social spending and approving structural reforms that conveyed the clear message that Spain was seriously facing the serious public deficit that we were suffering from; on the other hand, providing liquidity instruments to the territorial administrations that would allow them to obtain resources to respond to their financial commitments and, above all, to sustain their social policies by facing the invoices of their suppliers. It should be remembered that 70% of the expenditure of territorial administrations is social - health, education and social services - and 50% of the total expenditure of public administrations is carried out at territorial level. For this reason, maintaining liquidity to meet their commitments was essential for social cohesion. As we have seen the passing of this legislature, I must reaffirm that the implementation of those liquidity mechanisms, flanked by the structural reforms introduced by the Government, was an unwise decision, but absolutely necessary so that today we can say that we are emerging from the economic crisis and that the job-creating recovery to which we aspired is under way throughout Spain. Those measures that have taken place since 2012 have had a very positive effect on several aspects of our economy and, therefore, the legislative changes that we bring to this House deepen and prolong them over time. On the one hand, the additional funding we transfer to the territorial administrations, which has been fundamental in sustaining the social policies of our welfare State. During these years and until 2015, liquidity will have been provided to autonomous communities and municipalities in the amount of 184,167 million euros and only with financing funds 144,484 million. We can estimate that around 70% of this money has been spent on social expenditure, health expenditure, education and social services. We are talking about more than EUR 100 billion, money provided by the State which has made it possible for the social expenditure of all public administrations at this time to remain between 26% and 27% in terms of gross domestic product. It must be borne in mind that this money has not only been able to pay the expenses that had to be borne in each year, but has been able to pay the hundreds of thousands of outstanding bills of expenditure that had grown in past years, but which did not have the necessary financial flows to deal with it. Therefore, liquidity had not reached the real economy. That is precisely one of the plots on which liquidity instruments have had a more positive effect. Thanks to the injected money, more than 2 million outstanding invoices have been paid, which has brought enormous relief to the situation of many companies. The Banco de España has recently estimated that payment to suppliers under these mechanisms has generated a positive effect on GDP of up to 0.6 points cumulatively in 2014 and 0.7 points of employment. In addition, some strength has been given to these companies so that they can defend themselves from the crisis and have been able to cope with this new recovery in better conditions. With these measures, we have also greatly encouraged banks to reactivate credit flows. It should be borne in mind that many suppliers had deducted from the banks the debt that the territorial administrations had with them. When the Government launched the Supplier Payment Plan, that debt became the debt of the autonomous communities and the municipalities with the State, with which the banks emerged from complicated loans - complicated is a euphemistic way of calling them, because it was impossible for them to increase their portfolio of risk, they were clearly failed -. From there, banking entities have been able to improve credit access to families and businesses to help revive the economy and also to local entities and communities themselves because they know that supervision is behind them, first of all, and the state's ultimate guarantee. We must not forget that this liquidity instrument that has allowed payment to suppliers has been accompanied by a greater demand on the part of municipalities and autonomous communities in the policy of fiscal consolidation and in order to face up to the payment of their corresponding invoices. Madam President, these actions have made the state of autonomy a stronger state. All this has made it possible for territorial administrations to move forward with fiscal consolidation objectives. The great effort made by both communities and municipalities and the financial support they have received from the Government has served to change our State's perception of self-government. It should not be forgotten that local corporations went from having a deficit of 0.40% of gross domestic product in 2011 to a surplus of 0.52% in 2013, while communities reduced their deficit from 3.34% of GDP to 1.52% in that period. We have all strengthened our institutions and demonstrated that the model of state enshrined in our Constitution can be financially sustainable with the three levels of public administration that were designed in the Constitution. We have heard criticisms about these actions, about the existence of these aids to the financing of the autonomous communities and municipalities; criticisms that come to us that we have rescued the autonomous communities and the municipalities instead of affirming what is true, that we have financed the provision of public services by the autonomous communities and by the municipalities, as was our obligation, that the Constitution entrusts to the Government of Spain. This is consistent with the search for fiscal consolidation and is also consistent with the decline in late payment and, of course, with the application of the principles of financial prudence. Even today, several of the amendments tabled by the groups to the content of this bill speak of state intrusion, reduction of autonomy or guardianship, but what we have been doing - I repeat - is to strengthen the model of state, strengthen and boost the autonomous communities and, of course, to give an operational capacity to the municipalities, the local corporations as never before had in our democracy. Those are indeed the consequences of the combination between the pursuit of budgetary consolidation and financial sustainability; indeed, the principle enshrined in article 135 of our Constitution, as well as the affirmation of the sustainability of its provision of public services. It is the Government of Spain that is responsible for planning and directing economic policy, as is also clearly stated in the Constitution, and the measures we have put in place these years are part of this effort to ensure that the budgetary stability of all public administrations is feasible. These are the measures that have made it possible to have reached a firm economic recovery scenario like the one we are having today in our country. If we had not met the objectives set, it would be really impossible for us today to be talking about economic recovery and job creation. That is why it is so important for the country to continue along the same path as we have gone through these years, and that is why the financial aid provided by the State, while ensuring the financial sustainability of autonomous communities and local entities, seeks to encourage the achievement of these objectives. In this context of fulfilling the fiscal consolidation path with the effort of all public administrations, this liquidity policy has allowed to cushion the strong contraction impact of the economy that fiscal consolidation would have had without more on domestic demand since 2012. With the policy we have pursued, we have demonstrated - I insist on this idea - that it is compatible to reduce the public deficit and get the Spanish economy to grow and that today we are at the head of the job creation of the euro area. It was not true, therefore, what we were warned and some continue to warn us, that fiscal consolidation was going to sink us and aggravate the recession. On the contrary, with the measures we have taken, we are growing firmly and the forecasts put us at the head of the countries of Europe this year. Every time we know a forecast, whether made by a national or international analyst, it is to improve the forecast on Spain. To achieve this, these additional financing measures - specifically the Supplier Payment Plan - have played a decisive role because, on the one hand, we have reduced public spending but, on the other, we have been injecting liquidity into the economy. That has been the virtuous circle that we have created in terms of financing our public services, making compatible that unit of criterion of sponsoring budgetary restraint with the lax and correct financing of the services inherent in the welfare state. Today it is not additional expenditure because the expenditure already occurred previously but was unpaid, it was debt to suppliers. By paying that debt we have stimulated the economy, we have injected liquidity at a time of severe liquidity restriction, without damaging fiscal consolidation. It is worth wondering where we would be today if we had not implemented these policies. It is not for me to venture an answer to this question. It is certain that we would not be growing, nor would we have created more than 400,000 jobs in 2014, nor would we be leading economic growth in Europe, nor would we be doubling the growth rates we had on the same dates as 2014. As soon as we can recover the wealth and well-being that Spain has lost over the course of these seven years of crisis, we can see. Once we have made progress in macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms are in place, domestic demand has been able to regain momentum, benefiting from the recovery of credibility at the international level with a sharp improvement in access to financial markets - there is the placement of the Treasury this morning - and with a reduction in the country risk premium to below 100 basis points. This new situation has not only resulted in a substantial reduction in interest rates for the State, which pays to be financed to the extent of reaching historical minimums, but has led to a substantial reduction in rates for the autonomous communities, as well as an approximation in the cost of borrowing them all. Initially, the autonomous communities that hosted the Autonomic Liquidity Fund were able to obtain much more favourable financing on the markets; while in 2012 the State offered ten-year financing at an interest rate of 3.9 %, the autonomous communities - for example - that did not subscribe to the FLA obtained an average financing cost of 6.38% at an average time of 6.7 years. This has meant that those autonomous communities hosted by the FLA have achieved savings, as I said earlier, which are very important in all liquidity mechanisms. With the interest rate fixed in the new mechanisms at 0% for the first periods and at 0.834 % for the following, fixed with the first loan this week and governing the rest, savings of EUR 22,647.8 million are obtained for the autonomous communities and EUR 3,467.5 million for the local authorities and the average life of the operations. This allows them to use this money in other alternative uses for the benefit of their citizens. That is the philosophy with which we have worked these years with the territorial administrations and with which we will continue to develop the new liquidity instruments approved for 2015 and which lead us to present this bill - which today I have the honour to defend in the Congress of Deputies - in order to adapt to them the Organic Law on Financing of the Autonomous Communities and the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. This liquidity policy continues this year, but improving financing conditions. As I said to you, the economic policy launched by the Government, the work that all the administrations have done to meet the objectives set and, above all, the efforts of Spanish society have enabled Spain to regain its credibility and the markets to lend us money in better conditions. As I have recalled, the interest rates we are paying now are minimal in the history of the Spanish Treasury. It is fair that we transfer these advantages, that improvement of conditions to the autonomous communities and to the municipalities that request it; it is also fair that we offer better conditions to those who meet their deficit targets or the deadline for payment to suppliers in order to encourage and recognize these efforts. Now that the state is financed in better conditions, we are sharing with the territorial administrations and with all the public administrations the financial savings that the Treasury is getting. [[The Lord]] The spirit behind this policy is to sustain social spending, which is a priority for the Government, and to collaborate with all the public administrations that request it, in the case of those that have greater financing problems so that they can obtain liquidity under the best financial conditions and in the case of those that have managed to overcome these difficulties so that they can boost their activity, benefiting from the lower financial costs that the Spanish Treasury obtains. I have already had the opportunity to describe these mechanisms in the presentation of the decree-law that we discussed at the extraordinary plenary session of January, which now exempts me from explaining its functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise what the additional liquidity provided by the Spanish Government in these years to the autonomous communities and local authorities means, and which is having so many beneficial effects for all Spanish citizens. The institutions have been able to respond to their commitments, maintain their social policies and obtain large savings in the payment of interest on debt bondage. Above all, it represents benefits for citizens, who have been able to continue to access social policies that provide autonomous communities and municipalities; it is of course beneficial for suppliers, who have been able to collect their bills and have seen how they improve their business relations with the entities. It has also benefited the country as a whole, which, thanks to all the measures taken, is overcoming the economic crisis with increasingly significant rates of growth and job creation within a more robust self-governing State, which is more firmly financially established. In these years the State has designed and implemented what we must certainly consider as the largest financial operation in favour of the autonomous communities and local entities that has never existed in Spain. As I have pointed out, from 2012 to 2015 we will have distributed with different forms of financing or aid to the territorial administrations 184,167.2 million euros and we estimate that some 130 billion euros will have been allocated to social policies, i.e. to finance health, education and the set of social benefits that ensure social cohesion in Spain. These are figures that translate immediately into people's well-being and actually make our society more equitable and fair. These are figures that have served to build bridges over the crisis, in which the economy sank and unemployment grew inexorably, towards an economy in which we can guess a better future and rely on our possibilities to finally overcome the economic crisis through the commitment of all our public administrations. These are new formulas - as I said, and I have already reported enough - that mean savings. They are savings for our public administrations; important savings for the autonomous communities and for the local corporations that, in turn, release spending budgets that, instead of devoting themselves to paying financial burdens and dealing with public debt interests, can devote themselves to the priorities that the citizens of those cities and villages - of which we are all residents - really demand in those autonomous communities. Finally, I would like to remind you that these mechanisms also produce savings in all the public administrations of Spain, because they are not savings for the territorial administrations. They are savings for the total, for the final balance of our public administrations, which is what we do when we entrust to the Treasury the financing of our administrations, optimizing the reduction of their financial conditions and, of course, demanding financial prudence for those public administrations that decide to walk for themselves in this walk. Mr President, in order to give effect to the changes introduced in these liquidity mechanisms, the Government requests the Congress to vote in favour of this bill, which - I insist - amends the Organic Act on the Financing of Autonomous Communities and the Organic Act on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. We therefore call for strong support that what we are doing is strengthening all our administrations. We call for support to strengthen and advance the responsibilities of the Governments of our autonomous communities and of our municipalities, regardless of the ideology of those who have the responsibility to govern them, thus overcoming any prejudice that can really prevent them from accessing these liquidity mechanisms. I have already reported enough that these instruments have had great benefits for all; of course, for territorial administrations. We are therefore in this pooling by inviting them, in the interest of the general interest, to overcome party and electoral interest and to give explicit support to reforms of substantial laws that have contributed so much in this legislature to consolidate a new framework, a new scenario of economic recovery and job creation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u110	Thank you, Minister. This bill has six amendments in its entirety, all of which are returned. The Joint Group, the author of two of the amendments, will make its defence by laying down its position. I give the floor, first of all, to Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come up to this rostrum to position the Galego Nationalist Block in defence of the refund amendment that we are presenting and, therefore, to give the arguments that support it. It is not others, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that the amendments envisaged in this draft law under the pretext of ensuring adequate financing of social services, and that it involves maintaining and advancing within the framework designed by the Government of the People's Party in which the State exercises a strict guardianship over the financing of the autonomous communities and their margins in designing its budgetary policy with restrictions on debt issuance, the maximum deficit, etc. Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability imposed a severe limitation on the financial autonomy and fiscal responsibility of the autonomous communities, as set out in article 156 of the Constitution. This law was based on a centralist and centralizing concept, which included economic sanctions for administrations that did not meet budgetary objectives. In addition, central government intervention mechanisms left the principles of self-government and self-government in the various areas of government, especially the autonomous sphere, on the ground. The distribution of the so-called financial sustainability among the various public administrations implies an unfair distribution of the effort of budgetary stability, since most of the adjustment is imposed on the local administrations and the autonomous communities, which are, by the way, responsible for social expenditure and which have a much lower percentage of debt and deficit than the percentage of expenditure they manage and allow a greater margin for the central administration. This bill presented in the context of a supposed slight economic improvement rather than moving in the direction of measures of state protection imposed under the alibi of the economic crisis, consolidates the centralizing scenario described above, even expands it. Thus, the greater control exercised by the State in this draft law can be seen especially in two legislative amendments. On the one hand, the additional eighth provision of the Lofca provides for a new state intrusion into the financing regime of the autonomous communities, and the State may retain amounts from the financing system if there are outstanding obligations of the autonomous communities with local entities relating to transfers or social spending agreements. Moreover, the amendment to Article 20(1) of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability provides for greater protection for the autonomous communities, since in the event of a breach of the objectives of budgetary stability of public debt or of the expenditure rule, the need for State authorization is extended to the granting of guarantees, guarantees or other types of guarantees to credit operations. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this refund amendment because we do not, as we did not already do in 2012, share this government tutelage in relation to the other administrations, and in a very special way this refocusing effort. We do not share that refocusing effort of this People's Party Government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Tardà, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I rise to this rostrum to denounce, through our amendment to the whole, a bill that will - in fact it will - mean a return to the economic and financial drowning of the autonomous communities, which will punish their citizens because you know that social spending falls on the autonomous communities. Moreover, this drowning of the autonomous communities from the economic and financial point of view means that they cannot deploy policies aimed at promoting the basically industrial economy. [[health, education and social services]] Today I bring you another example of reality, not of what Minister Montoro paints for us. What is the reality of this week, at least mine, the one I live in? [[Show a document]] Look, Faibal is a company, like many others, from the Vallès region, Vacarisses; entrepreneurs who have small profits, a company that is very but very healthy. Mr Montoro, this is the reality: 105 families in poverty, without any social responsibility for these companies, many of them even receiving public aid. This is the reality, this world has nothing to do with Mr Montoro's. Mr Montoro is now bringing us a bill that intends to refocus even more. Like it or not like it I'm going to send a message to the citizens of my land. [[He continues his intervention in Catalan, whose text, which he delivers to the "Diario de Sesiones", says the following: Faibal companies and companies do not fail, som to your side. They can try to take the job, but not the dignity. Dignity only loses which is rendered. Citizens and citizens of Vacarisses, all at the expense of your fellow citizens, their struggle is yours and that of all]] [[Rumors]] If you don't like to hear it, calm down, because you're very used to bossing and one day it's gonna be over for you. This is the reality, not the reality of Mr Montoro. This gives even more arguments to those who defend that it is urgent and necessary for Catalans and Catalans to have a state of their own, because their arguments leave - I will say it in very popular terms - with their ass in the air to Catalan citizens who defend federalist positions since legitimacy. What about the almost 13 billion, recognised by you, of the imbalance between what we pay the citizens of Catalonia and what the Spanish State has turned us into? What about the third additional provision, which was required by the statutory mandate to invest in Catalonia, for example, on the basis of the gross domestic product generated? What about the funding of the Unit Act? You remember what interests you. Things are what they are. Now in addition to cutting, cutting and cutting, apart from drowning, Mr Montoro is still a little more perverse; now what he intends to do is to shock the interests of the municipalities and of the autonomous communities, because of everything that the autonomous communities owe to the municipalities now Mr Montero pulls out of the chistera the demand, the requirement that, if it is necessary - in fact it will - these resources will be drawn from the autonomy that is already very poorly financed. This is the reality. This happens in Catalonia, also in the Valencià Country, in the Balearic Islands and in other territories, which suffer a real fiscal expoliation. We are quite tired of their blackmail, we are quite tired of their neoliberal, right-wing, conservative policies that have taken the welfare state ahead, which drown us economically, and we opt for the proclamation of the republic as soon as there is a democratic majority in Catalonia. As Ovidi Montllor said, the great Valencian singer, who in Spanish would come to say that we will no longer be content with little, we want everything. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] We want our dignity. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Good afternoon, Mr. Montoro. You to your thing, huh? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you very much. This is the third time since 19 November that I have spoken in this House on such a transcendental issue as this one of the financing of the Autonomous Communities, the last one on 30 January on the occasion of the validation of the corresponding royal decree. I have already made clear my position on this, contrary, as you well know, and I do not want to sin as a repeater. Mr Rajoy, and you as a minister, as a political strategy, has turned the promise of a reform of the financing system into a varied puzzle of embroidery that is beneficial to the situation, also benefiting the autonomous communities, obviously with the consideration that the majority are of the People's Party; all at the same time with a clear and important disregard for their own autonomy and turning what is a right into something graceful. I am not going to be so foolish to vote in favour of the amendments to the whole, which in me have only been given on a number of occasions, by the content of this bill, which refers to social or local issues as basic to the welfare state. My affirmative vote on the amendments in their entirety, Mr Montoro, is for consistency in refusing to consider this a model change. This is not a model change, and someone else other than the previous government has not done the duties. I believe that you have not done so because since 2009 you have been totally opposed to the previous funding model, and have not changed it. They have upset things, they have considered it gracefully and here peace and then glory. This means the free financing of the waste of the most wasteful autonomous communities, in breach of the Budget Stability Act, which breaks the principles of equality and solidarity. You know that, Mr. Montoro. This project is summarized in one sentence: spend this year, because the next one we will see, and in any case the State pays it. We'll see what happens in 2016. Perhaps nothing happens, because it is much more comfortable to carry out the ritual of asking the government of turn for financing out of model and out of everything; of course in Asturias it is clear with the pact of interests between the PSOE and the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u115	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr Baldoví, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u116	Mr. Montoro, you've talked about doing your homework. I am a teacher and in my class you would not pass the course, because you do not do the duties, at least you do not do them in my land. You do not do the duties with sufficient resources for the exercise of the competences of the autonomous communities. You have seriously breached the Valencian Finance, since the resources of the autonomous financing system are below the average, and you recognize it, despite being a community with a per capita income below the median - Article 2 of Organic Law 8/1980-. You don't do your homework because you had to ensure a level of delivery of basic public services, but with your funding we only get 85% education and health. [[health, education and social services]] The rest are not paid by the suppliers, we all pay because we are in debt one year after another; you have been in the government of my land for twenty years and you have been in debt to us, you have increased the debt exponentially. I remind you, article 15 of Organic Law 8/1980. BYou do not do the duties with respect to constitutional loyalty. The rates of VAT have increased and the economic effect of this increased collection does not reach the Autonomous Communities - Article 2 of Organic Law 8/1980 -. Until November, EUR 819 million of VAT was collected, many of which we have not seen. All these imbalances required a review of the autonomous financing system, as required by the seventh additional provision of Law 22/2009, which has failed to comply with its Government. You have not done your duties here; you have said that after the elections. I'm done. Tax collection is increasing at a rate of 10%, but the resources planned for 2015 of the autonomous financing system for the Valencian Treasury will be lower. Something's not being done. We have financed ourselves, not at the expense of suppliers but at the expense of loans that we will continue to pay. You are the one who has not done the duties and, in my class, you would not pass the course; in my class you would deserve to go to the opposition. Thank you very much, Mr Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be brief, because I also believe that the subject is very clear. We are certainly not going to support this project for three reasons. The first, because there has been a lack of institutional loyalty. The autonomous communities are informed by the media, they are called three days before to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and not all information is given in that Council, which has left them without prior knowledge of such important matters as guarantees and guarantees, the inclusion of new causes of application of the mechanisms of intervention by the State or new limitations on financial autonomy in terms of indebtedness. This is an absolute lack of institutional loyalty. Second, this government's lack of courage to take on a political commitment such as to review the funding system and to come into operation as of 1 January 2015. I believe that this is the great issue, the issue that I really should have made, courageously, the government of the State. And the third reason why we are not going to support this project is because it affects the constitutional principles of the autonomous model and the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. It is very well reflected in all the amendments tabled in their entirety. Finally, the restrictions provided for in article 14.2 of the Act are exempt from compliance only with those autonomous communities that are party to the new Financial Facility. This different treatment has no justification either in the norm, nor in its memory, nor in constitutional or economic logic, not to mention the issue of the Compensation Fund, which balances communities on equality and which continues to be two years late in liquidation. For all these reasons, the Canarian nationalists are not going to vote on this bill and we will therefore support the amendments as a whole. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Progress Union and Democracy Group. Mr. Hook, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. This organic bill slightly amends, modifies at least two very important laws, the Budget Stability Act and the Autonomous Financing Act, only to adapt them to the new extraordinary liquidity mechanisms. In this sense, the Minister's intervention has been very significant because he has not spoken at all about the changes he is going to make in the Stability Act or in the Lofca. You can see that these laws don't matter to you, the Stability Act because it doesn't comply with it and the Lofca because it doesn't want to reform it. He has only told us about the extraordinary liquidity mechanisms, which is where he feels comfortable, in this arbitrary regime, of exception that he has imposed in the autonomous state since he began his mandate and to whom he does not want to end. It continues to presume that it has rescued the territorial administrations massively, that it has made a rescue of more than 100 billion euros insufficiently conditioned. But that is not the debate today. The debate today is what changes are being made to the Budget Stability Act and the Lofca, and those changes seem insufficient to us and the few that are being introduced seem to us to be wrong. Let's start with the Budget Stability Act. My group voted in favour of this law. It seemed to us, although they did not accept almost any of our amendments, that it was a useful tool to ensure the financial sustainability of our administrations and to improve coordination between them. But this law has a problem and it is that the Minister of Finance is not complying with it. The first problem is the violation of the law. It was not implementing the measures provided for by law, preventive measures or corrective measures, and was not requiring all non-compliance administrations to submit the required plans. You will say that this is a very bold statement that makes Union Progress and Democracy. It is not done by the Progressive Union and Democracy alone, it is done by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, which has told the Minister that there are seven non-compliant communities and he does not apply the corrective mechanisms, and it is done by the European Commission in analysing the macroeconomic imbalances in Spain and wondering why the Budget Stability Act is not being fully used. The minister uses the law, if I may have a metaphor that is not very elegant but descriptive, like a garrote that has hung on the wall and when in his negotiations behind closed doors with the communities he has a problem I imagine he looks back at the garrote threatening to untie it. But that's not a law. The law is the opposite of discretion, the law is the opposite of arbitrariness, the law has provisions that have to be respected. That is why it is particularly worrying that the few changes to the Budget Stability Act extend the margin of discretion. These changes are as follows. So far, the adjustment plan was public in nature and there was a precise timetable for the implementation of that adjustment plan. With the changes introduced by the minister in the law, that is no longer the case. Instead of a public adjustment plan and a public timetable, we are vaguely told that the Ministry of Finance will publish information on the adjustment plan. So far, the quarterly information sent by communities when they are subject to an adjustment plan is generally known. What less in a democracy, and more in one that presumes transparency. With the changes now introduced by the Minister, this quarterly information will no longer be generally known. That is to say, if the law has so far been applied in a discretionary and arbitrary manner in the opinion of the AIReF, in the opinion of the European Commission and of course in the opinion of the Progressive Union and Democracy, that margin of arbitrariness and discretion is now being increased. We propose exactly the opposite: strictly comply with the law and reinforce it in the line we proposed when it was discussed: improving the previous control mechanisms so that it can act before the problems are manifested in a triple line. First, we propose direct control of public expenditure by administrations, that there be spending ceilings in all administrations, not self-imposed as now, because the current law controls the deficit and only indirectly the expenditure, and by inflating the revenue forecasts, the expenditure can increase. Therefore, direct control of expenditure. Secondly, that within this expenditure there are guaranteed minimums for health and education that guarantee their quality, so that if cuts are to be made, another type of non-essential cuts are to be prioritized. And, third, that the draft budgets of the autonomous communities before they are discussed in the autonomous parliaments be monitored to verify that they meet these requirements of ceiling of expenditure and minimum expenditure on health and education. That is to say, a kind of Spanish semester equivalent to the European semester that sovereign states practice within the European Union. A fourth reform has to do with the fact that paper endures everything, but reality often exceeds paper. This Stability Act foresees that in 2020, that is, within five years, the Spanish public debt will have to be at 60% of GDP, and as we are five years before that date and our public debt, thanks to the management of the Minister, is close to 100% of GDP, it seems difficult to believe that in five years the public debt can be reduced by 40 points of GDP, that is to say by EUR 40 billion. Therefore, if that forecast has to be credible it should be revised, and this reform of the Stability Act would have been a good opportunity to reform that forecast, which today is impossible. With regard to the Autonomous Financing Act, the Minister has decided to leave his reform for the next legislature. I insist that he moves more comfortably in the extraordinary situation, in arbitrariness. Why not reform that Autonomous Financing Act now, not in the next legislature? Our main lines of reform of the Financing Act are as follows. It must provide the same resources per adjusted population, the same resources per inhabitant, to all communities, taking into account the different costs of provision for geographical or demographic reasons. It has to be negotiated multilaterally. It has to be simpler and more transparent than the current one, ending this multiplicity of funds of different understanding. It has to increase fiscal co-responsibility; if communities want to carry out additional policies, of course they can, but they have to finance them with their own resources. And we must end the privileged situation with regard to the funding enjoyed by outland communities, with 60% higher funding than the common system communities. These are, as you see, transcendental issues. Why postpone this to the next legislature? If communities have funding problems and there are funding inequalities between them, why not solve them by the ordinary way, which is the Lofca, and not by these emergency funds, which are extraordinary in theory, but which are becoming ordinary because one happens to another. We are talking about funds which, as the Minister has explained, are well over EUR 100 billion. This year 2015 that we have started is particularly important for autonomous finances because it is an electoral year, there are autonomous elections within a few months and, again, not only the Progressive Union and Democracy, but the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority and the European Commission warn of the risk of non-compliance with the objectives of autonomous deficit due to this election appointment. What has the Minister done about this risk and threat? Take additional preventive measures? On the contrary: toss more wood into the fire, toss more gasoline into the fire. It has launched zero-interest-rate funding for the autonomous communities to reward the most non-compliant communities with more resources to spend on election appointments. We are in favour of the opposite. We are in favour of a reform of the Budget Stability Act that gives more preventive mechanisms to the Administration to avoid this overflowing of deficit targets and of a reform of the Autonomous Financing Act that allows the communities to finance themselves on an ordinary basis and not depending on the discretion of the Minister of Finance. That is why we have tabled this complete amendment to the insufficient bill that the Government has brought to the House. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u121	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. Group of the Plural Left. Mrs Ortiz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u122	Thank you, President. This is a law of two articles, although the minister here has had a good time almost taking stock of the legislature, because I think that is what he has come to do; it is more electoral campaign than anything else, although he does not then listen to the other Members who come here to present our amendments to the whole. Minister, this is the umpteenth twist of the Stability Act and a new express modification of the Lofca to keep that shirt of force to the autonomous communities, and this time it surpasses itself in cynicism and hypocrisy. It is really, as I said, noted that you are in the campaign. If they now wear the re-centralization, the misunderstanding of austerity and the institutional disloyalty of rescue to the municipalities, that really is a twist to their speech, and above all today added that that is what has strengthened the state of autonomy. The organic bill that we are now dealing with goes deeper into two of the objectives that you have pursued with determination throughout this legislature: the reduction of the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities and the advancement in the path of evil so-called austerity, two issues on which our group has always found it. The root of this policy and the origin of the laws that have been passed is already found in the amendment of the Constitution - and we have been saying this - made by the Socialist Party with its support, where cuts and priorities are constitutionalized and where everything becomes subject to debt payment. Then comes a Law of Stability, with the support of Convergence i Unió, which has become the main hammer, the most effective hammer to strike the self-government, and since then, just like, all the consensus jumps through the air and through austerity all goes well. There are no longer any competing reservations, no basic or fundamental rights, no territorial dialogue or anything. You reproduce in the worst way the behaviour of Germany with the European Union: the reason why I say it and blackmail, and so the detachment with Europe arrives in the countries of the south at unseen rates. Scepticism grows when not the ultra-right, the fruit of maintaining unjust policies on a permanent basis and of denying democracy and the ability to decide from nearness, as well as of preventing co-decision in common spaces. You do exactly the same as Germany does with Europe and you are getting the same detachment and discouragement in Spain. There is no longer democracy because there is no framework for fiscal authoritarianism to which all institutions are subject. You are setting up the plutocracy of those who have the money, which is not yours, Mr Montoro, it is not that you have given it, it is the money of all the citizens, also of those who live in those communities and in those municipalities. You cannot come to this rostrum saying that you have given to the Autonomous Communities, it is money of the whole. The autonomous communities have their competences and their capacity for self-government, nobody gives anything, nor is it free of charge what they are sharing. And they are subjecting everything to the interest of the market, Mr Montoro, and not the country. With this system we have these legislative assemblies today, and so there is no territorial model. And it still comes to say that this strengthens him. If what they have done is empty out of content the very meaning of the autonomous word! The starting point of the Government's persistent and erroneous solution to the crisis is a failed solution to issues of justice and equity for the people, which takes advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid to restructure the re-centralizing state. Following the reform of section 135 and its development in the Budget Stability Act, a whole system of drowning of funding for the autonomous communities and local governments has been developed. The drowning is twofold: on the one hand, preventing new income to the autonomous communities and to the local administration, in addition to systematic non-compliance in the payments that the State owes to the communities and, on the other, making an unbalanced and unjust distribution of deficits and debts between the different levels of administration. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u123	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u124	Recentralization, through the financial stifling of the autonomous communities, not only undermines financial autonomy but also seriously erodes the welfare state, because it is the autonomous communities that have the most crucial competencies for that welfare state to function. This attack on financial autonomy is also an attack on social cohesion. And that disloyalty we have seen in all the modifications that have been made. We see it in the refusal to review the funding model as established by law. You come here to boast when you have not even opened the negotiation of a financing model that should have been in place since January 2014, but disloyalty also sees you when you refuse to pay the third additional provision of the statute or unjustifiably delay the payment of the Competitiveness Fund. The crisis erodes the autonomous communities, but so does the Government itself with its own style and with its own laws. The Government's irresponsibility to social rights and autonomous communities had not been substantiated. The debt and deficit spreads that Brussels still allows us are clearly mismatched by the share of competition and the share of expenditure. Clearly unfair. The Government dares to say in the explanatory statement of the law that we are now discussing that mechanisms have been empowered to share financial savings and that social spending will also be prioritized. How does the government intend to prioritize social spending? By fulcruming financial autonomy, proposing to replenish autonomous resources and by making the central Government face up directly to the outstanding obligations of autonomous communities? The Government aims to lead to a treacherous confrontation between local entities and autonomous communities, holding the latter accountable for failing to fulfil their obligations. Mr. Montoro, you must be very hypocritical. The financial problems of the municipalities stem precisely from the lack of a good funding framework for local authorities to guarantee their ability to respond to the social emergency. The People's Party has not provided a local funding framework, which has been to cut the capacity of municipalities to meet social needs and perform essential functions reserved for them, as has been the case in the reform of the local law. It has cut their ability to provide services in health, education, equality, because of their legislative reform and now they say they are going to rescue the municipalities at the social level. Today they dare to come here with a law to campaign for the municipalities, to have a scapegoat: the culprits are the autonomous communities. It is true that there are autonomous communities that do not comply, and a good example is the Generalitat's debt to the Barcelona City Council, but do you really believe that this is effective, that you have legitimacy when you systematically fail to fulfil your obligations? Do you think that paternalism and authoritarianism builds a territorially cohesive state? They guarantee financial autonomy to the autonomous communities; they bring together the bilateral commissions, which are not one meeting; they dialogue, and they comply with the statutes, that is the best way to guarantee social services. As for what depends on you, do you know how social services are guaranteed, Mr Montoro? By providing, for example, the Concerted Plan for Social Services, which has increased from 100 million to 27 million. Then can you come down here and say you're making a social rescue? You can also talk about your responsibility with social services when you have left out your contribution to teleassistance for the elderly or with what has happened with the Unit Act. The present bill also requires greater checks on guarantees, revalidation and guarantees. In principle, increasing controls in this case would not seem to us to be negative, but it should not be the State that authorizes, as the Government proposes, the signing of such guarantees. Autonomy does not mean guardianship of the central Government; they must understand that the autonomous governments are not subordinate to the Government. I think that's fundamental. You are far from understanding that the autonomous state, fiscal federalism, lies precisely in the fact that there is local democracy, that there is democracy in the autonomous communities and that citizens, if they do not like how their resources are being spent by their Government of the Generalitat or their Government in Andalusia, have the capacity to decide and throw them out. That's what you don't understand. What you do is that when you mainly don't like what an autonomous community spends, you intervene. That is neither democracy nor an autonomous state nor anything. We should, of our own fiscal effectiveness, move forward in fiscal federalism for better management and co-responsibility from nearness, because that is what we have built over the years. You read the Constitution at your leisure. We have many examples not only in the architecture of the Liquidity Fund and the blackmail they subject to municipalities and communities, but when they seek their revenue capacity, as happened, for example, with the constant sabotage of the Government itself of autonomous initiatives such as the tax on bank deposits or on electricity supply. With regard to recentralization, we have a minimum of five royal decrees and eight laws during this legislature in three years, which are flagrant attacks on the statutes of autonomy and the minimum principle of loyalty. What is most serious is the lack of democratic legitimacy with which you act and change your model. The electoral programme of the People's Party did not say anything about the territorial model; it did not say what the model of state they defend. When asked, when asked the President of the Government, there is absolute silence about what territorial model he defends. They miss that debate and also want to avoid the democratic conflict that exists in Catalonia. They say there's nothing to touch: political passivity. But basically, what we have seen is legislative hyperactivity more peculiar to a centralized state than to an autonomous one. Those who have emptied the Constitution at the territorial level, but also at the level of fundamental rights, have been precisely this Government. The Constitution - you said - recognizes that the State has the capacity to lay the foundations of economic policy. Yes, but the Constitution also talks about the right to work, the right to a progressive fiscal policy, the right to a quality public education... You have emptied the whole block of constitutionality, from the statutes to the Lofca itself, and you have blown up the capacity for minimum dialogue, you have not even called the instruments of dialogue with the different administrations. In short, the Government has launched in this legislature a re-centralizing crusade that is dangerous to the autonomous communities and to the local entities, but, worse, it is also dangerous to the citizens, who in the end see spoiled the services they receive from the increasingly racist welfare state. What is reckless for citizens' rights and services is their unjust fiscal policy: more inequality, less redistribution, cuts and now, on top of that, an electoral auction of checks, bonuses, which puts pensions and public services at risk. And, please, when you come here to cut self-government, don't come dressed as a social rights defender. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortiz. Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister for Finance and Public Administration, ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the whole - which we are going to discuss below - basically for a structural reason, for structural issues that we have been denouncing throughout the whole parliamentary term. [[Convergence and Union]] There is one sentence that we give great value to, Minister: the liquidity loans that you so much like to explain and detail in Parliament - and that we every time a liquidity loan has been raised to the autonomous communities or local corporations have voted favorably - are an abnormality. We have voted in favour of them, we agree, but they are still an abnormality in the current economic context. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group - and because of what I have heard for the rest of the parliamentary groups - the normal thing would be sufficient autonomous funding. [[Convergence and Union]] Basically for this reason, as you propose the amendment of the Law on Budgetary Stability and the Lofca, we thought that the normal thing would have been to propose a system of global financing and sufficient for all the autonomous communities. Because you know perfectly well, Minister, more than anyone else, that without financial autonomy it is very difficult for the autonomous communities to manage successfully and with quality all social services, education and health. And if there is no such freedom or financial autonomy, we are deprived of the freedom necessary to make politics. If we do not have this financial freedom, the foundations of democracy can stagger. Therefore, Minister, the normal thing would have been to talk about the financing system. That is why, basically, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety. It is true, however, that there was also a short-term strategy in our parliamentary group to talk about the issue that you raised today, which is not what we would have liked, but we would be willing to negotiate with the People's Parliamentary Group - we have spoken to it personally, also with the spokesman for that group - some amendments to which I will immediately refer. If we were to agree on this short-term economic issue, even if we were not on the long-term structural issue, we would be prepared to withdraw this amendment altogether, which - I repeat - does not resolve the substantive or long-term structural issue, but would allow the resolution of that other short-term aspect to which I referred, which for our group is very important. Minister, if we do a short-term analysis, this bill incorporates a set of technical content changes that we could appreciate positively. For example, it is a reality that this bill articulates the necessary avenues to guarantee the financing of social services that so far have been financed by local corporations, a competence that, from the reform of the local administration, will be of the autonomous communities. Therefore, here you establish a positive mechanism with which we agree. There is another issue that we also consider interesting and that we appreciate positively, that the draft law improves the liquidity lending system that territorial administrations are receiving, and that loans are also needed because the income system has become obsolete. Here I repeat the fundamental premise I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Liquidity loans, although necessary at the current juncture, are an abnormality. The normal thing would be to have a funding system. Having said that, Minister, we welcome these two issues. There is one aspect - the most relevant of the bill that you have just presented to this House - that we are very concerned about. I am referring to the possibility that, with the strict application of what is contained in this draft law, the autonomous communities that have many difficulties and have an institute of credit or autonomous finance - as we have in Catalonia the Catalan Institute of Finance - will be able to see their ability to give credit and endorsements to small and medium-sized enterprises. We are talking here, Minister, about a very important role that you know perfectly well from the Catalan Institute of Finance, although we could probably extend it to the rest of the autonomous communities with similar institutes. They are financial administrations alongside the real productive economy. With this bill, if we do not sufficiently clarify the legislative issue, we can find ourselves with which they could be very damaged and all the guarantees, credits to small and medium-sized enterprises, to self-employed and to the productive economy - we are talking about small credits, Minister - could not be given immediately when this law was passed. I therefore ask you here to be able to join this parliamentary group in accepting in the parliamentary procedure all those issues that affect the possibility of not restricting the ability to grant guarantees and to give credits by the Catalan Institute of Finance or by the financial institutes that have the different autonomous communities. If that were the case and the intervention of the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group could be made clear that we are going to deal with it - I am going to rely on those demonstrations, because, it is true, whenever we have raised a question for the adoption of a law on relevant issues, you have committed yourselves and, in most cases, you have fulfilled - in this case, we would be objective and realistic and for the sake of the ability to generate financial resources for the productive economy, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for self-employed workers and also for trade, for small and medium-sized traders, we would rely on their demonstrations and we would quickly withdraw the amendment as a whole. There are other substantive issues to which I referred at the beginning of my speech that are relevant. We plant the Minister why, if they amend the Lofca and the Budget Stability Act today, they are not able, with an absolute majority, to address the reform of the financing system of the autonomous communities, which, as you know, Minister, had to be in place at the beginning of 2014. However, you have not had enough political courage, with an absolute majority, to address this reform, when you know perfectly well that it is of great interest to the autonomous communities in general, without forgetting, Minister, that the autonomous communities are a very important part of what the Spanish State and the central administration can represent, which always - to be said - comes out the most benefited in all the reforms that have been carried out by this government. They're the ones who collect all the increases with the tax increases. It should not be forgotten that in the last two years, as well as in the 2015 budget, more than 35 billion euros will be incorporated into the central administration and not even one euro will go into the autonomous communities. At the same time, we have been calling throughout this legislature for the advance of the payments to the autonomous administrations. Today, it makes no sense for the autonomous authorities, the autonomous communities, to receive less advance payments on account in 2015 than in 2012, with the increase in economic activity and with the tax and collection increase that has materialized. We also call for advances from the Competitiveness Fund. [[The Lord]] In short, you know, Minister, that for this reason we have tabled the amendment as a whole at the general level, but, I repeat, if we are able to agree on this short-term issue of what you have discussed today, we do not fall for the rings to withdraw the amendment as a whole and go directly to solve an issue as important as that which concerns the Catalan Institute of Finance of the Generalitat and similar institutes of the rest of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor to defend Mr Saura's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, at the beginning of your speech you referred to some political and economic concepts that I would like to raise and comment on in my speech. You said that there has been a virtuous circle: the public deficit has been reduced and funding has been increased, but you did not then say that the public debt has so far increased by EUR 290,000 million. More than a virtuous circle, I would call it a perfect storm: the public deficit has been reduced, public debt has been increased by 290,000 million euros - last year almost 68 billion euros - and public services have been reduced as never before in the history of democracy. That, more than a virtuous circle, is a perfect storm. You said that the fiscal consolidation that this Government has made is the key to success in economic recovery. Let's go back to public debt. The most important variable for determining our country's public finances is public debt. As I say, it is around one hundred percent of GDP. A few years ago, before the start of the legislature, it was 70%. Furthermore, Minister, I believe that you must be the only finance minister in the whole of the European Union who has not learned that, thanks to the relaxation of deficit targets, an economic recovery is taking place. The key to recovery is precisely the relaxation of deficit targets. On the other hand, you have never met the deficit targets, because the European Commission has rightly relaxed the deficit targets. That is the key to recovery: the change in the philosophy and paradigm of the European Commission and the European Union, together with the change in monetary policy in the European Union. Minister, at this point all Spanish know that the risk premium has fallen because Draghi and the European Central Bank have changed their monetary policy. All countries, including peripheral countries, have reduced the risk premium. It is not because of its policy, it is because of the change in the macroeconomic policy of the European Union. It has changed the mix of European policy and that is why there is recovery. You have insisted on your intervention that there is savings in this organic bill. Let's see. These are loans that the autonomous communities have to repay. The real savings would have been that with the absolute majority that you have and taking into account that the previous model of autonomous financing ended in 2014, you would have reformed that model of financing, because that is savings, that is financing not to return. For the year 2015, autonomous funding has grown for all the autonomous communities 900 million euros. According to the budgets, revenues have grown by 10 billion euros, but for the autonomous communities it has been 900 million euros. Changing those percentages and millions of euros would have meant real savings for the autonomous communities. This isn't a savings because they have to return it. You said that these funds that were created had their origin in which the markets were closed for the autonomous communities, that since they could not be financed in the markets they had to be created. Well, Minister, but then you tell us that the markets have been opened. I just didn't get it. If at first we had only two funds to solve that problem and now we have seven in agreement with these changes in organic laws and markets have opened up, why do we move from two to seven funds, why, if it turns out that funding has improved in the markets for the autonomous communities? Where is the justification for that reasoning you are using here? No, no, Since you have not changed the autonomous financing, you have proposed another way of financing the autonomous communities in a discretionary way and it is through loans that you have to repay. This is the model you're putting forward right now, the bottom model, but don't tell us the milonga that since markets are closed... They've been opened and we've gone from two to seven funds. When they talk about invoices in the drawers I think they should be more prudent and they would have to apply the story, because, if we talk about invoices in the drawers, the autonomous communities with the most invoices in the drawers are the autonomous communities or the administrations governed by the People's Party. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the only autonomous community that has been warned and pointed out by the European Union has been, by the invoices in the drawers, the Valencian Community. I think you should be more careful. Moreover, they created a supplier fund, one, once, because they said that bills had to be paid in the drawers. Not only have we gone from two to seven funds; the vendor fund has been renewed three times, not once but three times the vendor fund has been reformulated. Therefore, with that of the invoices in the drawers should be more prudent and apply the story. We have already had a lot of parliamentary work and we can describe the narrative and sequence of the Ministry of Finance's policy on autonomous financing and budgetary stability, and I will try to sum it up quickly. You came to the government and raised a law of budgetary stability that was a law of ideological, hard budgetary stability that could not be enforced. [[Rumors]] In addition, the law brought black men to the autonomous communities, memos, troikas, intervention, renationalization of the economic competences of the autonomous communities, and in addition, no new model of autonomous financing was approved. That is the quick result of the sequence of its alternative, a very difficult law of budgetary stability to comply with. At the outset, reaching 60% of GDP in the year 2020 of public debt, if we are now 100 percent, was impossible to meet. [[The Rumors Continue]] So even black men towards the autonomous communities. What is the result of that policy...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u129	I'm sorry, Mr. Saura. Please be quiet so that you can hear Mr. Saura!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the result of this sequence of policy in autonomous financing and budgetary stability? The The Budget Stability Act is not being implemented and not only that, but has been modified in one way or another on a dozen occasions. In addition, public debt, as I mentioned earlier, has grown by EUR 290,000 million, last year by EUR 68 billion. We are the country in the world where public debt has increased the most, in this legislature and in the last year. The autonomous communities had a debt target of 13% in relation to GDP by 2020. They already account for about 25% of GDP debt. This is the result of the Budget Stability Act. In fact, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority in its appearance the other day suggested that the Budget Stability Act should be changed because neither its objectives nor its path towards 2020 are being met. This is the first finding: the Budget Stability Act is not complied with. That is very irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, because it creates a problem of international credibility. Now, as the interest rate is low as a result of the fact that European economic policy has changed, there are no problems, but with a debt of 100 percent of GDP, when the interest rate changes, if we do not have a law of budgetary stability with clear rules that can be met, it is irresponsible in this context of public debt of 100 percent of GDP. The second consequence is the re-centralisation of the autonomous state. We are moving away from fiscal federalism, which is the goal for which autonomous accounts should be set in an autonomous state like ours. We're moving away. That is the second consequence of its policy of autonomous financing. Thirdly, the autonomous communities cannot, and cannot, comply because the Budget Stability Act is so harsh that of course they have to adjust the welfare state, but they cannot. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority acknowledged on the other day that by 2014 the autonomous communities are going to fall from 0.7 % of GDP, with which they would have to close, to 1.5%. They can't keep it. Therefore, these autonomous communities need funding. They are not given a new model of autonomous financing, they are given seven autonomous funds that have gone from being short-term to structural; that is, this is the new parent of autonomous financing. This is not a model of autonomous financing, it is an autonomic financing engineer, seven funds that are distributed in a discretionary way, worsening the reputation of the Spanish public debt, because in the idea of fiscal federalism each autonomous community has its adequate funding, but also each autonomous community has its fiscal and debt co-responsibility. This is the idea of fiscal federalism. These are therefore seven new structural funds which propose not a new model of financing but a whole set of autonomous financing. [[The lady]] What should have been done are two things, first, a law of budgetary stability that is complied with, with clear and concrete rules of expenditure and revenue that are met and with achievable objectives. This is what should have been adopted at the beginning of the legislature. That is why we are voting against the Budget Stability Act. Before there was another law of budgetary stability, now comes this one that is not fulfilled. And besides, as I say, no fiscal consolidation, nothing, 290,000 million, Spain is the country that has increased the most public debt in the world. The country's deficit in 2014, with the exception of Japan, is the largest in the world. Firstly, there is therefore a need for a budget stability law that is in line with the objectives and the economic cycle and, secondly, for a new model of autonomous financing. This leads us to well-funded autonomous communities, to the financing of the welfare state and logically to the credibility of public accounts. Because, I insist, the risk premium has fallen, there is recovery as a result of the change in European economic policy, not as a result of Spanish budgetary stability, because there is no budgetary stability, Mr Montoro. The deficit has fallen, this is Mr Montoro's rule: the deficit has fallen and the debt has risen by EUR 290,000 million. Thank you, Madam President. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u131	Thank you, Mr. Saura. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Azpiazu. [[Denial]] Mr Matarí, for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, to what the various speakers have argued to justify your amendment as a whole, I will answer you with two questions. Do you or do you not want public administrations, in particular the autonomous communities, to benefit from the lower financing costs that today are possible for the improvement of the economic situation in Spain? Secondly, do you agree that social spending must be a priority and that its funding must therefore be guaranteed, yes or no? Ladies and gentlemen, in order for these two things to be possible, we must pass this bill, as the Royal Decree-Law presented by the Minister of Finance had to be adopted on 20 January. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the positive economic results that we are achieving, by the efforts of the Spaniards first but also by the progress in fiscal consolidation and by the reforms approved by the Government, must be shared by all the public administrations and that, therefore, the financial savings that today allow for these lower financing costs must be transferred to autonomous communities and local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the new mechanisms allow savings to be shared and at the same time devote special attention to financing social spending. Do you think that's wrong? For this reason, the amendments made by this bill on the Act on budgetary stability and financial sustainability and on the Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, when some of the speakers are talking about measures to support the liquidity of the autonomous communities, they are talking - some, because others say the opposite - about recentralisation, loss or limitation of economic autonomy. They do so with this bill, with the Royal Decree-Law of January 20, with the Plan of payment to suppliers, with the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, with all the measures approved by the Government of Spain. I have to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are public institutions that could not be financed, that could not meet their debt obligations, that could not pay their suppliers -40 billion euros the Payment Plan to suppliers - and could not finance basic public services either. I also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that more than 70% of the funds, of the resources mobilized, have been allocated to providers of these basic public services: health, pharmacy, education, social services. You call this recentralisation and loss of autonomy. We call it the guarantee of the Spanish welfare system, ladies and gentlemen. We had to launch this major operation which has enabled the territorial administrations to fulfil all these obligations and which has enabled the whole of the State, because Spain is all, ladies and gentlemen, the fulfilment of the commitments, to generate confidence, to regain the credibility of Spain, to grow and to create employment, which is what is happening now in our country, and to maintain essential public services in very, very adverse circumstances. [[Applauds]] They also criticise the restrictions introduced by this reform on the granting of public guarantees and guarantees, which aim to reduce the risk and the cost assumed by the autonomous communities. We believe that what the bill proposes is necessary and proportionate. It is curious that the Socialist Group in its amendment to the totality criticises this measure when irregularities in the granting of the guarantees in the Andalusian Board have led to the opening of another judicial case and to the imputation of another councillor and is being investigated whether there has been a weakening of public funds as a result of the granting of guarantees above the budget limit. [[Applauds]] The General Intervention of the Board of Andalusia, in its report on the famous IDEA Agency for 2009, says that guarantees were formalised for 71 million euros, when the maximum amount for that annuality was 18 million. By the way, many of the companies that received these guarantees from the Andalusian Board also received aid from fraudulent EREs. What a coincidence. A little financial prudence, Mr Saura, and also a little political prudence would do you no good. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking all day about social policy, but you do not think what the Government is proposing to facilitate its financing and to ensure the continuity of the public services provided by local authorities under agreements with local authorities or through other transfers, especially social services. This is bad for you. You think it is wrong, Mrs Ortiz, because you prefer that local authorities continue to pay for social services that correspond to the Autonomous Communities. In Andalusia, for example, the Board owes more than EUR 150 million to municipalities and parliaments and then they are all day boasting of non-paying social services. There has also been talk - all the speakers, especially Mr Saura - of the financing system, of the need to reform it, of the patches which, in your view, represent the Government's measures to improve liquidity and financing, of non-compliance and of how bad the current system is. In the latter the truth is that we agree, but the surprising thing is that they agree with us who pushed him, who approved him, who defended him and who applauded him. We didn't do any of those things because we've always thought it was and it's a bad system. That is why the People's Group did not support it, nor did the presidents of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party support it. The 2009 autonomous funding model was approved by the Socialist Government, Mr Saura, chaired by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, the autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party and the Catalan tripartite, formed by the Socialist Party, Initiative per Catalunya, Mrs Ortiz, and the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mr Tardà. Today everyone agrees that this 2009 reform has not met any of its objectives. I mean more. If one of those objectives was to accommodate the funding system to the new Statute of Catalonia to curb subsequent nationalist demands, the failure, unfortunately for Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has been absolved. And in case there was any doubt, Mr.Bono took care to clarify it: I spoke to Arthur Mas - Zapatero said - and he said to me: I am taking away the nation and you are going to put more money. That's what you did, that's how you did things, that's how you did the financing system, with so bad results and so much damage to Spain. Mr. Saura, what you're saying is a lie, it's a lie. The Socialist Act of 2009 regulating the current funding system does not set it an expiry date. Where do you get it that ended in 2014? That law of yours establishes indefinite validity for that model that you approved. You know that, because you just have to read that law. The seventh additional provision provides for the five-year evaluation of the structural elements of the system by the Standing Technical Committee for Evaluation, for the purposes, the law says, of its possible modification by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The third transitional provision states that the first evaluation of the results of the system will be carried out with reference to 2013, i.e. this year 2015. Therefore, there is no non-compliance. Don't say more that the model is defeated because it's not true. What's wrong? Yeah, definitely. What's a new one to do? Also. And let's do it, ladies and gentlemen. Now that we have fixed and cleared the public accounts that you have left in bankruptcy, we will be able to do so, and the Government and the Autonomous Communities are already working to do so. To cover up the failure of this model it is intended to hold the People's Party government responsible for not knowing what. We, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for ensuring, as Mr Montoro has explained, the financing of the autonomous communities and the financing of the essential public services they provide. We are responsible for having secured their liquidity and for having been able to pay their debt dues, the payroll of public employees and also to suppliers. We are also responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for the liquidity measures to have a positive effect on gross domestic product and on employment, as a report by the Banco de España recently acknowledged. Allow me, Madam President, before concluding, to thank you for the intention that Mr Sánchez i Llibre of the Catalan Group has commented on the possible withdrawal of the amendment as a whole. I will tell you that we are in a position to deal with the claims and amendments made to us by Mr Sánchez i Llibre in the Commission. [[Rumors]] The approval of this project, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u133	Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u134	I'm done, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u135	Wait a minute, Mr. Matarí. Please keep a little quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Matarí.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u136	The adoption of this organic bill will mean taking a step further to improve the liquidity mechanisms that have been made available to the territorial administrations and that have served, ladies and gentlemen, to make compatible, as the Minister said, the reduction of the deficit with economic growth. [[Mr. Saura García makes negative signs]] Yes, Mr Saura, to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of budgetary stability, to promote job creation as a major national objective and also - and very important - to ensure basic basic services, i.e. health, education and social services. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u137	Thank you, Mr. Matarí. [[Mr Sánchez i Llibre asked for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u138	Thank you, Madam President. According to Mr Matarí's statements, we are going to withdraw the entire amendment to the Lofca Amendment Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u139	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. You're retired. We'll vote in a few minutes. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u140	We shall proceed to the votes. We begin with the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy on the steps the Government intends to take to provide a speedy, transparent and effective solution to those affected by Bankia's outflow, so that they can recover what is lost and clear the corresponding responsibilities. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 283 votes in favour, 104 against, 164 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u141	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u142	Discussion of all legislative initiatives. Firstly, the vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft amending Law 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the Military Career, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Union Progress and Democracy. Six votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 285 plus 6 telematics votes, 291; in favour, 12; against, 266 plus 6 telematics votes, 272; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u143	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u144	The plenary of the Chamber has been requested to give notice of the deliberation and vote of this law. The avocado was voted. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 285 plus 6 telematics, 291; in favour, 121 plus 1 telematics vote, 122; against, 164 plus 5 telematics votes, 169.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u145	It is not called by the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u146	Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of Members' activities, which has not had any interventions. Can I assume it's approved by consent? [[Consent]] It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u147	Royal Decree-Law 1/2015, of 27 February, of a second chance mechanism, reduction of the financial burden and other social measures. Six votes have been cast electronically and we will vote on their validation or repeal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 288 plus 6 telematics votes, 294; in favour, 176 plus 5 telematics votes, 181; against, 16; abstentions, 96 plus 1 telematics vote, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u148	The royal decree is validated. We will now vote on the bill as a matter of urgency under this royal decree. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 288 plus 6 telematics votes, 294; 287 plus 6 telematics votes, 293; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u149	It will be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u150	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the bill amending the Hydrocarbons Sector Act of 7 October and regulating certain tax and non-tax measures in relation to the exploration, investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The joint parliamentary groups, Mrs Pérez Fernández and Mrs Jordà, from the Plural and Socialist Left, have presented themselves and six telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 288 plus 6 telematics votes, 294; in favour, 104 plus 1 telematics vote, 105; against, 172 plus 5 telematics votes, 177; abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u151	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u152	The plenary has called for this bill to be dealt with, and that is what we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 288 plus 6 telematics votes, 294; in favour, 122 plus 1 telematics vote, 123; against, 166 plus 5 telematics votes, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u153	He won't be called by the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u154	Senate amendments to the draft law regulating the National Library of Spain. We shall vote, first of all, on the amendment to Article 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 285 votes; 280 in favour; 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u155	It's approved. Amendment to Article 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 285 votes in favour, 281 against, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u156	It's approved. Rest of amendments passed in the Senate to this bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 285 votes in favour, 265 against, 10 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u157	They're approved. DEBATE OF TOTAL LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES : [[VOTING]] - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/1980, OF 22 SEPTEMBER, FINANCING THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND ORGANICAL LAW 2/2012, OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY. [[File number 121/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u158	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. These amendments have been tabled by the Mixed Groups, Mrs Fernández Davila and Mr Bosch, of the Progressive Union and Democracy, of the Plural and Socialist Left. Six telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 285 plus 6 telematics votes, 291; in favour, 103 plus 1 telematics vote, 104; against, 167 plus 5 telematics votes, 172; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-12-CD150312.u159	They're rejected. The meeting rose. It was five and twenty minutes in the afternoon. [[*******page with picture **********]]
