ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u1	The meeting was resumed. Questions to the President of the Government. First of all, Mr Cayo Lara, from the Group of the Plural Left, asks.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, what steps is the Government taking to resolve the various open labour conflicts in our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Lara. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u4	Thank you very much. As you know, Mrs Lara, the main measure is collective bargaining. It is also aware that the Labour Inspectorate always offers technical assistance to the parties to try to reach an agreement and, if there is no agreement, it is the courts that have the last word. But more important than measures to resolve conflicts are measures to prevent them. We have boosted collective bargaining with the approval of the reform; today there are 43% more collective agreements; thanks to the flexibility provided by the reform dismissal is no longer the last resort, with which there are 300,000 people who have been able to retain employment through 6,337 withdrawals from the agreement; the number of EREs has fallen by 40%, and all this has led to fewer conflicts than ever before. There are fewer strikes and fewer unworked days, 32% less, and less labour conflict. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Lara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u6	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, the reality is different from our point of view. The last two labour reforms, especially yours, have facilitated the dismissal of hundreds of thousands of workers, many of them older, qualified people who are left in the gutter. Bosal, a Belgian multinational with profits, fired all workers, 222, at his Sagunto plant nine months ago to relocate production. They're asking for solutions. Elcogas is the only thermal power plant in Puertollano that also produces clean energy and its Government has authorized the closure and lay-off of 143 workers. Vodafone Ono has been on strike for three days for the dismissal of 1,159 workers without just cause and obtaining benefits. As far as Bankia is concerned, we have asked the president of the institution to appear to explain the irregularities in the application of the ERE. Coca-Cola Iberian Partners is a company with benefits that made an ERE that affected 1,190 workers, and has been mobilized for almost two years. All judgements of the National Court and the Supreme Court have declared the ERE null and void and require the readmission of all workers to their jobs. Judgments remain unfulfilled by the company. It is a pulse to justice and the rule of law with the indifference of its Government. In this regard, I have sent a letter to you, Mr President. The BRIF, forest firemen, ask for recognition of their profession. They have also been on strike for two months. In short, Mr Rajoy, I am telling you that the workers need a government that will protect them from the law and protect them from the misconceptions and abuses of certain companies. His Government, from our point of view, has not done so. Look, Mr Rajoy: three days before you won the election I was given this picture It is a premonitional allegory, it represents a part of this Spain that leaves you in precariousness, with low wages and less protection for the unemployed. [[It shows it.]] Mr Rajoy, you can still take action in favour of these workers. Do not leave us alone with the capital punishment of labor reform and do not leave us alone with the smell of sulphur in this House. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Lara. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Lara. I do not share the statements you have just made. As I have pointed out, there has been a very important dynamism in collective bargaining, with 43 % more agreements; the number of employment regulation files has fallen by 40 %; there have been setbacks that have prevented many people from losing their jobs, but the most positive is the job creation data we have seen in recent times. In this second quarter - see the EPA - employment has risen to an annual rate of 4.96 %. The same has happened with Social Security, the latest data from August show an increase of 3.19%. The latest data we have seen from the Economic Office of the European Commission say that Spain is the second country in Europe where indefinite recruitment has increased the most. And the most positive thing is that all growth is going to employment. You have made known to this House some facts that are indeed true. I am not going to go into the details of each and every one of the files you refer to, but I do want to tell you that they are issues that are currently being clarified in the courts and on which neither this Parliament nor the Government nor you nor I can enter because it is the courts that have to decide. The clearest case is Coca-Cola. The representation of workers has raised an incident before the National High Court and it is the National High Court that has to make the decision. The Government, even if it wished to make any decision, could not do so because it was not within its competence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEP SÁNCHEZ I LIBER, OF THE CATALAN GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I OF THE UNION, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT VALUE THE RESULT OF THE ELECTIONS TO THE CATALUNE PARLIAMENT CELEBRATED ON 27 SEPTEMBER? [[File number 180/001394]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u10	He asked the President of the Government of Mr Joseph Sánchez i Llibre, of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, how do you assess the results of the elections on 27 September?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u12	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u13	Going to the important thing, who has called the elections and raised them as if they were a plebiscite has not achieved their objectives, since the majority of the citizens of Catalonia have positioned themselves in a different way than the person who called the elections did. The majority have said that they were not in favour of independence, with which those who have convened the referendum at the moment not only do not have the support of the law, without which nothing can be done in a democracy, but also do not have the support of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, I sincerely believe that I still do not understand what is happening in Catalonia. Our spokesman, Mr Duran i Lleida, has already said on several occasions that choosing to buy time would not solve the Catalan question and that the only solution is dialogue and political response, but you have been betting on letting the time pass and the problem has been solved. The only answer they have given has been that of the courts imputing the President of the Generalitat, the former Vice-President and the Councillor d'ensenyament. The campaign has shown a polarization to which you have contributed. There has been no room for reason and for nuances, and so it has gone to Unito. But everything will come, don't hesitate. Today more than ever we need politics, that is, dialogue, pact and compromise. And you have a great responsibility, Mr President, you are not just any leader, you are the President of the Government. That is why we urge you, once and for all, to come down from the donkey and make a strong political proposal, to make a political proposal with capitals, to make a major political proposal to resolve this situation. Do not hide yourself, Mr President, whether others want to engage in dialogue or not, do not take refuge in the fact that you do not want to be responsible for breaking the unity of Spain. Do not be afraid to be robbed of your votes, Mr. President, do not be afraid of the shadow that some former president of your party projects. Be brave, have courage. Mr President, it is time for statesmen, not party leaders. Accept the reality of the results, which is what it is and not what one or the other wants us to see; and please formulate once and for all a political proposal so that, by dialogue among all, we can find a way out of the Catalan question as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u17	Thank you very much. After the outcome of the elections, I believe that the right thing to do is to form a government as quickly as possible, to comply with the law and to put an end to a period that is already too long, because in the last five years we have had three autonomous elections and the only thing that has been done is to generate uncertainty, instability and division in Catalonian society as a whole. Therefore, what we all expect - and I believe that all the citizens of Catalonia need it - is to enter a normal stage, a stage that is characterized by collaboration and institutional dialogue and, of course, by respect for the law. The political positions I stand for are very well known and different from those of other political forces. They are in their right to do so, but there is something we are all obliged to do that is in addition to the law, because if in a democracy that governs we are running for elections with a single programmatic point that is the liquidation of the popular will, which is what the law is and which serves to govern coexistence among citizens, it is clear that we are going to generate more problems than we currently have. I have fulfilled my obligation as President of the Government, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. When what is raised by some is a referendum in which national sovereignty is liquidated, when that is debated in this House and this House takes a stand with what it did in its day, the President of the Government has to ensure that it is not held. From there, there have been autonomous elections and the results are already known. The Government is in favour of institutional loyalty, it is in favour of dialogue, it is in favour of talking; but, of course, what it is not in favour of is liquidating - as some claim - basic principles that have united us for centuries, such as national unity, national sovereignty and the equality of the Spaniards. This president of the government out there is not going to happen. From there he is willing to talk, always - we have always done - within the framework of the law. The President of the Generalitat will never be able to say that I did not attend to him when he wanted to speak to me for any procedure he thought appropriate. But when someone claims that the president of the government is complicit in the liquidation of the will... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE POLITICAL SITUATION OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/001395]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u19	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, my question is very simple. What is your assessment of the political situation in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Sánchez, as you know, the last few years have not been easy, but I think we can make a positive assessment. In 2012, Spain was a country on the verge of bankruptcy, there was a clear threat of rescue, we were in recession and unemployment continued to rise. Today things have changed: the economic situation is much better than what was at the beginning of this parliamentary term and we have overcome the serious economic crisis better than the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. On the other hand, important issues that are generating many problems and difficulties in other countries, such as those of asylum and immigration, which you know, I believe are being handled in an orderly manner here. There are also other very positive data such as the drop in the number of strikes, demonstrations. There are reasonable institutional relations, both with employers and with trade union organizations, as well as with territorial, autonomous communities and local corporations. And we have the problem that I have just commented on in the answer to Mr Sánchez i Llibre's question which, without doubt, with dialogue, with fineness and without anxiety, we will have to solve in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, on 27 September, the Spaniards expected their president to appear to make an assessment of the political situation after the elections in Catalonia. You decided not to show up, not to give your face, as is usually the case. He did so on 28 September and he did so under pressure from the media, calling for a press conference in Moncloa in which he accepted only two questions from the media. Ladies and gentlemen, the reading of the Government of Spain was clear: the President of the Government considers that nothing new has happened in Spain and, consequently, the Government is going to do what it has done so far, that is, nothing. Mr Rajoy, one of the parts of your political incapacity lies in your inability to see the solutions and also - and this is the most serious - in your inability to see the problems. [[Rumors]] Because it is evident that Spain is now facing a crossroads as a result of the sovereignist challenge. Right now, the Spaniards are demanding their Government's capacity for decision-making, capacity and will for dialogue, negotiation and also for reforms within strict law enforcement. The Socialist Party said long ago that constitutional reform was fundamental in our country; before the elections I said it was necessary, but today I consider it essential. But that reformist pulse that our country needs, ladies and gentlemen, is colliding with Mr Rajoy's political inaction. Against common sense, Mr Rajoy, as the scale of political problems increases, the more the Spaniards see their inability to deal with those problems. It would be, in some way, like that photo of the video in which you appear talking in Catalan that has come out in the media as a result of the campaign for the Catalan elections; you see a paralyzed politician, with his blind eyes and his mind blank, that is, the vivid image of political inaction in our country, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] That is why, Mr Rajoy, I say to you that Spain has to come out of its immobilism, that it has to embrace reformism and that I solemnly commit myself to this House and to the Spaniards, Mr Rajoy, to rebuild Catalonia's unity in La Moncloa and also to better articulate Spain's unity with the constitutional reform that will take place in the next parliamentary term, when you stop being President of the Government. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u26	Mr Sánchez, of the developments that have taken place in the economic situation, of my references to asylum and immigration, of strikes, of all this you have nothing to say. He has made a very important contribution that is that I, instead of appearing on the 27th, as you did, without anyone knowing, did on the 28th accepting two questions, when you did not accept any questions to the media. [[Applauds]] In any case, Mr Sánchez, there are important differences between what you have done and what I have done over these months. First of all, you've played equidistance. It has been placed at the same distance from who was defending the Spanish Constitution, national unity, national sovereignty and equality, which was me, and who was clearly challenging the State by betting on independence. [[Applauds]] In order to criticize the Government, as far as we can see, it is worth everything. Secondly, you have done something that I have not done either: you have given the mayorship in some cities of Catalonia to independent groups so that the People's Party, which had won the elections, would not govern. [[Applause.- Various Members: There, there!]] [[Mr. Moragas Sánchez: What a face! Shame!-Mr.Pradas Torres: A little bit of education. Let you say it...]] Also, in order to criticize the government, it is worth anything, Mr Sánchez, even acting above convictions, if you have them. Finally, if you want to reform the Constitution, you need something more to say: I want to reform the Constitution; you need to say what you want to reform, because if we are not going to think that we are facing a mere slogan and that you do not know what is what you want to reform, which is exactly what is happening. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JON IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT ALWAYS HAVE TO RESPECT INTERNATIONAL LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/001390]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u28	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Jon Iñarritu, Member of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, do you consider that international legality must always be respected? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u30	Quiet, please. Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Spain is a social, democratic and legal state, as established by the Constitution, and the Constitution clearly answers your question. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u33	Minister, the Kingdom of Spain, for some time now, has occupied a place in the United Nations Security Council, an organization which aims to maintain and seek peace in the world by addressing most of its resolutions on this issue. It is for this reason that you in your position have maintained a correct attitude in everything that has to do with the Colombian conflict, a fact that clashes with your attitude to the Basque conflict, where you have behaved like true ultras, like the Uribists in Colombia. Last Thursday, peace in Havana was sealed with a handshake by the President of Colombia with his former main enemy, the head of the FARC. This agreement came after having overcome both sides the difficult stumbling block of the point of justice and victims and having agreed on the foundations of transitional justice and restorative justice on which the transition from peace in Colombia will be based. This agreement has combined the right to peace, truth, justice and reparation for all, all victims, not on punitive parameters and even less vindictive, but on reparations and healings. I understand, Minister, that although all conflicts are different, this does not prevent us all from getting lessons and we are getting them. That is why we would like you too to be able to learn lessons from all of this. Mr Fernández, you in the Basque Country can continue to stop, you can continue with your own prison policy of Guantanamo, you can continue to plague our roads with controls, you can continue to act as if nothing had changed, but you will have been lost four years and we will find ourselves at the same starting point where we were at the beginning of the legislature. It is not that you will not win the Nobel Peace Prize, but that you will pass into history because of your mediocrity and lack of courage. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, if you do not believe that dialogue is the best tool for resolving conflicts. I would like you to answer me if you have learned any lessons from the Colombian conflict about peace and its achievement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well that the speech and diagnosis of ETA and the abertzale left is to talk about the Basque conflict and, consequently, about its causes and its effects. They speak of a Basque conflict between the Basque Country and Spain that you have never just defined and therefore speak of the consequences: refugees, fugitives and prisoners, which you also define as political. For us there is no such Basque conflict. What has happened for decades in the Basque Country, in Navarre and in Spain as a whole has been a terrorist organization called ETA which, through the socialization of suffering and terror, has sought to impose its totalitarian and exclusive project on the whole of Spanish society. So clear. This project has been defeated police and operationally by the democratic and rule of law State, whose front has been the State Security Forces and Corps, by the way, paying a very important blood tribute to safeguard our freedom and democracy. 350 civilian guards and national police have been killed by ETA. That being said, as Spain, as I said earlier, is a democratic and rule of law State, the rule of law is obviously not in suspense and as long as that terrorist organization does not dissolve formally, it is alive, even if it is operationally liquidated and therefore continues to operate. That is why we continue to work to locate, arrest and bring to justice all those who have pending accounts with justice. That's the point. You consider that there is a Basque conflict, we believe that what has happened is a terrorist organization that has been arrested and defeated, fortunately, for the good of the Basques and for the good of the Spanish as a whole. And there will be neither transitional justice, as you say, nor any other kind of justice than normal justice, the one applied by the Spanish courts, the one applied by the National Court, which is competent for terrorist attacks, for terrorist organizations. And you also know that France, which I do not think is doubtful as to whether it is a democratic and legal republic, also has a terrorist agenda which is the Spanish agenda. France and Spain are working together hand in hand to defeat ETA terrorism. Because in Europe, which is an area of freedom, justice and security, there is no place for a terrorist organisation such as ETA or for approaches such as yours, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u36	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON RAFAEL CALDUCH CERVERA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY ON POLITICAL REFUGEES? [[File number 180/001392]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u37	Question, also addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rafael Calduch, of the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u38	Minister, what is the government's policy on asylum for political refugees?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u39	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, yesterday afternoon I was here in the Chamber during the debate on a non-legislative proposal, and I voted in favour of it, like the whole House, and I am pleased that we were all able to reach a genuine state pact, because national sovereignty in the area of refugees and asylum is represented here. Therefore, the position of the Government in this matter, as it cannot otherwise be, is that contained in that non-law proposal, I insist, voted unanimously by all parliamentary groups, also by its own. By the way, you know that point 10 said that, from institutional loyalty, all the signatory groups committed themselves to removing the asylum debate from the political debate. I hope we all act with that institutional loyalty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u42	I hope, Minister, that with that last reference you have made you do not intend to equate institutional loyalty with silence. Look, the institution of asylum is an international institution that aims to protect the fundamental rights of those who, as a result of armed conflict, etc., are threatened. It is an institution to which Spain has joined. And the issue of refugees is important in Spain not only now because it appears in the media, but it has been for a long time. For example, between 2012 and 2015, this Government's mandate period, there have been 17,351 applications; between 2011 and 2014 - since there are no admissions data in 2015 - there have been 10,872 admissions, of which 2,485 belonged to Syrian refugees. However, these data do not show that the problem is being addressed correctly. By using a periphrasis of the President of the Government, the current Government, on the issue of refugees, is acting with an orderly legislative desire, for example, in the transposition of the directives of the European Union; it is acting with an orderly administrative negligence, for example, with procedures that are longer than a year; it is acting with an orderly lack of budgetary resources, so we have had to agree all the parliamentary groups to introduce an amendment that provides for an additional 200 million to cater for refugees, the quota allocated to us by the European Union. The Government of the People's Party has carried out a reactive policy on this subject, with the help of television. What we are asking ourselves in our parliamentary group is what will happen when the information blackout actually occurs with the applications for asylum that will continue to arrive in Spain, what will happen with the rights and lives of those people who apply for protection and asylum in Spain. I hope that the future Government will be more accountable on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I insist, Your Honor, on what I told you earlier about the proposal we voted on yesterday afternoon, because I believe that it is a non-law proposal that contemplates all the dimensions of a phenomenon as serious and indeed as important as asylum, which I dare to say right now that, among the many problems we face, it is the most important one that the European Union faces because it is a phenomenon that has come not to leave, but to stay. Indeed, there has been talk of a human exodus, of a human drama - that of refugees - that has no precedent since the end of the Second World War. We have seen human dramas in the Central Mediterranean, we are seeing what is happening now in Central Europe. If these human dramas are not taking place in the Western Mediterranean and in the Atlantic façade, it is because Spain is acting with solidarity and responsibility. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, and I say this to you from the parliamentary cordiality that it is assumed throughout the European Union that Spain is a State which is acting with solidarity and responsibility in dealing with this issue. I repeat, we are not part of the problem but of the solution when it comes to dealing with a matter as serious and as important as that of refugees, as well as irregular immigrants, on which the European Union clearly distinguishes itself; in the end, they are all people. We have also seen the dramas that have occurred in the Western Mediterranean; they have not occurred on our shores, precisely because we have acted in this way. I can assure you that we will comply with the non-law proposal and with that spirit of solidarity, constructive, open-mindedness; we will treat those people as they deserve: facilitating their movement to Spain, welcoming them and using the resources necessary to integrate them into our society, which is the ultimate objective of a responsible asylum and refugee policy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON ANTONIO RAMON MARÍA TREVÍN LOMBÁN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT HAS THE NEW SAFETY LAW PROVIDED FOR THE SAFETY OF THE SPAINERS? [[File number 180/001397]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u46	Question, also to the Minister for the Interior, by Mr Antonio Trevín, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the penultimate monitoring session and the government continues to despise Parliament: only five of its members present today. A year and a half ago, this Congress passed a new law on private security, more business at the expense of public security and more profits by precaring the employment of vigilantes. That is why I ask you, Minister: What has this law brought to the safety of the Spaniards? [[One Member: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u48	Thank you, Mr Trevín. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, this Private Security Act, as your Lordship knows, was the first to be passed at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, you maintained a dissenting position, but ultimately it is clear that if you had considered - yesterday a colleague of yours in the Senate, Senator of the Socialist Group - that it violated all fundamental rights, public freedoms, etc., I imagine that, in coherence, you would have brought her to the Constitutional Court. I'm glad you don't do that to me, Mr Trevín. That said, it has been two years since it came into force and it has been achieved with the objectives envisaged, for which we proposed that law and which were approved by the General Courts. It was a question of updating a law that was good, but that the passage of time had left it out of date for the demands of society, and of establishing that private security, under the principle of inexcusable subordination to public security but coordinating and supplementing it, would contribute to ensuring the security of the Spaniards and thus their freedom and exercise of their rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Trevín.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u51	Look, Minister, I'm worried about the 250,000 state surveillance contracts your government signed with 50 companies. Many fail to comply with collective agreements, some of their boards of directors feel ex-ministers and relatives of PP leaders, others appear in the Gürtel plot or are donors of their party. They are awarded contracts that are renewed and expanded. The system is perfect, they make millions with surveillance and you make a big look. The company Seguridad Integral Canaria is the most paradigmatic case. Its owner is obtaining judicious contracts with the Vice-President of the Government, with the Ministry of Defence, with the Treasury of Social Security, with the Ministry of Development; however, he is accused of tax evasion, fraud against the Social Security that he supervises, misappropriation in amounts that exceed 20 million euros. Of course, everything but law enforcement seems to be guarding him. In this respect, neither she nor you are precisely looking forward to it. In fact, his Government pardoned him in 2013 to avoid his entry into prison for building in protected space and, if anything, Minister Soria praised him: It is the purest concept of entrepreneur I know. He's a great entrepreneur who gets government contracts. This same year, the vice-presidency extended him the title of State Heritage, 12 million euros per year, and Adif awarded him part of the southern zone of Spain, that is to say 6 million euros more per year. Are you going to pardon him again after the Supreme Court overturned their previous pardon? Is there anything to be ashamed of? Not much. You had no way of letting most of the escorts who had protected Euskadi's menaces in the worst years of terrorism leave behind after awarding the business to your companies. This Government has promoted private education and has tried to privatize health care. You, if you had left him in Defense, would have privatized the very goat of the Legion. Thank you so much. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u52	Thank you, Mr Trevín. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Trevín had told me many things, but trying to privatize the goat of the legion, sincerely not; moreover, it is the Minister of Defence, it is not within my competence. [[Rumors]] Seriously speaking, Your Honor, as I had occasion to say during the debate on the private security bill, in Europe - with whom we have to compare - the private security and public police ratios for every 100,000 inhabitants show that we are at the forefront of the number of public police per inhabitant and the queue in terms of private security. We have therefore done nothing to get away from what is normal in the European Union, and we are still there. I repeat that private security is subordinate to public security, which is the exclusive competence of the State under article 149 of the Constitution. The current rate of police per 100,000 inhabitants in Spain is 519.47, well above the European Community average, while the rate of active private security agents per 100,000 inhabitants is 215, one of the lowest in the European Union. [[National Police, Civil Guard, Autonomous Police and Local Police]] The proportion of members is more than 70 % of public security and less than 30 % of private security. In these years, as your honor knows, we have had public offers of employment with replacement rates of 10% and this year of 50%, for reasons we all know. It's obvious that private security... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MANUAL OF ROCHA RUBÍ, IN RESTITUTION OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S HOPE WAS ORTEGA, OF THE PARTNER'S SOCIALIST GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO ADOPTE THEIR COMMITMENTS IN RELATION TO THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS OF REFUGEES? [[File number 180/001398]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u55	Question, also to the Minister for the Interior, by Mr Manuel de la Rocha, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister for the Interior, I would like once again to refer to the serious humanitarian crisis that has occurred in Europe in recent months as a result of the conflict in Syria and which is causing the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people to the territory of the Union. The European Commission has decided to lead joint action, because the dimension of the crisis is unaffordable for countries alone. It has also decided to seek a common asylum and asylum policy in Europe. The Government of Spain to which you belong, following an initial attitude of rejection and profiling, has joined most Member States in this initiative. Yesterday in this House, the parliamentary groups adopted a joint initiative promoted by my group, which we very much appreciate because it sets out a consensus view of the policies to be followed and the objectives to be achieved, putting a number of commitments to the Government. I ask you: how will the Government address its commitments to the humanitarian refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. de la Rocha. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I repeat what I said earlier. I congratulate you, I congratulate you, and I congratulate the whole House for having been able to approve that initiative. It is very positive and conveys to Europe a very favourable message from Spain as a solidarity society and host country, which is what we really are. We can hardly ask, as we are doing, for a Community policy, therefore a common European policy on immigration and asylum if we are not able to achieve it at national level in advance. It is clear that the step that was taken yesterday in this House with the unanimity of all the parliamentary groups on the lines of action that are laid down in this non-legislative proposal is a good credential for us to present ourselves before Europe and the world as a solidarity and responsible country; a country that is aware of the humanitarian crisis and is prepared to give concrete expression to that solidarity in fact and not just in words. Your Honor, be assured that we will fulfil and live up to our commitments. We will welcome those refugees with the will to integrate into Spanish society and provide our administrations with the necessary economic resources to achieve that goal. In particular, you know that we have also agreed on all parliamentary groups, through an amendment to the draft budget law, to increase EUR 200 million within the Ministry of Employment and Social Security precisely to equip it with the economic needs that require an adequate asylum and asylum policy; not a policy of asylum and titular refuge, but genuinely solidarity and responsibility that has as its ultimate objective, I insist, the full integration of rights with Spanish nationals in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. De la Rocha.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, my group is still concerned about some very important aspects. Firstly, how the European Union is going to resolve the situation of people who are overcrowded at the Hungarian border without so far agreed humanitarian corridors allowing them to reach a safe area. Secondly, there is something that affects your ministry, waiting lists. Asylum seekers must now wait up to six months for treatment. The increase in applications that will occur with the increase in the number of people that the European Commission is determining for our country means an additional effort for its ministry that will have to significantly improve the Asylum and Refugee Office. Thirdly, we are concerned about integration. There is a need to adapt the reception and integration capacity of refugees to new arrival figures and to EU forecasts. To this end, we believe it essential to have a State plan agreed with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities that includes and defines the role of NGOs in this area, as well as to determine the places of reception and subsequent relocation, the means of schooling and health and social care and, where appropriate, employment. Finally, Minister, we are concerned about some messages that you or some people in your environment have recently released and that we hope they are already a thing of the past because they generate fear and mistrust... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u61	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Applauds]] Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I do not fundamentally disagree with your honor. As far as the Asylum and Refugee Office is concerned, we are providing it with more resources to deal effectively with this exceptional situation, and there is already a credit of EUR 6.5 million for this administrative infrastructure to meet the challenge we face. There is a working group within the Sectoral Conference on Migration precisely to analyse the existing needs and capacities we have so that such reception and integration can be produced in a proper manner. In other words, we are working at the sectoral conference in the field of the Ministry of Employment, the interministerial commission in the field of the Vice-Presidentship of the Government and the Council of Ministers of the Interior and the European Council... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u63	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE PEDRO MARIA AZPIAZU URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND COMPETITIVENESS: [[EAJ-PNV]] THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO BE THE FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE ESS-ERIC EUROPEAN CONSORCE? [[File number 180/001391]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u64	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness. The formula is made by Mr Pedro Azpiazu of the Vasco Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of the parliamentary term, I do not intend to put you in a difficult and uncomfortable situation with my question, Minister, but I simply wish that before leaving your portfolio you will comply with the commitment you have made to the Basque Government with regard to the European Source of Spallation. As you know, Bilbao pretended to be the European headquarters of the spring, which will eventually be located in Lund for a mismanagement on his day of Mr Zapatero's government. As a consolation prize, an agreement was reached to fix in Bilbao what is called subsede. After a start with certain doubts, a solid project has already been defined that will allow the scientific and technological development of qualified personnel through the future construction of work packages that have already been recognised at European level and that will make possible the construction of relevant parts of the European source. In recent times the European consortium ESS-ERIC has been established for the construction of the source, and in principle Spain is not part of that consortium as a founding member, as it had committed itself and we do not know why. The Secretary of State of the branch announced precisely in Bilbao in April that this commitment would be signed on 1 July. The delay by the Ministry of Economy in signing this commitment may, in our view, seriously endanger the pre-arranged work packages by ESS Bilbao with Lund. Without these work packages the project, that of Bilbao, would be at serious risk. It is in your hands, Minister, to prevent the future of the project, in which more than sixty highly qualified people work, from being left in bottled water. It does not need to convince him of the importance of innovation, research in economic development. This project is very important for Euskadi, yes, but also for the economy of the whole State. That is why we are demanding and calling for a firm and written commitment to the future European project, which is also ours. That is why I ask you, Minister, when does the government plan to sign its commitment as a founding member of the European Space Consortium? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, as you know, Spain's involvement in the European Source of Spallation has been very prominent since its inception, since its inception, and also represents a good example of research collaboration between the Central Administration and the Basque Executive. As you know, we have been betting from the very beginning on the ERIC project, as demonstrated by the letter of intent we signed in 2014, expressing our full commitment to this initiative. At this time Spain is an observer founding member; our will is to become full members as soon as possible and, in any case, before September 2016. By then we will be full members. That is what we are working for right now, because, as you know, joining this consortium involves a multi-annual expenditure commitment, the authorisation of which is currently being managed. Once all the budgetary procedures have been completed and this authorization has been obtained, we will be in a position to complete this accession. In all this process - I insist - the Secretary of State of R & D & i is working closely with its Basque counterparts. In turn, it also implies the presence of Spain in other major consortia, such as the CERN, where we have tripled our contracts; the experimental fusion reactor ITER and the designation of the island of La Palma as the site of the installation of the Cherenkov telescope network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u68	Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u69	Thank you, Minister. I do hope that it will be signed as soon as possible, well before 2016; I would like you to do so with this Government, which I believe does not have much time left. Anyway, you know I'm insistent and I'll go all the way, at least from this government. I'm going to try with you...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u70	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u71	I am aware of your request, and you have no doubt that we will try to do our utmost to have multiannual expenditure authorized before the end of this term. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RESOLVE THE PROBLEMS GRANTED BY THE LAUNCH IN THE ADJUSTMENT OF THE VACATION PROGRAM AFTER THE ANULATION ORDERED BY THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL OF CONTRACTUAL RESOURCES? [[File number 180/001396]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u72	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. He asked, first of all, Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how do you intend to solve the problems caused by delays in the award of Imserso's travel?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u74	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Heredia. There was indeed an appeal to the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources of the Ministry of Finance, which ordered a repetition of the assessment, specifying some criteria that should be taken into consideration. This assessment has been re-assessed. Therefore, once this appeal has been resolved and the requirements of that court have been met, the new award will be made. We hope that by tightening on deadlines, as we are doing, and with the goodwill and collaboration of all, who are showing it, there will be no significant delays. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u77	Look how easy you were to improve the management of your predecessor Mrs. Mato, because she created a problem where she didn't have it with the Imserso trips, and we'll see how it ends. This is a program that started a socialist government. It had a social function for the elderly, maintains thousands of jobs in many hotels during the low season and is economically profitable: for each euro invested the state recovers 1.5 euros. The People's Party has never believed in this programme; it started the legislature by reducing its budget by 30% and will end it with the judgment of a court that annuls the award of these trips. It has done so because of discretion in the assessment, which is not acceptable, and because the criteria are not at all objective. You are responsible for stopping this program. I will tell you loud and clear: your Government punishes our elders and our tourism sector as well. Our elders are now 20% poorer than when Rajoy arrived in the government, they have raised all their taxes and implemented the pharmaceutical co-op. They have risen only one euro a month to the lowest pensions, to the lowest, and now they delay the holidays for 2.5 million pensioners who are entitled to them. When they already had to reach their tourist destination, they still do not know if they will be able to go, and this affects our tourist sector, which has been hit hard with its rise in VAT. We have the highest tourist VAT in Europe and the whole of the Mediterranean, and this is detrimental to our sector. In addition, it has jeopardized the future of more than three hundred hotels that open all year round thanks to this programme; by the way, in my province sixteen of them. There are 100,000 workers in town right now who do not know if they are going to renew their contracts or on October 1st they will be unemployed. That is why, Minister, I ask you to explain immediately on this murky matter. Dispose of all doubts about your hats and chanchulles in the award of this programme and resolve this issue as soon as possible. The Spaniards, the retirees and the tourism sector do not deserve a government as bad as this. Nor do the Spaniards deserve the insult that only 5 of a 14-member government attend a control session. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth, Mr Heredia, is that you have plagued your intervention with so many inaccuracies that it is very difficult to answer you at this very short time, but I will clarify a couple of things. The poverty rate among the elderly has dropped by 5 points in this legislature. Do you know why you dropped five points? Because we have not frozen pensions for the elderly. [[Applauds]] We've updated them every year. Secondly, tourism in Spain in this legislature is in historical records of the number of visitors, of expenditure per visitor and of people who want to return to Spain. Thirdly, the Government is committed to tourism programmes for the elderly - it is - and, in addition, the forecast is to increase the number of places and opportunities for the coming year. It is a very important program with 1,100,000 places that involves more than 10 million overnight stays, generates a wealth of 435 million and supports 100,000 jobs. Next season there's going to be 100,000 more seats. With regard to the remedies or procedures that are being carried out properly on an administrative basis for the award of this contract, what is happening this year already happened in 2011. I don't know what qualification you're going to give yourself. It happened 2011 and it is true that you were able to meet, to recover the delay that could have been suffered and to award absolutely all the packages. Despite all the delay, reservations are already beginning to be made. Therefore, do not send messages of concern. I offer a message of tranquillity: this year you will travel in all normality, the program will be fulfilled and there will be 100,000 more people who will be able to access the Imserso's trips. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANGELS ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT SatisfiED WITH THE SITUATION OF ACCESS TO SPANISH YOUNG WOMEN IN THE ELECTION OF MODERN ANTICONCEPTIVES? [[File number 180/001403]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u81	Question, also addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, who is the Socialist Group's Mrs Ángeles Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Mr Alonso, as Minister of Health, what do you think deserves the fact that one in five Spanish young people does not use any kind of protection in their sexual relations? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, the Government is indeed concerned about increasing awareness and awareness of affective and sexual education among young people. In fact, in the Comprehensive Family Support Plan we have planned actions for pregnancy prevention and in the general budgets for the coming year we have also introduced a specific heading to carry out campaigns for the prevention of unwanted pregnancies, apart from promoting access to contraceptive methods, medicines or other methods that also prevent the transmission of infectious diseases that can be as serious as HIV. I thank you for your concern, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: I see that the question has generated certain laughter. I'll tell you in absolute numbers. There are 4 million women between sixteen and thirty years of age, of whom, according to this proportion, almost 800,000 would not be using any kind of protection; I repeat, 800,000. The problem is where the Government stands in the face of this reality. You, with your policies, have bet to encourage things to remain the same or worse. You do not comply with the law when you prevent sex education from being compulsory in school curricula. Consecrating health exclusion has prevented the access of the most vulnerable young women to contraceptive methods. They are silent about the conscientious objection to the next day's pill and do not know how many pharmacies are objecting to the contraceptive dispensation. In autonomous communities such as Madrid, access to atypical contraceptives such as implants, injectables or diaphragms is difficult. You do not implement the current sexual and reproductive health strategy and promote risk situations with an inadequate policy of financing contraceptives, based on a purely financial or economic response, and thus leave out of the portfolio precisely those that have complementary beneficial effects for women. You know what you get? With the absence of preventive sexual and reproductive health policies you get an increase in unwanted pregnancies, and that causes abortions in this country; so take note. Less masks and more answers, because you to the most vulnerable young women, in a policy that I would call perverse, first deny them access to prevention and then condemn them to imposed motherhood or clandestine and unsafe abortion. We are going to work to reverse that situation of insufficiency and precariousness. You know why? Because it is unfair for the policies of the People's Party to condition the life course of thousands of young women in this country, when you impede their access to sexual and reproductive health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. Minister. The Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality: Thank you, Mr President. [[Alonso Aranegui]] I would like to remind you that the right of women to universal access to sexual and reproductive health remains in the service portfolio, which has not been changed in any way since 2006, and that in Spain there is indeed wide coverage in medicines and contraceptive methods, which are provided in the pharmacy offices with an official prescription of doctors. There are more than sixty medications. The offer in Spain is very wide. It covers first, second, third and fourth generation medicines. It is Europe's largest offer and of course it is far above other countries with health systems similar to ours, such as Belgium, Italy or France, which are countries governed by socialist parties, where they do not have this offer and have recently been dependent on third- and fourth-generation medicines. I agree with you that this issue should be of concern to us, we need to focus more on affective-sexual education; we want to do so, because it seems to me to be a government priority to prevent unwanted pregnancies, since of the more than 100,000 women who aborted last year at least one third of them were not the first time they had to go through that situation. I think that can be avoided to a large extent. Therefore, the Government considers it a priority, so we have agreed with the Navarro People's Union group to amend the general budgets so that we can focus more on awareness-raising campaigns and the promotion of the sexual and reproductive health of women, particularly young women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GUADALUPE MARTIN GONZALEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE IMPACT OF HIS POLICIES ON MAJOR PERSONS? [[File number 180/001404]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u87	He also asked the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, who formulated Mrs Guadalupe Martín of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u88	Thank you, President. What is the government's assessment of the impact of its policies on older people?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. The question is timely, because tomorrow Thursday marks the International Day of Older Persons. In Spain, with the latest data we have, from 2015, there are 8.5 people who are sixty-five years old or older. By 2050 there will be more than 15 million, more than one third of the population; therefore, this is a key and priority issue in the political action of this and all governments. The Government has acted on three axes. Firstly, in pensions, to maintain their purchasing power. Today there are more Spaniards with pension, more than 9,300,000 Spaniards with contributory pensions, 455,000 more than in 2011, and 450,000 with non-contributory pensions. Amounts have also risen. The average pension is already EUR 1,025. In 2011 there were 923 euros. The amount of non-contributory pensions has also increased. Secondly, we are promoting active ageing and prevention of dependency. He knows that Spain leads the statistics on life expectancy, but we want that life expectancy to be quality. We have agreed strategies with the Autonomous Communities to set up a system of social and health care to address chronicity. Thirdly, the strengthening of the dependency care system, where there are already 755,944 beneficiaries with benefits, which is 17,357 more people than on 31 December 2011. In addition, we have been working with the State Council of Older Persons to approve a framework for action for older persons that essentially seeks to promote this active ageing, that quality of life, which is to be approved very soon by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u92	Minister, no matter how much you repeat a lie, it does not become true. You have plunged into a spiral of lies, you have not respected the consensus of revaluing pensions and it is the pensioners who have suffered, and that you announced that you would not touch the pensions. The increase in the minimum pension during his term of office has been €42.90. The increase in the minimum pension during socialist governments, 46%, i.e. EUR 257. High and clear, Minister. The Socialist Party did not freeze the pensions, it revalued the minimum pensions year after year, from 484 to 742 euros, and you broke that consensus, they do not climb the CPI, but a 0.25 %, which means a loss of purchasing power year after year. Look at the consequences of this: one out of every three Spanish households has as their main supporter over the age of sixty-five; six out of every ten recognize that their situation and well-being have worsened because of the economic difficulties their family faces; eight out of every ten older households help their children; all pensioners are condemned to the respite of their medicines; 46 per cent of older people have reduced their health care expenditure; for every euro that has risen their pension they spend four on medicines; 45 per cent have reduced their spending on light consumption; 20 per cent acknowledge that their grandchildren have stopped going to school, and to top it off the care system for dependency when they need it most and increase their co-payments. With this panorama everyone has a pessimistic vision of the future, Minister; they think that the future of their grandchildren will be even worse than now. That's the balance sheet of his management and not another. Minister, as much as you repeat your lie, you can never turn it into truth. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u93	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u94	Indeed, the elderly make a great effort to help the situation of families who are experiencing it worse. The government is also very aware of this, and so over the past two years it has improved its purchasing power by more than EUR 2 billion, and this year it is also going to do so, because we are not going to apply inflation to them, we are going to increase pensions by 0.25 % - inflation is at least 0.9 % - and they will gain purchasing power again. That is why Spain is the country that has a poverty risk rate in people older than the lowest in Europe. But speaking of lies, who is going to believe that the Socialist Party did not freeze pensions? How can you say that? I was here when Mr. Zapatero announced that he froze them and despised the possibilities of the elderly and used the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u95	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GONZALEZ VERACRUZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT EVOLUTION IS PROVIDED FOR THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE NEXT MONTHS IN THE PUBLIC COVERAGE RATES FOR PERSONS IN THE SITUATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT IN OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001399]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u96	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. First of all, Mrs Veracruz, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, maximums, never minimums. Mrs Báñez, what is the government's forecast for the unemployment coverage rate for the unemployed in a context in which you have been ruling for four years now, from 2011 until now, the rate has been decreasing since then - that is, there are more unemployed unprotected than in 2011 - and you have announced - in fact you are about to approve - a cut of EUR 5 billion? What is your foresight, if you can give it to us, even if you can stick to the truth, minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u98	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, there is no greater social coverage for the Spaniards than employment, and that is what we are working on from the minute one of the legislature. We have already recovered, thanks to the efforts of Spanish society and government reforms, one million of the more than 3.5 million jobs lost in the crisis. I can tell you, as good news, that in the last year two out of three people who left unemployment were unemployed for a long time. Moreover, we have not only worked for employment but have strengthened social protection with new programmes. For example, the one that has been in place since January of this year in dialogue with the social partners, which is a special activation plan for long-term unemployed people without income and with family responsibilities. A plan that already has more than 125,000 applications and which has increased in what we have spent the year on unemployment coverage by 4 points. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if we evaluate the four years of Rajoy's government we would have to remember how they were generating the unemployed, mainly as a result of Mr Rajoy's ransom but also of his labour reform, and how these new jobs are directly unemployed. But that is not the subject of my question, although I knew that I was going to answer that. Madam Minister, think for a second what they would say here, if they were in the seat of this Member, the men and women, especially women, 3.7 million according to the labour force survey, who are unemployed and who do not have any benefits. That is the consequence of their policies: 3.7 million people who are being told, moreover, that they are going to cut another €5 billion, as if there were no long-term unemployed, especially women, who today have no protection from their Government, who are completely abandoned by the Rajoy Government. We talk about more than seven out of ten unemployed in this situation. Probably each of those unemployed, of those men and women, would explain to him what they are living, and what they are living is a situation of poverty and social inequality generated by his Government and by the four years of its cuts. We talk about cuts in labour rights through labour reform, we talk about cuts in benefits, we talk about the elimination of subsidies, no matter how much they try to avoid it. And as he likes to go back to 2011, I remind him that in that year, according to the registered unemployment coverage rate, 70 % was covered and today 55 % was covered. And if we go to EPA data, in 2011 it covered 37%, and today it covers 27.8%. That is the summary, EUR 30 billion in 2011, and today, EUR 19 billion not to protect, which is what you are doing to the unemployed. Job insecurity, job poverty, but... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u102	Thank you, Congresswoman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u103	Madam Member, a party like the Socialist party that sent 3.5 million people to unemployment in the last parliamentary term is not about giving employment lessons. I'm telling you with humility. But I'll tell you more. Today, after four years of legislature, Spanish society, not the government, can proudly say that there are 350,000 fewer unemployed than in 2011. We are therefore better off being convinced, because we are unconformist, that much remains to be done, because the crisis will not end until employment opportunities have reached the last Spanish that wants to work. We are strengthening social protection more than ever. We started the Preparation on a permanent basis, which has given opportunities to more than 615,000 people in Spain. This year we launched a new programme with the trade unions, the Special Activation Plan, which did not exist in Spain. And in the 2016 budget there is already a new orientation programme for long-term unemployed, between thirty-fifty and five years, which will help to get more than 1,200,000 unemployed in Spain. We don't want anyone to stay behind in recovery. What has changed in Spain is that where I had previously stopped, jobs are now created every day; therefore, with the Spaniards, creating jobs and opportunities, which is the future of this country. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MADDALENA VALERIO CORDERO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT ACTIONS HAVE TAKEN YOUR DEPARTMENT IN COMPLETION OF SENTENCES OF THE SOCIAL LEGAL ORDER IN CASES AFFECTING YOUR PARTY? [[File number 180/001400]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u105	She also asked the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mrs Magdalena Valerio, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u106	Minister, in April the justice system considered the existence of a simulation in the labour relationship between the People's Party and Mr Bárcenas, which resulted in contributions that should not have occurred and could have an impact on future social security benefits. Five months later, we have learned that a punitive file has been opened for the People's Party for these events. Could you clarify what action your department has taken to comply with this sentence?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Valerio. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Ministry of Employment and Social Security, as always, with any company and any worker, does what it does is to enforce the law, as required by the Constitution, the Organic Law on the Judiciary and article 75.2 of the Law Regulating the Social Jurisdiction, which states that those who are not parties to the proceedings must fulfil their obligations by the judges and courts ordered to guarantee the rights that the parties may have and to ensure the effectiveness of the judicial decisions. This is what we are doing, complying with the law and the court decisions that are firm. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Valerio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u110	Madam Minister, at this point in history, I believe that no one doubts that the aim of Mr Bárcenas' simulated contract was not to obtain social security benefits in the future, but to pay his silence. Mr Rajoy personally agreed with him on the terms of this advantageous fraudulent contract, as Mrs Cospedal acknowledged in court. Mr Bárcenas had already taken the dough for various work and envelopes to leaders of the People's Party, and then took it not for work, but for silence, and just until the moment he began to sing. It was a simulated contract of more than 21,000 euros a month, with secretary, car, driver, office in Genoa and payment of minutes of lawyers, but without known work activity, as the sentence says. Madam Minister, the problem here goes beyond the so-called deferred compensation, of which Mrs Cospedal spoke in a Kafkian intervention. The problem here is that we have suffered the live corruption of the People's Party and its president. Now to him, to the president - who does not accompany us because he goes immediately and leaves his government here, as we see, very diminished -, before the possible sanction, it is only possible to say that the fine and point is paid; and it remains so wide. What you have to do is take on your political responsibilities and not laugh at us. Tell him for my part that a president of the government must ensure compliance with the laws, including the labour laws, and he must preach by example. This implies zero tolerance for corruption, fraud and lies. In this case, Mr Rajoy has done quite the opposite: he lied in his appearance on 1 August 2013, endorsed corruption and fraud and now comes to tell us that it is paid and point. Citizenship is tired and will put them, very soon, in the place they deserve, in the opposition. The point will be put to them, and I wish you - and in this I agree with Mr Aznar - that it will be a final point. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Valerio. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Valerio, after your meeting this morning, your lies and your tide of demagogy, you're not gonna find me in him and you're not gonna find me anymore. He's gonna find me in zero tolerance for fraud. He's gonna find me respecting legality and collaborating with justice. I am to be found, Mrs Valerio, ensuring the normal functioning of the institutions, respecting the work done independently and professionally by the members of the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Employment and Social Security. And it will find me, in short, always in legality, applying administrative actions when they are appropriate, whatever company it is. Mrs Valerio, let me also tell you very quietly and without shouting - not as you have done - that if you want to talk about corruption and fraud you have it very easily, choose between the famous ERE, Mercasevilla, Invercaria or Operation Edu. This week we have met - and it is covered today by a media outlet - the Jeremiah case. Unfortunately, issues of fraud and corruption with the money of the unemployed and the training of the unemployed in Andalusia. Mrs Valerio, if you want zero tolerance for fraud, you should have had the political honesty and political decency this morning to ask for forgiveness - because I know you do not share the actions of some members of your party and your government in Andalusia - because there is no worse corruption than defrauding with the money of the unemployed, being Andalusia the autonomous community with the most unemployment in Spain and Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u113	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE WORK SITUATION OF THE YOUNG SPAIN? [[File number 180/001401]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u114	Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mrs Isabel Rodríguez, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u115	Thank you, President. I tell you, Minister, if you were consistent with what you just said here, zero tolerance to corruption, you would have to be abandoning the blue bank already to re-found this PP, because this PP is up and down full of corruption. [[Applauds]] The Gürtel case is the PP case, the Rajoy case. [[Rumors]] Believe me, we are much more concerned about the situation in our country than the situation in his party; that is and must be his concern. The situation that worries us about our country is that of thousands of young people who have their entire lives truncated as a result of their labour reform. You are very optimistic with the data and we want the Spanish economy to go well because that will mean that it will go well with the Spanish. But we are not so optimistic because we are on the street and we see what is happening in the reality of our country. I ask you for a moment to move away from those statistics that only serve triumphalism and to come closer to reality and tell us about that, how Spanish young people live today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, the Members who have been accused in this House are from the Socialist Party and are on their way to Despeñaperros, they are not in the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] I tell you with calmness and sadness. The situation of young people in Spain today is a situation of hope, because they came from a previous legislature in which youth unemployment increased threefold. Today there are 220,000 unemployed under the age of 30 years less than in 2011, when this government came to its responsibility. In the previous legislature, 825,000 jobs were destroyed among young people under the age of 25; today employment is growing among young people under the age of 25 to 8%, double the national rate. Therefore, every day more hope and every day working for young people, because there are many opportunities to find so many young people who want to continue building the future of Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u119	Minister, I still see you in the optimism of the figures. I am not going to give you the assessment of your Government's management, it has just been done by the OECD in the recent report we have known. Some of the conclusions of this report - not of this Member - are: firstly, that Spain has the highest rate of young people working involuntarily part-time; those who are lucky enough to work are doing so involuntarily in precarious contracts, 22% compared to 4% in the OECD. These young people's wages have fallen in recent years to 35%. The Tax Agency places it in the environment of 500 euros. This report also tells us that young Spaniards are forced to accept this type of work because it is that or nothing. What worries me most, Your Honor, is that this type of underemployment, these working conditions are creating an attitude of pessimism, a low self-esteem in our youth, a risk of poverty and we are even putting at risk all the investment we have made in their education and training because they are becoming obsolete. We cannot confuse employment with these contracts. Confused contracts of this kind with a job simply shows absolute insensitivity to what a job is. A job is that which is remunerated for doing so and which allows us to live in dignity, and with these jobs, Your Honor, we cannot live in dignity. Fortunately, today we are farewell to this government, there will be a forthcoming election... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u120	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, you recognize what Spain has changed by asking your question, because you are talking about employment among young people. He puts adjectives to employment, but he talks about employment, he doesn't talk about the young people who sent you to unemployment in the previous legislature. So there is hope. We've changed and talked about different things. We have a lot to do, I have recognized it, and I am the first non-conformist in this country, but there are three things that have changed in this legislature. Firstly, it is the first time that Spain has come out of a recovery creating youth employment from the very beginning. This did not happen in the crisis of the 1990s, when the Socialist Party ruled and where two years passed until new jobs were created among young people. It did not happen with green outbreaks because there is no job created among young people, neither temporary nor indefinite. And now, for the first time in Spain, jobs are created among young people from the very beginning. In addition, adding to the will, as we have done in the entrepreneurship and employment strategy with the social partners and autonomous communities, there are 530,000 young people who have already found a job opportunity on their own or on behalf of others, to which must be added the youth guarantee. It is also the first time that undefined employment is created among young people, increasing the undefined employment rate to 20% when it fell to 30% when we arrived in the Government in 2011. Therefore, they are beginning to change things for good and we will continue to work for the young, unfortunately, without their help. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u122	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u123	We will begin the questioning of the Government. We begin with the interpellation of La Izquierda Plural, on measures that the Government intends to take in the present situation of refugee collection. For your defence, Mr Sixto has the floor. [[Rumors]] Please, let's continue the interpellations. Those who have to leave the Chamber for some reason should do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. It is necessary to start by commenting on the agreement reached yesterday by the House, a unanimous agreement on the same subject. But it is also clear from the two questions that two parliamentary groups have put on this same issue to the Government and to which the Minister of the Interior has responded, the issue was not resolved yesterday. The differences of opinion of the parliamentary groups were evident in the debate held yesterday afternoon and these differences do not close or shut down or will do so by the said agreement. [[The lady]] On the contrary, what we are talking about at the end of the day is that the parliamentary groups have established a principle of agreement on basic issues on which the agreement itself says that it is necessary to continue working from the point of view of consensus and the search for the best solution for the serious crisis that we are experiencing. In this regard, the first questions I would like to raise to the Government through the person of the Minister of the Interior are those relating to specific proposals. Beyond the statements made in the answers to this morning's questions, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior to transfer to us the specific agreements that have been reached in the interministerial group created on this matter by various ministries within the Government. Also, on the work and agreements reached at the sectoral conference and, in this regard, how they are approaching the important offers that some autonomous communities have already made. For example, in my own country, in the Valencian Community, in the Valencian country, even offers had already been made to send ships to territories of the European Union, to Greece specifically, to pick up immigrants so that they could come to Spain, offering places in the Valencian Community. That is, how it is progressing in this pooling of goals and figures. Also, how is collaboration with non-governmental organizations and refugee care agencies, such as Acnur, Red Cross and CEAR, progressing? But beyond the statement, in relation to the concrete data on what is progressing, because the tragedy continues. And within the framework of the European Union, how they have progressed and whether agreements are being reached and of what kind, because we still have to work to close certain agreements on this terrible wound and this very different consideration between certain countries, especially those in the East, which are very reluctant to assume the asylum policy that must be a flag of defence and meeting within the European Union. In this respect, Minister, we hope that you will come up to the rostrum to tell us specifically about reception forecasts, concrete commitments, specific deadlines, areas, how NGOs will participate, how the expenditure forecast will be developed. There is a forecast of expenditure; in addition, a specific item has been created for next year, following a compromise amendment signed by various parliamentary groups. But that is for next year, for 2016, and we are at the end of September 2015; therefore, there are three months of this year in which this government, even if it is in office, will continue to manage this issue and we would like to know how the forecast for spending is going to develop, if the European funds are going to increase. In any case, Minister, we have put forward concrete figures which you can provide us with. We are also concerned about how cooperation with third countries is developing and how it is going to develop; countries within the framework of the European Union that are currently suffering the worst effects of the arrival of refugees, Italy and Greece, or third countries surrounding the countries in conflict, and I am talking about Lebanon or Turkey. How is the collaboration with these countries and what specific data can be provided in this regard. And there is a very specific issue that my group highlighted yesterday and that some group has commented on this morning in the questions. I am referring to the issue of humanitarian corridors, the routes to Spain. On what routes is the Government working to foresee the arrival in Spain of refugees who are now in Eastern Europe, sometimes stuck in front of wires at these borders? I also ask you about the specific mechanisms to be developed in the area of asylum. Some speakers this morning have described the very serious problems which have so far dragged asylum procedures and which are still dragging. The deadlines that asylum seekers have to wait for in Spain's offices are immeasurable, they are extremely long given the pertinence of the problems faced by these people and therefore work should be done to reduce them. The budget line for the coming year has been increased, as was stated in yesterday's agreement, but how is the Ministry of the Interior working to reduce these deadlines, to boost these asylum concessions? In this regard, we have asked the Government, with a written reply, how it intends to cover the post of Deputy Director of the Asylum and Refugee Office, which we believe is still pending - at least in the last few days - and I wonder whether any information on whether it is intended to be covered definitively could be advanced. As you will understand, it is important that the Asylum and Refugee Office is firmly covered. We would also like to be able to comment with you, because we are concerned about the issue of the declaration of safe countries. It affects third countries and the view of many non-governmental organizations and entities on how to declare safe countries to countries in which human rights enforcement has, let us put it this way, significant gaps. In this regard, we believe that this declaration of safe countries on the part of the European Union should not be produced in a joyful manner, without having clearly contrasted that those countries will scrupulously respect human rights and will respect the rights of those who are going there to seek asylum or at least to seek a safe haven before jumping to a third country. I would also like to ask you - since you are replying on behalf of the Government and not only of your department - about the orders, the instructions that are being given from abroad to our diplomatic and consulate legacies, because it would greatly facilitate the humanitarian reception channels if Spain's diplomatic legacies in countries surrounding conflict countries had a clear initiative on the part of the Government and clear numbers to be able to give transit visas at source to start processing asylum applications at source and thus to boost the arrival and reception of these people seeking asylum in our territory. I would like to ask you a couple of questions about expulsions, and in particular - we have asked the Government with a written reply but it would be very good if it could move forward - about the application of the abbreviated procedure under article 63 of Organic Law 4/2000, which, from our point of view and as has been reported by various non-governmental organizations, is being implemented in a pre-eminent manner with regard to the ordinary procedure provided for in the current legislation. I should like to know what the forecasts are with regard to not using this abbreviated procedure, which has less legal guarantees for those who are being expelled by our country. In yesterday's debate there was some comment - and for us it is a fundamental issue and it also differentiates our position on which the Government of Spain or previous Governments of Spain has been maintaining - on hot evictions. It is the second question on expulsions that we would like to know whether the Government or its department is at some point changing its position on what we, non-governmental organizations and many people call hot evictions and which the Government has been calling rejection at the border. We would like to know whether they have proposed to vary that mechanism, which will at least admit to me that it is highly controversial and therefore subject to various interpretations. We would like it not to apply in any case, that in any case the existing legislation which implies that when a person from a third country has arrived in Spanish territory is brought before the National Police Corps for identification and application of the appropriate procedure. I would also like to ask you - we already know that it is not the policy I would like and we know that the Government has changed its position on quotas, at least on the issue of refugees - whether the Government is prepared to consider the application of such quotas not only for refugees in the event of war but also for economic immigrants, ordinary immigrants. We do not want to make a fundamental distinction between them because they are always people who are looking for a better future and who offer their work and their effort to find it, and with that work and effort they not only seek a future for them but help the countries that welcome them to develop, and this has traditionally been so in the history of this world. And in this regard, I would ask you if you would at some point make the policy of preventing certain routes of access to the European Union that end up producing greater tragedies. I know that this very morning you have praised the policy that the Spanish Government is carrying out with regard to action against third countries; with some, border management is being outsourced, in particular with Morocco, because of the important policy that is being pursued with Senegal, Mauritania and the countries where certain traffic originated, but this capping of certain routes leads to the fact that, in the end, the routes that remain free, the routes that are exercised by immigrants are the most complicated, the most dangerous and in which they fall most into the hands of certain mafias or certain absolutely illegal and exploitative operators. In that regard, it would be appropriate to adjust and maintain certain routes that would allow people to arrive, so the question of quotas or the systematic blocking of access routes to our country was raised. And in this sense there is also the externalisation of the borders that I have just commented on; that is to say, to give third countries - especially Morocco - part of the management of the border through the construction in Morocco of a fence beyond the Spanish fence with European Union money. By the way, we found it very curious and striking that the Ambassador of Hungary in Spain, after her visit to the fence of Ceuta, praised the management in fences that the Government of Spain is doing and almost said that this would be their model for Hungary. That view is not edifying at all; I say it with all my affection to the Hungarian people, but not so much to their present Government. In any case, the externalisation of border management, which leads to the involvement of countries in which human rights are not in force and are not covered by the strictness with which they are envisaged within the European Union, seems to us to be extremely worrying, because it ends up acting on the rights and freedoms of persons from third countries who are already persecuted from their countries of origin and who end up being subjected to deprivation and suffering in the intermediate countries before reaching the desired European Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u125	Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u126	I should like to conclude by saying that I leave for my second intervention some proposals that we have moved from my parliamentary group and that we share with certain operators and organisations that have developed this subject. I look forward to the concrete answers we have asked the minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u127	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sixto, point 10 of the non-legislative proposal adopted yesterday by the whole House states that since institutional loyalty all the co-signatory groups of this initiative are committed to removing the question of asylum seekers from the political debate. I am aware that this does not exclude information, and in any case I thank you for the constructive tone of your inquiry, which I think is in the spirit of the text that we adopted yesterday in this House. I had the opportunity to be present in the debate and, as your honor will know, I voted in favour of the agreement. Your Honor said yesterday from this rostrum that it was a minimum agreement - as you described it - at least in terms of the approaches that your parliamentary group has, but that for the sake of consensus it is always necessary to give up something because if not, instead of a consensus, we would be facing an accession contract. I think he came to say this more or less, summarizing in a very simplistic way his intervention on my part. But I remain positive, that you signed that non-law proposal and I understand that the tone of your speech - which I thank you for - is in the line of not polemizing in the parliamentary debate, but raising initiatives, questions and questions about certain unknowns that development presents, the implementation of this non-law proposal. Having done this initial consideration, I would like to reiterate what I have already said to other Members who have been interested in this matter during the monitoring session this morning. First of all, we must sincerely congratulate you on reaching yesterday's agreement unanimously. As all your ladies and gentlemen know, we are working in Europe and I can assure you - without any vanaglory at all, but it is the truth - that Spain is leading, and is thus recognised, the effort to have a Community policy - that is, a common European policy - on immigration and asylum. It is true that it is difficult to make a policy compatible at European level if we are not able previously to have a common policy at state level in each of the twenty-eight states that we form the Union. On the other hand, with regard to the resettlement or relocation programmes that the Commission has proposed to give an even shocking response to the humanitarian drama that is taking place in Europe in recent weeks and months - we started with the tragedy of Lampedusa, which we all remember and now will be two years ago, and then we saw how the drama of the Central Mediterranean has spread to Central Europe - the European Union could not but respond to a humanitarian tragedy of the dimensions that we are living and seeing, because in this online world in which we are immersed, through the media and information technologies, we live directly all of these dramas and, therefore, in this global village, which is our world today, nothing is alien to us and that humanitarian drama which in the first line is suffering some countries of Central Europe at this time - at other times we have suffered or continue to suffer from other countries, especially those which are the external borders of the European Union - we are moved, as is evident, and affect all of them. Therefore, as I say, what is currently being done in Europe is above all to suggest that we need to have a Community immigration and asylum policy worthy of that name. That is why I am already in advance of the answer to one of the questions raised earlier by your honor in referring to relocation and resettlement quotas. Indeed, there is talk of refugees and Mr Sixto asked whether we were prepared to have such quotas include not only refugees but also immigrants. I will tell you, Mr Sixto, that the position of the European Union is unanimous in this respect, in the sense that there is a need to distinguish between refugees and irregular immigrants. It is clear that they have one thing in common - I dare say that I am sure that you think so and I share it, as we all share it - and that they are people who have left their countries not of their own free will: some flee - refugees - from the horror of war, terrorism or particular circumstances, because in their countries they would be persecuted for political reasons, sexual orientation or religious beliefs; but, in general, at the moment, the humanitarian drama that affects refugees is that they flee from terrorism and war in their countries of origin. Irregular immigrants do not flee from war but flee from hunger, it is true, and the two types of people have in common that leave their countries of origin not by their own will; immigrants for economic reasons fall into the mafias that trade with the despair of those people who have nothing to lose because they have nothing and that is a humanitarian drama of other characteristics. But the legal response, being true that they are people who have in common what we have just commented on, is different: that of refugees is one and that of irregular immigrants is another, and I must say to you quite clearly, Your Honor, that this consensus exists within the European Union. And not just from the European Union, because, as you know, not all the Member States of the Union are welcome, and there are States, which are part of the Schengen area, which are not part of the European Union and which are also welcome, as is the case with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland, and I leave one that I do not remember at the moment but which will already come to my head. That is to say, there are the opt-in and opt-out countries, such as Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom, which are not part of the programme, at least totally, while there are others, such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway, which are Schengen countries but are not countries of the European Union and are fully involved in resettlement and resettlement programmes. But in any case, in all of them, in all of them, it is common policy, which, as your Lordship knows, drives the European Commission - President Juncker and the Commissioner for Immigration and the Greek Interior Dimitris Avramopoulos, and the Luxembourg Presidency at the moment, with the very important political support of France and Germany - that in any case it is necessary to distinguish clearly between political refugees, who potentially have the right to asylum and international protection from the conviction that rights are not being negotiated and that these people have to be welcomed, as we said before, with the will to integrate, and irregular immigrants, who have to be returned to their countries of origin in the context of a European return programme. That's right, Your Honor; that's right. Then I'll give you a statement on the quotas. In any case, I have to say that, as you know very well, Spain is demonstrating a constructive and supportive position; Spanish society has been exemplary in terms of expressions of solidarity, but what is basically about is that this solidarity is effective, and for that we must act in solidarity and with responsibility. He knows that there is an interministerial commission that coordinates the Vice-President of the Government to which we belong all the ministries involved in some way in this matter, because it is a State policy, and there is a Sectoral Conference on Migration in the field of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security in which a working group has already been set up, Mr Sixto - I am going to the operational - where the directors general of all the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, NGOs and the Government are integrated. Joint work is under way within that working group of the Sectoral Conference on Migration - all together and coordinated - to make, first of all, a map of resources to respond not only to the reception of refugees but to the ultimate objective, which is the true integration of refugees; work is being done on these terms. To that end, we have agreed on an amendment to the draft budget law by providing an additional 200 million euros precisely so that this can be effective. As for the Asylum and Refugee Office I was wondering about, I answer. Indeed, we must strengthen the administrative infrastructure in order to respond to an exceptional situation such as that we have, because it was designed for another reality and we are already strengthening it. I was also wondering about the General Directorate of Asylum, and I have to tell you that for the past two weeks that place has been covered, at this time in temporary secondment but with the ordinary procedure in progress with the aim of it being definitively covered by a person who is a civil administrator of the State, who was previously technical secretary general of the Ministry of Justice; that is, that for the past two weeks that place has already been covered. We have also allocated additional resources of EUR 6.5 million precisely to strengthen this Asylum and Refugee Office. He was also asking his lordship about other issues. With regard to the quotas to which I referred, in addition to what I have already commented, I will tell you the following. There has been a relocation and resettlement programme that was approved at the JHA Councils on 9 and 20 July and was formalized at the JHA Council on 14 September to relocate 40,000 people and resettle 20,000 people. There is also a new relocation programme, not resettlement - they already know that the difference is that the resettled have arrived in the European Union and the resettled are in the countries of origin, refugee camps mainly in Jordan, Turkey, etc. - of 120,000 people. At the last JHA Council on 22 November - we already have four dedicated specifically to this issue of refugees - as Hungary left out of the programme, of those 120,000, there were 54,000 who were going to be in the hot spots, in the hot spots - identification centers, to understand us, Mr Sixto; they would be like the CETI we have in Ceuta and Melilla, that is - so that, instead of 120,000, in the first year there would be 66,000 people to relocate, who would be in Greece and Italy. In particular, Spain would be responsible for relocating 8,023 people, 1,896 from Italy and 6,127 from Greece in the first year; the remaining 54,000 would remain as a reserve. And for one year all the States that participate in that relocation programme, if there were a massive, extraordinary, exceptional flow of immigrants, we could accept that quota of 54,000 that would remain as a voluntary reserve for a period of one year, which would, of course, be reassigned with the same criteria of resignation that were established for those 8,023 to which I have referred. In total, Spain would have to relocate a total of 17,000 or 18,000 people who would have to add to the others so many that, as a State, we will admit and process their asylum application throughout this year. Today, Mr Sixto, and I give you data, we are already in more than 9,000, rather 10,000 asylum applications this year, to which Dublin's requirements should be added. Dublin's requirements, as your ladies and gentlemen know, are those people who have arrived as refugees but who fail to comply with the Dublin Act, i.e. that their asylum application must be processed in the first State of the Union to which they arrive, does not do so by that State, does not meet Eurodac's requirements for their identification, the fingerprint, etc., continue, they go to another country and that country, when they realize that that person has entered another State of the Union first, returns it. This year we have a forecast of Dublin requirements of more than 5,000. Therefore, to the asylum applications that we are going to receive, which we expected to receive of 12,000 and which are going to increase, we must add those 5,000. So I can tell you that this year, as a state, not in the framework of those relocation and resettlement programmes promoted by the European Commission, we are going to process more than 18,000 asylum applications, of which more than half are Syrian citizens. By the way, 90% of these asylum applications are processed in the city of Melilla, on the border of Beni Enzar, precisely in the Asylum and Refugee Office which I had the honour to inaugurate accompanied by the President of Acnur in Spain and which is giving a magnificent result to the extent that, as I say to you, 90% of asylum seekers from the Syrian conflict are doing so through that office, without prejudice to doing so in the Central Asylum and Refugee Office or in other units provided for in the Asylum Act. I finish, Your Honor, by telling you that I appreciate your interest. I am grateful that yesterday, with your participation too, we achieved this minimum of state policy, a common position with which to present ourselves in Europe from a platform of consensus that allows us to speak with legitimacy and moral authority in order to respond to a humanitarian drama like that which Europe is currently facing. In any case, if in the reply I am in a position to clarify any more than you have asked me, I will gladly do so. In any case, be convinced, Your Honor, that in this matter of the reception of refugees, of the displacement of refugees to Spain and of the integration we will live up to the circumstances, to the solidarity response that the Spanish society is proposing, that the Spanish society is offering and demanding. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u129	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the truth is that when yesterday we took part in all the groups in the House of Understanding it was to encourage and to know that, in the face of the humanitarian tragedy that is being experienced at the borders of Europe, the Spanish Government was giving an answer that at least we could all share in a first instance. We have not made much progress in this regard. It has specified in the rostrum the concrete numbers of the commitments that Spain makes internationally, but we would like to hear more detail: commitments of time, deadlines, ways in which the people who are suffering this tragedy and who have come to raise so much awareness of much of Spanish society, who have come to offer their homes, their means, what they have and what they do not have, who have prompted the Catholic Church itself to pick up a family by parish, who has led NGOs to say that they are prepared to face the crisis provided that the Government economically supports its enormous and positive management capacity; specific issues that society has assumed and that the Government of Spain, supported by a unanimous agreement, must move and make public. That is why my group is presenting this debate here today by means of this inquiry, in order to get to know that concrete data more profusely. Beyond the declarations, beyond the commitments to host the 14,000 or 18,000 people to be welcomed, what we hope is to know the concrete measures. I repeat this because I have already told you that there are territories and autonomous communities that have already offered means to go and pick up the people who are suffering this tragedy on certain islands; they have offered boats, they have offered means to the autonomous communities to be able to assume it and Valencia is an example of this. Civil society and the autonomous communities are advancing us, also the municipalities when declaring themselves host municipalities, and the Government of Spain has to rise to the occasion, coordinating all these proposals, supported by parliamentary groups. I would like more concrete action, Minister, and that not only your department, but the foreign department, should come in. My group considers the role of the Spanish diplomatic legacies abroad, particularly in third countries and in countries bordering the countries in conflict: Lebanon, Turkey, around the Syrian, Afghan and Iraqi conflict, to be of utmost importance, and I repeat it. Are these legacies being instructed to avoid, as far as possible, the tragedy that is being experienced at other borders, being able to deal in origin with those applications for asylum, which not only correspond to the population of a religion, but which correspond, and you know, Minister, to the population of various religions, even Christians who are being persecuted in those territories and who come to Spanish diplomatic legacies to receive the possibility of asylum? Have diplomatic legacies been instructed by outsiders, from the Government, to have a more generous view, more appropriate to the tragedy being experienced in granting and processing asylum? Those are two fundamental issues that I would like you to address in the reply. My parliamentary group would put forward some proposals, some may be more or less assumed by the Government, others are obviously part of our political proposal and not that of the People's Parliamentary Group, but we do want to leave them exposed black on white from this rostrum because they will be part of the motion resulting from this inquiry. One of the approaches would be the need to review the Dublin agreements, to review this real problem that poses for certain issues that affect people suffering from the tragedies, such as resettlement. People have to move through the European Union without such an important lock that it prevents them from moving from the country of origin in which the first asylum application takes place. Our parliamentary group is going to raise issues that we share with many NGOs and even with other parliamentary groups: an increase in official development assistance, a decrease in military spending, an implementation of admission and resettlement quotas not only for refugees, but also for economic immigrants. Let us point out that embassies and consulates play a leading role in granting visas and in granting refugee status. We are going to propose that consideration be given to the temporary elimination of the visa requirement for countries in serious conflict and whose populations leave their borders because of the terrible situation there, measures to promote family reunification, the increase in training in the National Police Corps, the Civil Guard and border personnel with regard to the protection of human rights and the treatment of migrants, specific measures for unaccompanied minors, which is a particularly vulnerable group together with that of women, which the Government should revisit the issue of temporary work permits until asylum applications are resolved, since if we do not leave people in a vital limbo that is inexhaustible, and even recognition of the professional qualifications and qualifications of third countries in order to promote such integration. Above all, we should share something that was said in the proposal that we adopted yesterday and which is part of the cultural heritage of certain countries. Migration and hosting refugees, beyond a often historic responsibility, beyond compromising the acceptance and development of the international agreements signed by Spain, is also an opportunity for the development of the countries that welcome them. This has been shown many times in history. The United States developed on the basis of hosting European immigrant populations for centuries and the impact of Spanish exiles in certain Latin American countries after the Civil War was very important in its development and specifically in cultural development. For this reason, the fact that these people arrive in Spain must not be a problem, in no case will it be a problem, it is the opportunity for a new development for our country and in this respect it must be considered. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u131	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sixto, I will try to be as concrete as possible by answering some of the questions that your honor has raised to me. I would distinguish two questions in relation to what I am asking myself, which I fully understand: when are we going to bring to Spain those refugees who are in this dramatic situation from the human point of view, when are we going to welcome them, when are we going to help them in all the areas they need to facilitate their integration - the educational, health, social services, etc. -? I would distinguish between two areas: that of Spain as an independent State and which, like any other State in the Union, has applications for asylum and refugee status, and that of Spain as soon as we participate in a Community project for relocation and resettlement. In the first one I must say that we are acting day by day. As I said earlier, today and only this year we have about 10,000 asylum applications to which Dublin's requirements must be added. I said a few days ago that our estimate of projections - because today, on 30 September, nine months of the year have passed - would lead us to that by the end of the year we would be in 17,000 or 18,000 asylum applications in Spain, apart from the Community relocation programmes. The figure may be increased by taking into account the escalation that has been taking place in recent weeks. There we are acting with absolute normality in the day-to-day and Spain has a long tradition in the reception and integration of refugees. It is true that, in the face of an exceptional situation such as that which we have - and we have already spoken about this - we are strengthening our administrative structure to deal with these dossiers, on the one hand, and on the other, with those extraordinary resources, in order to be able to respond to that objective of hosting and integrating these refugees. That's what we've been talking about. That's what we're working on as a state. Every day we have dozens, tens and dozens of asylum seekers at the border and in the places provided for by the 2009 Act on Asylum and Subsidiary Protection, which your Honor knows perfectly well. They are being processed on a regular basis, and I must say that the current deadlines between the application, the admission to processing of the application and the resolution of the file will speed them up to the extent that we are already strengthening the Asylum and Refugee Office, which is responsible, within the Ministry of the Interior, for processing these requests. I repeat, there we are working day-to-day and we are speeding up procedures. Secondly, which I understand perfectly well: with those 20,000 resettled, the 40,000 relocated from the first programme, plus 120,000 from the second programme, divided into a first year, as I said to your honor earlier, 66,000 from Greece and Italy and 54,000 from a second phase - because it was planned that those 54,000 would come from Hungary and Hungary had self-excluded from that programme - we have to stick, as I believe everyone can understand, to the procedure established by the European Commission. The Member States involved in a Community programme must comply with the procedures laid down. These programmes have been published in the official newsletter of the European Commission and entered into force on 16 September, but are conditional on the two hot spots that Greece has planned - one on the island of Lesbos and one on the port of Piraeus - on the one hand and the four or five hot spots - it is not clear at all - that Italy has planned and committed - one on the island of Lampedusa, in Catania, in Sicily... - being operational. I can tell you that in Spain we have already established the corresponding mission to move immediately to those hot spots as soon as they are operational to start bringing to Spain, in the framework of the Community procedure, those refugees that we are responsible for hosting and integrating. We have our duties done. I insist that this working group to which I referred earlier at the sectoral conference to integrate all the offerings of local entities, NGOs, autonomous communities, etc., so that this will for solidarity is effective - it can only be effective if coordinated - is fully operational. We cannot start acting on our own, because in the end such solidarity would lead to little effectiveness. The point is that solidarity is effective, that these thousands of people are brought in, welcomed and integrated into the figures that we have for all the States that participate in these relocation programmes. Spain is ready. As soon as the countries from which these people are to proceed, Italy and Greece, comply with the procedure established by the European Commission, be absolutely certain that they will immediately start coming to Spain. The Spanish Interior Councillors and Addendums in these countries are already in contact with the Greek and Italian authorities and have moved to the centers that will eventually be hot spot. We are fully prepared that as soon as Greece and Italy are there, we will move there, I repeat, within the framework of the procedure established by the European Commission, so that these people can come. As I told you, we're acting day by day. We have to speed up the deadlines. We are working with greater resources to strengthen our administrative infrastructure and make those deadlines shorter. In any case, Your Honor, have the conviction that this will of acceptance and integration will be fulfilled in its own terms. Spain will live up to the circumstances. You're not staying for us, Mr. Sixto. I thank you for your intervention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u133	Thank you, Minister of the Interior. - OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I OF UNION, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FIELD OF JUSTICE, PARTICULARIZED IN THE CASE OF TALIDOMID. [[File number 172/000332]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u134	We turn to the question of the Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union on the policy of the Government in the face of the injustices of justice, particularly in the case of thalidomide. Mrs Ciuro has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to begin without saying hello to the members of the Association of Victims of the Talidomide in Spain, Avite, who are accompanying us today to follow with great interest the development of today's debate. Without further delay, I come to defend the question that we are presenting on behalf of the parliamentary group, especially of the Convergence Democrática de Catalunya, on a question that we consider very unfair and that we understand that the Spanish State has not been able to live up to as it has completely spared the victims; I am referring to the people who have been the victims of thalidomide. As you know, at the end of the fifties, medicines containing the active substance of thalidomide were prescribed in many countries, including Spain. They were medicines that were dispensed without a prescription because they were said to be as harmless as a caramel; it had been patented by the German laboratory Grünenthal and soon sold in many countries. It was prescribed as a remedy to relieve nausea in pregnancy during management. In particular, in Spain, the Cortegan patent, a medicinal product containing thalidomide, was registered in 1955. One year after the marketing of thalidomide drugs began, a substantial increase in babies born with severe malformations such as shortening of limbs was seen in Germany. In 1961, it was found that the cause was nothing other than the drug containing thalidomide. This drug was withdrawn in Germany in 1961. Stay with the date, please. In Spain, unfortunately, it was not. In Spain, medicines containing the active substance of thalidomide continued to be marketed for many more years. For example, there was a medicine called Entero Sediv that was officially withdrawn, according to data from the Ministry of Health, in 1962, a year later than in Germany. But in the vademecum that spread in the Spanish state, until 1975 the Sediv Enter continued to appear with all its properties, even with the sale price on the market. In addition, German pharmaceuticals promoted this product in medical journals that were disseminated in Spain until 1975; fourteen years after the medicine was withdrawn in Germany. The Ministry of Health itself recognizes - with an official document - that up to nine medicinal products with thalidomide were marketed in Spain, and one of them was not withdrawn until 1969; eight years after its harmful effects in Germany were found. In addition, there is documentary evidence that some hospital in Madrid prescribed it - thalidomide - even until 1977; sixteen years after it withdrew to Germany. And it was not until 1985 that the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs issued an order published in the BOE of 21 May 1985 on medicinal products subject to special medical supervision in their prescription and use, including those containing the active substance of thalidomide; twenty-four years after the perverse effects of thalidomide had been detected, the Spanish State issued a ministerial order demanding extreme care in the prescription of thalidomide. Therefore, the Spanish health authorities were neither efficient nor effective in ordering the withdrawal of toxic medicinal products containing this active substance and continued to promote, sell and administer without any control until 1985, under different trade names, to pregnant women, even knowing - because in Germany it had been found - that this produced serious malformations. This negligence, this government inefficiency, has had serious consequences for people. As we have said, they have been born with serious malformations that have affected them for the rest of their lives and that they have not yet found protection in the successive governments of the State. Those born in Spain are therefore unprotected and doubly vexed. On the one hand, they suffer the consequences that their mother had taken medicines that produced malformations and, on the other hand, they live in a country that neither protects nor repairs consumers who, because of serious mistakes - I repeat - pay the consequences, in this case, with physical malformations. It is true that the former socialist government recognized, by a Royal Decree of 5 August 2010, the existence for the first time of persons affected in Spain, and recognized a period of affectation among those born from 1960 to 1965. This royal decree was a small step, but by the data I've been giving you it was extremely short. In addition, very few of those affected in Spain could be accommodated, because it required extremely expensive means of proof. In other words, it was often asked to justify that the pregnant mother had taken this medication fifty years earlier; a diabolical proof, as would be said in law. Thus, of the group of affected in the Spanish State, only twenty-four people were able to benefit from this royal decree; many people were left out. These people have been dying and, therefore, today we are around - and long shot - five hundred people throughout the State affected by thalidomide, and these people still have no recognition on the part of the State. While this royal decree recognized its existence and that there were, therefore, people who had suffered damage as a result of thalidomide intake, it gave them scarcely two months to prove that their mothers had taken this medicine. Therefore, today the protocol is closed and does not allow a person who feels affected or who may even have proof of it to be able to resort to any instance to be granted this right. Today, Minister, we are asking you about this. Those affected - a group of one hundred and eighty-three people -, as you know perfectly well, went to justice for compensation against the pharmaceutical company and claiming their rights, which we believe is legitimate and positive and that justice is taking its course to finally determine whether or not they have the right, after having recognized their right at first instance. The serious issue is that, in the second instance, the High Court has done what it has done to declare that they were not justified by statute of limitations. These people are devastated and wonder what they mean when they talk about prescription. What has he prescribed? Has the shortening of the limbs prescribed? Has not being able to take advantage of yourself prescribed? From the judgment, what effects will they pass on to them by statute of limitations? They fail to understand how the matter can be dealt with by statute of limitations, but this is an aspect that falls within the jurisdiction of the courts. Today we are here to demand responsibility from the Government of Spain, the health authorities, the government that has to protect the rights of consumers who, due to a very serious negligence of the health authorities since the previous regime, have seen how they have had to suffer these serious effects by the improper marketing of a drug up to twenty-four years after being withdrawn in a neighbouring country like Germany. We understand that the State cannot continue to disagree with these mistakes. You owe these people recognition. It should be worth protecting these people so that they feel that their State welcomes them. The next government out of the election should open the thalidomide folder. In the 1960s, serious negligence was committed by dispensing medication to pregnant women with terrible consequences. Today, the victims continue to suffer this grave error. We're not looking for culprits, we're looking for responsibilities. I believe that a social, democratic and legal state needs to give an answer by the highest health authorities. I hope, Minister, that we do not have to table the motion, I hope that we can open the thalidomide dossier and attend to these people. It is an obligation of the State to protect those who suffer damage from serious negligence, because we have the right to believe that if it is worth staying in the State, it is because it protects the victims, in this case, from thalidomide. Therefore, I leave the rostrum eagerly to listen to your intervention, because I believe that the data are compelling. I hope to receive from your ministry a hand extended and not just meetings, Minister, because I already know that in December you met with these people and told them that you would already follow it, but we are almost again in December and the issue has not been opened. Desperation is increasing in these people, they have less and less time because unfortunately they die without seeing their rights recognized by the health authorities of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuró, for bringing this concern to the House, because, indeed, the serious disaster of the effects that thalidomide caused while administering pregnant women is an indignity for the world. An indignity that would have to be assumed very especially by the company Grünenthal, which did not warn of the side effects that the administration of the medicine could cause in the fetus, and also the public administrations that then did not know how to identify the adverse effects or control the massive administration of the medicine. It is our responsibility, also that of this House, which, on the other hand, has also discussed in other legislatures different ways to support the victims. Today those children are men and women who, throughout their lives, have been conditioned by the malformations resulting from a medication that was directed to their mothers to stop nausea during pregnancy. The representatives of these people, the Association of Victims of the Talidomide in Spain, Avite, are today in the guest gallery and I want to begin by greeting them and welcoming them. This neglect of very serious consequences served to ensure that health administrations would then introduce more efficient rules for the authorisation of medicines and procedures that would prevent such disasters from happening again. It is also true that the State in Spain acted to compensate the patients affected, acted late but acted. Two successive evaluations of thalidomide patients have been conducted. The first in 2006, with a study of those affected commissioned by the Ministry of Health to the Spanish Association for the Registration and Study of Congenital Malformations of the Carlos III Institute of Health. On that occasion, 80 evaluations were conducted and the result was exposed in four cases and possible exposure in nine cases. Following this evaluation, the Royal Decree 1006/2010 was published - as his lordship has already pointed out - to regulate the procedure for granting aid to persons affected by thalidomide in Spain during the period 1960-1965, as a development of the forecast made by Law 26/2009 of 23 December of the General Budgets of the State for 2010. The aid for those affected was fixed in the Royal Decree and amounted to between €30,000 and €100,000. In addition, the Carlos III Institute of Health conducted a second evaluation during 2010-2011 to one hundred and fifty-one people. Both in the first and second evaluations, the medical team applied the protocol developed by experts in teratology and congenital defects, with a wide practice in the evaluation of thousands of patients. This experience included a course on extremity malformations by Dr. Widukind Lenz, who discovered the teratological effect of thalidomide. All the people who requested it were evaluated by the specialist with the greatest experience in Spain in Carlos III. In this sense, it was carried out from this institute which, as you know, is an international reference for its high scientific and technical quality. In this case too, as is their obligation, the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products has been providing all the information that has been requested by the parties concerned and that has been requested by the courts. According to the data available in the ministry and the information reported to us, the seven pharmaceutical specialties containing thalidomide were withdrawn for this use against nausea in pregnancy, for this indication, between 20 October 1962 and 22 January 1963. Thalidomide continued to be administered for other indications - multiple myeloma or leprosy - for more years, but for this indication it was withdrawn in those years. I want to say to the victims of thalidomide that in the ministry they have to have their reference, as well as in the Spanish Medicines Agency and in the Imserso, and that both they and the heads of the ministry remain at their disposal, and we hope to be able to improve the disposition, collaboration and dialogue with them, particularly after this sentence has occurred. The Imserso has been responding to the various requests that have been transferred to it and, moreover, as was the body responsible for distributing and resolving requests for assistance, has implemented the royal decree - I understand that with all guarantees - and has been resolving the decisions that have subsequently forced it through the contentious-administrative process, and is still in that situation. We have tried to provide support to enable those affected to have access to the retirement age at a reduced age, which is also key, as you know, to the degree of disability. In this sense, the congenital anomalies of thalidomide have been contemplated in the regulation of the anticipation of retirement. At the end of 2014, the National Institute of Social Security sent a specific circular to the provincial directorates on how the condition of thalidomide is to be certified - and this is important - and it is not necessary to be included in that short list that was developed by the Carlos III Institute of Health. In this regard, at the request of Avite, the Imserso has incorporated a specific code of malformative syndrome due to thalidomide into the codification for the assessment of disability. This decision of the Imserso has been notified to the State Commission for the Coordination and Monitoring of the Assessment of the Degree of Disability so that it is already incorporated by the Autonomous Communities in the opinions of optional technicians of the assessment of disability. I think this is the last step we have taken, which is an important step. These are some of the advances that have been made so far in the General Administration of the State. It is clear - and this is the news that causes amazement in our country - that the responsibilities of those who have caused serious consequences to thousands of people, which is the Grünenthal company, have not yet been assumed. In Spain, those affected have not received any compensation from that laboratory. When the judgment of the Court of First Instance No. 90 of Madrid was overturned by the Provincial Court, the Attorney-General's Office supported Avite's petitions before the Supreme Court, adhering to the complaint of the persons concerned. The prosecution defended compensation for those injured with 200 million euros, as established in the 2013 judgement, on the understanding that the laboratory committed an attack on the health of humanity. The Attorney General's Office, which considers this drama to be an extraordinary and catastrophic event, held that the limitation period of 50 years should be counted from the aid decree for those affected in 2010 because before this decision of the Ministry of Health the affected did not have a necessary element for the demand. This remains our conviction, which does not coincide with the court's ruling, that in any case we have no choice but to respect, but that of course it is very difficult for us to share. There is also another possible deadline, which is the request for forgiveness made by the pharmaceutical company Grünenthal on 31 August 2012, where he acknowledged his guilt and said: "We apologize for not having found in fifty years the way towards you, those affected, from person to person; instead - said the manager of Grünenthal in front of the monument to the victims there in Germany - we have kept silence. That year affected by other countries were compensated, but the Spanish have not been compensated. Therefore, we are faced with an assumption that constitutes serious discrimination for those affected by thalidomide in Spain. If the pharmaceutical company has been able to reach agreements with those affected in several countries, it would have to be able to implement them in our country. Therefore, in the face of the greatest pharmaceutical disaster and the greatest commitment to the suffering of these people who are now represented in the gallery of this House, and the suffering of their mothers in the face of the effect that the medicine had on their pregnancies, Mrs Ciuró, be assured that the Government will continue to act to help them on this long-standing road. Of course, we are open to as many actions as they can help that company to assume its responsibilities and thus to find a judicial avenue that recognizes its rights, and also to the extent that we can improve the protective or restorative action that the State has provided to them since 2010. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u138	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for the tone you have used and for the good predisposition you have shown once explained to us where we are. It is true that there is a path parallel to the claim that the pharmaceutical company has to take, but we do not overlook the fact that the pharmaceutical company needs the State of origin of the victims to have recognized them and to have access to compensation for those victims that the State recognizes as such. Therefore, with the real-decree, which is the only instrument we have today that has already been closed; with these twenty-four victims, taking into account the very restrictive dates of this real-decree, and on the basis that you have commented that you are at the disposal of the victims to help them to obtain these compensations, first you must give them this category of victim and you must give it to the State, the Ministry of Health. It would be a good thing, therefore, that we could gather your commitment to reopen this royal decree to analyse the victims not only on these dates, because it has been documented that there were more victims on other dates for a long time. In addition, you tell me that thalidomide was not prescribed for pregnant women or that it was prescribed for other uses. Please note that this was not clear to the Government itself in 1985, that it had to issue the ministerial order that I have commented on and that it would say to the optionals: we are going to prescribe with extreme rigour. Because it could not be believed at that time, even by the administrative authorities, that thalidomide was only prescribed for uses other than in pregnant women. That ministerial order gives us the impression that the use and prescription of this active substance may not be all that scrupulous as it should have been, once it was agreed and determined that the intake of this medicinal product caused serious malformations. We must continue to work on this with a proactive will, Minister. We have to recognize the victims who are. In addition, we have immense luck and I will tell you what it is: it turns out that Dr Klaus Knapp, who, along with the other eminence you have named, was one of those who detected the consequences of thalidomide on the malformations of fetuses that occurred and live in Spain. He served as head of pediatrics at a hospital in Madrid, he is older, but he is an authority and eminence that can give more light to people who today suffer symptoms of thalidomide. There are other issues such as some medical authorities saying that the physical effects these people may have may be a consequence of other pathologies other than thalidomide, but it turns out that most of it today, in 2015, can be determined by genetic testing whether it is due to thalidomide or not. We are asking you to put at the service of these people the advances of the technique, the resources that we have to expand the range of victims to demand that they be recognized and, if so, that they can access the compensations that pertain to the pharmaceuticals. The first responsibility lies with the health authorities of this country. You're sensitised about it. I've seen that you're willing to help these victims. Let's start because today we have no protocol that allows us to recognize or assess them solvently and that is acceptable so that they can claim from the German pharmaceutical company. Minister, in this struggle we are all, the Ministry of Health also has to be a proactive actor and we hope that from its commitment it will prove that at least we can set up this evaluating committee to broaden the framework of the victims, because it is obvious and obvious that from 1960 to 1965 it is an extremely short period and that only from 1985 was it demanded extreme caution in the prescription of the medication. Therefore, we are in this, Minister, and thank you again for your intervention and for the tone.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ciuro, the tone cannot be otherwise and you always raise the issues rigorously - or try to do so - and from a sincere concern in what can be worked out. That is appreciated because it is right in this rostrum to address these problems as well. Sometimes we have a lot of politicians' problems, but there are people who have problems on the street. I would like to reiterate, from the Ministry of Health, as has also been done from the Institute of Social Services, and it is also shared by the Minister of Employment and Social Security, as has also been pronounced by the Office of the Attorney-General of the State, and I am strongly against the statute of limitations. However, this is what the Supreme Court has decided and it is also important - we will now talk about more things - but if a judicial truth is to be established it will have to continue on that path because it seems to me incomprehensible the way in which this sentence has taken place in the light of both the means of proof needed by the victims to claim - that they could not have been available in previous times - and the very manifestations of the pharmaceutical company, of the company Grünenthal, which are scandalous. We will continue to support them on that path. You ask us to reopen the Royal Decree 2010 and that, in the light of the scientific advances that have been made, even since that close date - also in the possibilities of genetic diagnosis - we may repeat assessments perhaps from years after 1965. I have to explain again that for this indication these medicines - thalidomide - were withdrawn in 1963. True, it remained for other indications, but they had nothing to do with that senseless use of nausea control during pregnancy. In any case, I show myself open to studying the request that you move and hope to give you prompt answer how you can help or do that. That may help, but we have a problem with the court's position on the statute of limitations, a position that needs to be discussed. They will have the support that we can give them within our obligation to respect the division of powers and the judgments and decisions of the courts of justice. It is also important that we strengthen the collaboration and participation of the Autonomous Communities. They are competent authorities in health care and in determining the assessment of disability. It is a matter that can also be addressed next week at the Territorial Council for Social Services and the System for Autonomy and Care of the Unit, which is a meeting with the autonomous communities from a social point of view. I will transfer this concern there to see what actions we can coordinate between the Ministry of Health and the rest of the autonomous communities in order to improve the care and benefits provided to the victims of thalidomide in our country. I think you have to present your motion. I don't know if it's going to be easy to reach an agreement or not. We need to study things from the point of view of rigour, because it is our duty and our responsibility as a government, but I will sincerely try to find realistic ways to take a step further to help these people. Although it will not compensate for its frustration with the judicial consideration of the limitation of its claim, it can serve to increase the aid offered by public administrations in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u142	Thank you, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY, ON THE BALANCE OF EMPLOYMENT POLICY IN THE X LEGISLATION. [[File number 172/000333]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u143	We turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's next question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security on the balance sheet of employment policies in the 10th parliamentary term. For your presentation, Mr. Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, believe me that it has not been easy to prepare this inquiry on the balance sheet of your Government's employment policies. To prepare our balance sheet it was necessary to attend to yours with a minimum of seriousness and your balance sheet, Minister, is frankly disconcerting. Glorious headlines from the Minister of Employment: Báñez claims that the government is a job-creating machine. Báñez calls the government's employment policy an unquestionable success. We're the best in Europe. And the one I like most: Our employment policies fill the Spanish with life, confidence and hope. This you said, nothing less, last week in Jaén. Madam Minister, it is disconcerting because, either all the data that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has used to prepare this inquiry and which come from the National Statistical Institute, Eurostat or the OECD, are either radically wrong, or the Minister lies. After reviewing the data, we have come to the conclusion that the statistics do not lie, but lie to the minister. She lies to the minister to hide that, after four years in the Ministry of Employment, her balance is that today there is more unemployment in Spain, worse work in Spain and less rights for workers and the unemployed in Spain. Statistics don't lie; the minister lies. Where is the success of which you presume, Minister? Job creation: if we compare the labour force survey of the second quarter of 2011 with that of the second quarter of 2015 - and it's official data -, there are 300,000 more unemployed. Where's the success? There are 600,000 less busy, if you want to see it this way. Do you prefer percentages?: the unemployment rate has increased from 20,6 % to 22,4 %. The activity rate is below 60%. Or would you prefer to look at the quality of jobs? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Quantity no, quality yes -: we have 600,000 members less social security with indefinite contract. The temporality rate has risen above 25%, the highest in the European Union after Poland, twice as high as the European rate. Champions of Europe? Yes, but not to brag, Minister. Maybe he doesn't like global analyses and prefers them more sectoral. Women: The female activity rate has fallen for the first time in 40 years. There are 43,000 women working less than in 2011. According to Eurostat, there are 54.7% of active women between the ages of twenty and sixty-four, 9 points less than the European average. Young people: about 50% unemployment, with a rate of temporality exceeding the average; it is a long-term unemployment and perhaps here you want to assume: we have gone from 48 % to 62 % in long-term unemployment - more than one year - and in the case of more than two years we have gone from 24 % to 45 %, double. Or don't you want to talk about the unemployed? Don't you want to talk about how many unemployed there are and you want to talk about how you have protected the unemployed? It is that the social coverage rate for registered unemployed has increased from 70% to 55% and the EPA unemployed from 37% to 27.8%. Madam Minister, there is not a single data that supports your flattering and complacent speech on the employment performance of the People's Party Government. As much as you torture statistics, the reality is that today there is more unemployment than there were four years ago, that there are worse jobs than there were four years ago and that there are fewer rights for the workers and the unemployed in this country. This is the unquestionable reality, Minister. Since 2012, you have implemented up to eighteen relevant regulatory changes. The explicit objectives were to create employment, reduce temporaryity, improve working conditions and none has been achieved. That, yes, there were other objectives, the hidden ones, which have all been met: to deregulate the labour market, fulfilled; to break the balance of power in relations within the company, fulfilled; to base a model of competitiveness and economic growth based on job insecurity, which is an unjust and weak model, fulfilled. These objectives have been met by you, Minister, but not by the explicit because you have not created jobs, no more jobs have been created, we are more unemployed than four years ago and, in terms of temporality - as I have already said - above 25%, 600,000 members less with an indefinite contract, 900,000 employed less full-time, 300,000 employed more part-time, 63.3% involuntary part-time contracts, European record: 63.3%, double the European average. We have a serious structural problem with part-time contracts, Madam Minister, an exponential growth in this type of contract which creates income and purchasing power difficulties for workers. They are encouraging the phenomenon of poor workers who create problems of productivity and competitiveness for companies due to the excessive turnover of workers and who lose vigour to economic growth, because without growth of domestic demand there is no solid economic growth and there is no growth of domestic demand with poor part-time workers, Minister. The duration of the contracts in 2014 is fifty-three days, 25% less than seven days. There is no record of job creation, there is record of precarious hiring and poor workers, there is record of replacing good jobs with bad jobs. That's his record and it's not a record to brag about. You were talking about wage growth as an objective of labour reform, and you have not done so; on the contrary, there has been a progressive devaluation. Official figures are there: 34% of workers charge around the minimum wage, almost 50% around EUR 900 and the minimum wage has lost purchasing power. What objectives have you, Minister, achieved to make complacent speeches? In a way we have to give them reason: beyond official statistics there is an indisputable working reality, but neither is it to boast. Unemployment has increased, yes; precariousness has increased, yes; but what has grown the most in this country has been labour exploitation, Minister. Ten million overtime hours are worked each week outside the law, 55% of overtime hours are not recognized or charged. Beyond statistics, there are false part-time contracts, which are signed on a part-time basis but are completed on a full-time basis; false self-employed, false fellows, false, false, false, but genuine precarious workers. This is what is happening beyond statistics and your triumphalist speeches in the labour reality of this country, Minister. If you call a multinational phone right now to fix your home's private phone, you'll most likely get home a fake self-employed or a fake part-time contract with a fake salary, which charges in part blank and in part black. This is what is happening, Minister, while you dedicate the labour inspectors to monitoring those unemployed who try to supplement their misery by serving tables at a baptism or wedding. Much reality aside from statistics, but not presentable. Now I'm going to talk about the sectors. Young people: an unemployment rate, Minister, which is a time bomb for the future of this country; not in terms of welfare, but even in terms of stability and coexistence. And what have you done with youth unemployment and precariousness? A contract for entrepreneurs with worse results than the former employment promotion contract. Reform of the training and learning contract which has consolidated the figure of the permanent apprentice, and has decoupled training and employment. And what happened to the National Youth Guarantee System, Minister? Thousands of millions of euros, 850,000 potential beneficiaries and, by 31 May, you had registered in your computer registry 60,000 people; 7.8 of the youth unemployed in this country. And we don't know how many of them have received any kind of training or benefit. Only this rotund failure would certainly lead to the qualification of suspension by rotundating its management at the head of the Ministry of Employment, Minister. As far as women are concerned, we could have expected a special effort; however, the rate of female unemployment has increased from 21.8 to 24, and you can see - because you do not add much more data - in the annual wage structure survey: the gross annual remuneration of women is 24% lower than that of men, that is, women in this country have to work 79 days more a year to charge the same as men. This leads them to have almost 40% less social benefits when they need them; another failure, Minister. As far as policies are concerned, Minister, what active employment policies have you carried out? I don't know how you feel when you look at those surveys that reflect that only 4% of people who find work in this country have used public employment services. Among the top ten tools that an unemployed person in this country goes to find a new job are not public employment services, why? Because you are constantly reducing financial and personal resources to public employment services in this country. You are spending EUR 2.4 billion less now than in 2011. Do we have less need? Do we have fewer problems? Do you not know that there is a direct link between the employability of workers and the resources we devote to active employment policies? What happened to the Employment Activation Plan? We were told that there would be 270,000 starters and 450,000 at the end, and we're going for 60,000 just, Minister, another failure. And in relation to passive policies, with the policies of providing the unemployed, we no longer talk about failure, we have to talk about cruelty, because with more than 5 million unemployed, you have reduced the social protection budget by 23% for next year; with 3.7 million unemployed without benefits, you have reduced the benefits by 5 billion for next year, 12.7 billion euros less than four years ago to protect the unemployed, Minister. In short, you have no reason for complacent headlines and triumphalist speeches. After four years of management, you have more unemployment, more precariousness, worse contracts and less rights. Please take advantage of your limited time to repeal the unfair rules that you have given rise to and to apologize to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u145	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simancas: this government's assessment of employment policies is summarized in two words: non-conformity and trust. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: All right!]] From deep thanks to Spanish society, to workers, to businesses, to SMEs, to the self-employed, to the social partners, to the families who have made possible the change that has taken place in our country, this 180-degree change in the labour market. But I speak of unconformism because it is the unconformist who does not resign and trusts that it can be improved. I am a deeply unconformist and, if I were not, I would not tell you what I thought when I came to the government in 2011 - and I thank the President for his confidence - and I met more than 5 million unemployed and more than 2,800,000 of them long-term unemployed; with young people without opportunities, with businesses and locals throughout this country closing - every day 300,000 businesses - and that social balance in terms of economic and social ruin. Therefore, unconformism from the first day. If something was clear to Rajoy's government team it was that things couldn't go on the same; something we had to do to change; of course from the confidence that Spanish society would always go ahead, because we have a great society, which is the real protagonist of recovery. At least I ask you a favor: do not paint black this morning because it does not correspond to the truth and not even Pedro Sánchez denies already today in Spain the recovery and the creation of employment, and that he does not deny the deep merit, striving, committed and grateful for all of us - when you paint black this morning - that Spanish society has starred. [[Applauds]] Don't deny it, Mr. Simancas! Don't deny it! I will give you a data because above it has coincided - things of life - that we have just known the Eurostat data that say that in August, in interannual terms, Spain is the one that pulls in terms of the exit of employment in Europe. I'm telling you clearly. One in two people leaving unemployment in the euro area does so in Spain. When you were ruling in 2011, Spain contributed 60% of all the unemployed to the euro area. That is what has changed thanks to Spanish society in this country. In August 437,000 people in Spain, according to Eurostat, left unemployment in the Eurozone of 892,000 in Europe. I will give you a second fact, also good: 43% of all young people under the age of 25 who left unemployment in the euro area were Spanish. Spain continues to contribute strongly to the reduction of unemployment in the euro area, therefore, confidence. Is there much left for us to do? Of course, Mr. Simancas. You have to give the opportunity that you took away the 3.5 million unemployed when you were ruling. Things have started to change for good. More than one million jobs out of the 3.5 million destroyed by the crisis have already been created in Spain and we continue to create jobs month by month and we are moving in the right direction. Spanish society and government reforms are the real protagonists of change. I will answer each and every one of the questions you have raised here naturally and confidently because the figures do not lie, Mr Simancas. You talk to me about quantity and let's start with it. First, you are talking about employment because in Spain every day what has changed is that there is no more unemployment, but more employment. Moreover, there is less unemployment, 355,000 unemployed less than in 2011, and more employment every day. The job used to fall and now it goes back. In 2011, employment fell at a rate of at least 2.08 %. We had 14 consecutive quarters of job losses. Do you know what's going on today? That employment is growing at a rate of 3% and we have been growing five consecutive quarters. Every day we grow at a higher rate. Thus, jobs are created, 1 million jobs recovered from the more than 3 million destroyed by the crisis. The most important thing is that never in Spain had employment been created so soon or so intensely, and I explain it to you. [[An honourable Member: What about quality?]] Then I go to quality, which has also improved. First big change. I'm talking about the amount and it's good to do pedagogy because you don't read the official figures. In Spain we needed to grow to 2.5% or 3% in order to create new jobs and with Mariano Rajoy's reforms in Spain, about 1% of jobs are created, i.e. with moderate economic growth jobs are being created in Spain. Second big change. All growth is intensively translated into job creation, i.e. there is no more social, more inclusive growth. The economy is growing at an annual rate of 3.1% and employment, Mr Simancas, is growing at 3.2%. As a result, all growth is going to create jobs. Thirdly, and most importantly, employment is created in all economic sectors, employment is created in all autonomous communities and employment is created in all age groups as well. You were telling me about the young people. Mr Simancas, 8 % of young people under the age of 25 are created - twice as many as the overall rate - and we have been able to add will for employment with the Spanish Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment Strategy and Youth Guarantee, with the social partners, the autonomous communities and all the entities of society, and more than 530,000 job opportunities are already being given to young people on their own or on their own. Then hope and trust also for young people. Now I'm going to the quality. I want to deal with this debate naturally and realistically. We care a lot about quality in employment. Do you know why, Mr. Simancas? Because our strategic model of future, of country competitiveness is talent, human capital. That is why our strategic bet is quality employment, because it is good for the worker, who thus carries out his life project in freedom and in the medium term; because it is good for companies, because they thus maintain, with stable jobs, sustainable competitive positions; and because it is good also for our model of social protection, which needs quality jobs. Quality is our strategic bet. That is why, in addition to the reform, we have developed programmes, such as the flat rate for self-employed persons, the general flat rate of EUR 100 or the minimum exemption of EUR 500 to support stable recruitment. Our model is that of stable recruitment, but I will tell you what is yours, because you have history, you are not immaculate, you have history: the history of unemployment, which I have already pointed out to you, and also that of the model of employment growth. That's 1984 socialist labor reform. Yeah, they have history, or aren't they going to recognize their history? [[Rumors]] Its reform helped ten years later contracts with limited duration, i.e. temporary contracts increased from 2.5 million to 4.4 million. Do you know what happened to that? That temporary recruitment grew by 73% and left a temporary recruitment model of 30% structural in our country's growth model. That was done by the socialists in the 1980s, but they did not improve socialist policies in the 1990s or in the last legislature. You spoke to me before the interns. Apologize to the fellows. Non-employment practices in enterprises did not contribute to Social Security, they did not have social protection. Do you know who gave it to him? The government of Mariano Rajoy, therefore, does not tell me about the fellows, do not go there, because that is a great social disprotection. Do you know what's going on in Spain today? That indefinite recruitment grows every day. It fell by 30% in 2011, today it is growing at a rate of 16%. That's the reality. But let's talk about the stock. Today 3 out of 4 people working in Spain have an indefinite contract, 75%; they were 74% in 2011 and at the time of the economic boom, in 2007, ruling the socialists, they were 69%. We'll get better and keep getting better. If you want I'm talking about temporality, because it's the other way around: there's never been less temporality in the last fifteen years. Then, Mr Simancas, do not give me quality lessons in employment. Mr. Simancas, do you know what happened? That in the previous legislature 2,600,000 full-time jobs were destroyed. Do you know what happened now? That 92% of the new job created is full-time. That's the difference. I tell you more: you told me about the hours worked. Over the past year, there has been a 2% increase in hours worked. Do you know why working hours go down? Because jobs are lost, mainly with the socialist governments. Besides, you're talking to me about pay. - Explain to him a little more, Mr. De la Rocha, that wages are decided in collective bargaining. I understand, Mr. Simancas, you need a few more hours with Mr. De la Rocha, who knows a lot about this. It is collective bargaining that sets wages in this country. And I'm telling you one thing: they've done it responsibly, keeping companies from closing down and keeping the job. That is why employment has been the high priority for the social partners also in collective bargaining. They made an agreement in 2012 of collective bargaining and internal flexibility very beneficial for this country, which I recognize and is recognized by Spanish society, and they have done so again in 2015 for 2017. The rise in wages is adapting to growth and job creation, with responsibility and thinking that employment is the country's top priority. Mr Simancas, let's talk about what you want, also about social protection. In recent years, more than EUR 100 billion has been devoted to unemployment benefits and subsidies in Spain, because President Rajoy said two things clearly in December 2011: I want to get out of the crisis by supporting the most vulnerable, the pensioners, those who have always raised their pensions and not frozen them, and the unemployed, who are the ones who have to guarantee their future. And we did it by supporting with 100,000 million euros in recent years, we did it by working with new social protection programs by strengthening our social protection model, renewing the Preparation and making it permanent, which has given opportunities to more than 617,000 people in Spain, implementing with the unions and the autonomous communities this year a special activation program for employment that already has more than 125,000 applicants and that responds to long-term unemployed without income and with family responsibilities. We have done so in the 2016 budgets with a new long-term guidance programme of between thirty and fifty-five years for them to find employment opportunities more quickly, and we have also done so, Mr Simancas, supporting active employment policies, which have begun to rise in recent years and which in the 2016 budget are increasing by 10% in order to marry well the job offers and demands. So, working for the job. You were telling me that you have lowered protection in the 2016 budget. It has fallen by 8.5 % because unemployment is falling at a rate of 8 % over the budget that is expected to be settled in 2015. Therefore, Mr Simancas, we do things headily and heartily and we do the policy that adds to employment and strengthens social protection. We have a challenge, and that is why we are unconformist, which is to reach the twenty million occupied. That is why we are asking Spanish society to trust that 500,000 jobs will continue to be created every year over the next four years and that we get out of the crisis definitively or get the recovery to every stop that needs it. There is a recipe that has worked for us these years and to which I ask you to join, which is to add, add and add wills for employment. That's how we multiply results. Unfortunately, we have not had the Socialist Party there. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u147	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Believe me, Mrs Báñez, your speech, once again complacent, triumphalistic and aggressive, offends me, it does not offend me, it does not offend the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it offends the Spaniards who are unemployed, it offends the poor and exploited workers of this country, it offends the unemployed who do not have a public benefit to help them reach the end of the month. It offends you, but not me, it offends the Spaniards, who have lost rights with the failure of their policies. But you go that way. The Spaniards will be convinced that they can only expect offenses, rallies and no solution. On the data, you can look at them from above, from below, from left, from right, you can torture statistics as you want, you can go to history, to Indalecio Prieto, to Rodríguez Zapatero, to Pablo Iglesias, but the reality is that today there is more unemployment and more precariousness and less coverage to the unemployed than four years ago. [[Applauds]] Minister, dishes are dishes and glasses are glasses. Does that sound like you? [[Applauds]] I am not comparing the second EPA quarter of 2015 with the last EPA quarter of 2011. Don't cheat on me. Plates, plates; vessels, vessels. Learn from your president. Compare you second quarter to second quarter: 300,000 more unemployed, you measure them as you measure them. I say this in regret of his failure, but I say this also in response to his boasting, because if he does not recognize reality he will not be able to solve it. The failures of his policy are in CIS data. If things go so well, why is this the first concern of the Spaniards? If the data go so well, why has the OECD just told you that it has the record for involuntary part-time recruitment, twice as high as the European average? If the data goes so well, why has the European Commission just told you - here is the report - that it has the record of increasing long-term unemployment in Europe - the record - and the record of non-compliance with European recommendations to improve the employability of long-term unemployed through active employment policies? The record, Minister. You are being told by the unions themselves with which you have signed some agreements sold to drum and platter. For example, the activation program for employment, which you presume. Letter of 4 September from the UGT trade unions and the Workers' Committees: The signatories of the agreement that made it possible to launch the programme we find that its development is far below expected and we agree on the need to take the necessary measures to improve it. The trade unions tell you that, Minister, I do not tell you; their social partners tell you that. And they say it, I insist, the data. He talks about collective bargaining. The President of the Government said so again. More agreements, yes, but the workers protected by the agreements have passed, thanks to their labor reform, from 10.6 million in 2011 to 4.7 million in 2014, half of the workers protected by collective bargaining, half of the workers protected in their rights; disconnected without treaty applications, 5,000 since 2012, 255,000 workers unprotected by these inapplications. Quality of employment? If there is no discussion, minister: dishes, dishes; glasses, glasses. Evolution of the month of June, percentage of full-time contracts indefinite over the years. We increased from 51.54 % in 2011 to 48.38 % in 2015. Less full-time indefinite contracts, less quality in jobs. It's the pure reality. Don't you deny it. As social security coverage cannot be denied to unemployed people, 70% to 55% in registered unemployment; 37% of the EPA unemployment to 28% of the EPA unemployment. More still and less still protected, Minister. This leads us to a greater risk of poverty and social exclusion. We have increased from 26.7% to 29.2% in just three years. As far as young people are concerned, I will only tell you, in conclusion, that you have the sad achievement in your having to resign many young people to have a much worse life than that of your parents. And this is not an achievement to boast of. Madam Minister, I renounce to show you that you have failed. The Spaniards have it as evidence. I would just like to put to the Spaniards the hope that with a new government things can be much better done for fair growth and more stable employment. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Simancas, today the Spaniards have something they did not have in 2011, which is hope and confidence in their future, confidence in their employment and confidence in their opportunities. I assure you, Mr Simancas, that by the end of this term there will be less unemployment and more employment than when the People's Party assumed the responsibility of government. That is the reality and, of course, in the ballot box they will appreciate it. But it must not be so badly valued today by the Spaniards when the People's Party remains the party that leads the polls in this country, the majority party that the Spaniards want to build their future. Therefore, they have the floor on the day the elections are held. I have already told you that if there is any word that defines me it is non-conformism, because I think we still have a lot of capacity to improve. But neither you nor anyone can deny today the recovery that the Spaniards have led and that today's reality is job creation. We Spaniards can proudly say - and I say this humbly - that by contributing half of the unemployed to Europe, today together we are contributing half of the jobs created in the euro area. Today we have more flexible labour relations, more modern and more dynamic collective bargaining, which are the day-to-day protagonists of responsible decisions by companies and their representatives, workers and trade unions. That's the reality of every day, Mr. Simancas. We have a model that better adapts to the productive fabric of this country, which is mostly of small and medium-sized enterprises, of 90%. And we have to make it clear that today in our country, dismissal, of being the only recourse to which companies resorted when circumstances were adverse, has become the last recourse. This is evidenced by the responsible decisions of trade unions and employers, companies and their workers. You've alluded to it. Since 2012 there have been more than six thousand three hundred inapplications - last data - of collective agreements, agreed at 99 % between the parties, between the unions and the employer. This has saved three hundred thousand jobs in Spain. It is a great news of the responsibility and solidarity of workers and companies. There are 40% more collective agreements thanks to the dynamism of collective bargaining and, I insist, the good work of trade unions and employers, enterprise to enterprise, sector to sector, which I recognise. What I see is that every day you believe less in them. We have been able to create jobs and we have been able to do important things - as was said in the previous intervention - and new things in this country. Firstly, that jobs are created with moderate growth in the economy. This is a reality endorsed by all national and international bodies. Secondly, that all growth is translated into job creation. There is no growth or a more social recovery, Mr Simancas. But what is also true, and it happens for the first time in our economic history, is that from the first moment of recovery the indefinite recruitment grows. Of course I have to look back, because in the crisis of the 1990s, when the socialists ruled, six quarters had to pass - i.e. year and a half - to start creating stable jobs. In this exit from the crisis, from the first moment we grow we create indefinite employment, something new in our recent economic history. We are the second country, after Germany, in stable job creation, in indefinite employment. Here are the figures for Eurostat's last year. I'm not inventing any data. What's left for us to do? Absolutely not. I also want to talk to you about temporality. Do you know how many contracts of less than a month are in Spain today? 0.96%. Do you know how much they've represented throughout our entire economic history? In the 1 % range. Therefore, we are on average always; contracts of less than one month. But if we talk about temporary contracts of less than three months, today they represent 3% of the total contracts, 1 point less than in 2011 but 2 points less than in 2007, when you ruled and were years of economic good. Therefore, we can improve, but certainly the comparison does not favor them; it favors this Spanish society of 2015 and this government of the People's Party. He talks to me about youth employment and I have already told him that the rate of youth job creation is twice the rate of overall job creation. Mr Simancas, there is Eurostat too. In Spain, youth employment grows four times more than in the Eurozone average; that is the reality. Therefore, young people today have hope, fewer young people are unemployed than in 2011 and together, Spanish society, businesses, the social partners and the autonomous communities, we have added for young people and therefore the strategy of entrepreneurship and employment and the youth guarantee has already given employment opportunities to more than 530,000 young people in our country. Therefore, we improve in quantity, we improve in quality and we will continue to improve. You know why? Because Spanish society will no longer back down and will continue to bet on a model of quality job creation, which is the model that defends this government of the People's Party. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u151	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u152	We continue with the next item on the agenda, amendments by the Senate. I remind you, although you already know him, that there will be no votes today. These Senate amendments that we are now debating will be voted on tomorrow with the other Senate amendments. We began with the accumulated debate, as agreed in the Board of Spokespersons, of the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Third Sector of Social Action Bill and the Voluntary Bill. Firstly, in the course of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. If I have understood correctly, we have accumulated the debate on the Senate amendments to the two bills you have cited, even if they speak of different things.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u154	Yes, but the Board of Spokesmen unanimously agreed that, as they had been discussed together, they would also be discussed together.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u155	The assessment of my parliamentary group can be done succinctly, Mr President. As one expert in Canon Law would say, neither of these two bills have amendments and, indeed, the Senate could not use the epic and amend them. We are in what Cayo Lara has mentioned to me this morning as a situation of liquid politics, that is to say, of weak politics, of low rigour, so I use his expression, I borrow it from him. We are faced with two paradigmatic laws of liquid politics that are being practiced by these institutions that we represent Senators and ourselves in recent times. Two laws not consensual with the sector concerned, two laws even contradictory with the positions of the sector concerned and two laws that invade autonomous powers unequivocally. It should be noted, Mr President, that in order for the Spanish Parliament to be able to legislate on this matter, it has had to resort to an enabling competition title which is inappropriate for the legislative institution we represent, Article 149.1.1(a) of the Constitution, which is not a title conferring powers but what we could call a higher value of the legal system as a precept guaranteeing equality between all citizens. The case law of the Constitutional Court itself has already made it clear that legislative powers cannot be conferred on the General Courts of the State using this jurisdictional title provided for in article 149.1.1.a If not, read your honors - those who have an interest in these important laws - what is provided for in the basis 104 of the ruling of the Constitutional Court 30/2010. It is very eloquent but there are many rulings of the Constitutional Court that do not print - because they cannot be printed - to article 149.1.1.a the enabling title of legislative powers to this institution. Moreover, autonomous and outsourced powers are being violated in the case of Euskadi. In a debate that you did not see because it was only broadcast by Basque television ETB1 and in Basque I heard the President of the People's Party in Euskadi, Arantza Quiroga, say that it was false that we were living in a process of re-centralisation. Here we have two examples of a clear and clear refocusing of competences. They are violating the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community in the field of social assistance in the two laws, in the one provided for exclusively, and not conditioned either by the framework legislation or by the basic legislation, by the high inspection of the State or by the computer principles of the economy. It is a pure, clean exclusive competence provided for in Article 10.12 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. This precept is being emptied of content through the regulation of these two bills. But not only that, but two important provisions are also being violated insofar as, in the case of Euskadi, these powers are of a non-partisan nature. Since it is of a foral nature, the first additional provision, which enshrines Basque historical rights in the Constitution itself, and the single additional provision of the Statute of autonomy, which re-enshrines them, is being devalued. From this perspective, we express our concern and concern about the degradation of reference elements as important for Euskadi's connection with the Spanish State as is his own forality, which is emptied as long as we are talking about outside competences in both. Not only are constitutional jurisprudence being violated, but also the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, Mr. President. The Fourth Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative Court of the Supreme Court, in May of this year, has already declared null and void the entire policy of subsidies in relation to the draft law of the third sector of social action. However, despite the declaration of nullity of the judgment of the Supreme Court cited above, this structure of subsidies is incorporated into the draft law that we are currently debating and that is being done in a malicious manner, it is being done intentionally; it is intentionally and painfully contradicting what the Supreme Court has provided for in the matter of subsidies. If it were done out of ignorance, it would be much worse, then we would be faced with a real situation of non-liquid politics, rather than liquid, Mr President, I would not even know how to qualify it. Finally, with regard to the voluntary law, I must say that, in case there are few of the above-mentioned competitive abuses, one of a functional nature is affected, which is truly paradigmatic of the Jacobin vision of the State and of the centralizing vision of the State owned by the People's Group and the People's Party to which this group so dignifiedly represents. Competence is linked in article 2 of the law of volunteering to the fact of volunteering. Article 2 provides that this law shall apply to voluntary persons, to the addressees of voluntary action. How can a kind of conversion of volunteer volunteering action be made by providing it with an attractive insight sufficient to violate all policies that can be competitively autonomous and in relation to which voluntary associations are working? The link must necessarily be voluntary in relation to the activity carried out, which can be State-wide, but also autonomous, local and also outside. This article 2, with this enormous and extraordinary expansionary view, violates not only the material content of the constitutional precepts or constitutional provisions provided for in articles 149 and 148, but also articles such as 10.12 and other homonyms of other autonomous statutes and outlaws, such as the one I have already mentioned, which are enshrined in the first additional provision of the Constitution and, in the case of Euskadi, in the single additional provision of this Statute. To disassociate the competence of volunteerism from that activity in respect of which volunteerism is working or is linking its efforts, its development and its spirit of solidarity, giving the volunteer as an attractive visual concept to make improperly competent this institution, is a real challenge. As I said, this is not going to have an amendment in the Senate because, again reproducing what a canonist would declare, this law has no amendment, and it has not actually been amended. We will see how the question is resolved; it will have to be resolved in some area. The case law of the Constitutional Court - I have already mentioned it, I have already glossed it - does not support the legislative capacity of this Parliament, at least at the levels reached in these two bills. We will see whether, when appeals are brought before the Constitutional Court - which will surely be brought - the Constitutional Court maintains the criterion it has maintained so far. I doubt it, Mr President, but I am not going to talk about the Constitutional Court because I do not want to penetrate the most liquid part of Spanish politics. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on both laws, that of the third sector and that of volunteering, comes back to us after having passed through the Commission, the plenary and then the Senate. At the time we met both with the third sector platform and with the volunteer platform and, contrary to what has been said, they had quite a lot of support from each of the sectors, they had been sued and, moreover, they had been quite consensual with them, both sectors moved us a series of specific amendments that they wanted to add to the subject of drafting the law in an original way. When we finally discuss them and pass through the Senate, they come back with two amendments, which we have already announced that our group will vote in favour. One of them, with regard to the volunteer platform, specifies a demand that has been transferred to us by volunteering, which was that when they took a permit to go abroad this fact could be recognized so that when they were in a stock market situation they would not lose the ability to return to work. We consider this nuance to be correct. With regard to the third sector platform, we are somewhat drawn to our attention, and we have already said so in the relevant debate. There was a 2013 report that said that the difference in grants given to entities between a socialist government and a PP government was quite striking and that was sometimes given quite discretionaryly. Putting these subsidies in this part in the amounts in which it has been made reflects this discretion. But in view of the fact that if this is not done in this way they would not really have any subsidies, neither can we oppose this amendment. Therefore, as I mentioned earlier, we will be voting in favour of these two amendments from our group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u159	Thank you, President. Already in the previous debates in this House and also in the debate in the Senate we have made clear our opposition to the approach of both the law of the third sector of social action and that of volunteering. And we maintain that critical position, among other things, because it leaves out of the sector social initiative cooperatives and integration companies, it closes the participation of other actors different from the third sector platform in the commission of civil dialogue, it leaves out institutions like the third Catalan sector, not negligible and they have demonstrated a clear commitment to the defence of people and situations of vulnerability. In fact, the amendment that comes from the Senate, as the spokesman for UPyD said now, is voted in favour because they need the subsidies that are administered. We understand, however, that it is always curious and perverse that the processing of a law is used to directly award subsidies to entities. It's not the procedure, it's not the procedure. He's perverse, that's all. By entering into other aspects, the award and the fixing of quantities demonstrates the discretion because entities such as the third Catalan sector are left out. This sector, which is comprised of the platform and 6,800 entities representing 2.8% of Catalan GDP, has 102,000 people engaged, 300,000 volunteers work in the environment of these more than 6,000 entities and work and act on over 2,100,000 recipients. If this is to stay out of this law, this law is a mistake. It cannot be, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, that 102,000 people hired, 300,000 volunteers, more than 6,000 entities representing the third Catalan sector remain absolutely outside the application of this law as to the different resources to which they can access. The law creates a status of collaborating entities of the General Administration of the State, which may lead in the future to a greater centralization in the distribution of resources from the State to the detriment of entities operating mainly at the local and autonomous level. I have just given you the reflection that I see what I have just said to you. In addition, there is a glaring element. The organization of the regulatory framework may hinder the territorialization of funds from 0.7 of the personal income tax. Catalonia, like the Basque Country, is a clear example with exclusive competence, and you with this law violate the rulings of the Constitutional Court and pass them through the lining. [[Rumors]] You, who are advocates of the application of the laws, pass through the lining the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Certainly, I'm sorry. It's the way you have to act. The exclusive powers set out in article 149.1 of the Constitution make it clear to the public that this law will be amended either by the next Government or by a ruling of the Constitutional Court. The bill also does not resolve historical demands of the sector as are the necessary legislative amendments - we can talk about the debates on the VAT Act, the Public Sector Contracts Act, the Subsidies Act, the Corporation Tax Act, tax incentives and sponsorship legislation, public utility legislation, etc. -. On the volunteer bill, I want to talk about two basic aspects. First, there is once again an invasion of competence to the autonomous communities that apply their status, Catalonia and the Basque Country as clear examples. Once again, the policy of recentralisation is very clear by the Group of the European People's Party. Secondly, we have already warned - we opposed it at the time - that volunteering cannot involve the amortization or replacement of jobs. The role of collaboration with companies or with the public administration itself should help to make clear where the work space is strictly, professionally, and that of volunteering. This ambiguity is detrimental to the role of the conception of volunteerism and of the different entities. We will therefore maintain our global opposition to the laws that come back from the Senate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to say to you that you are reviewing your strategy because what you have been doing - I have given you the example of the third Catalan sector - violates the rulings of the Constitutional Court and then has an impact on the political credibility of the citizens. Just over seventy-two hours ago, Catalan society gave the People's Party a clear and compelling response, in its own way... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u160	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u161	The citizens of Catalonia have given the People's Party a very clear answer to the violation of the rulings of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, to which you constantly appeal, gave the Generalitat of Catalonia the right and strengthened its powers, but you have passed it through the lining. The citizens of Catalonia have given them the answer they deserve and will soon be given by the citizens of the rest of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unity, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. These two bills, which we have discussed in detail and which Mr Olabarria has been able to define very clearly as liquid legislation, are now coming to an end. We conclude with a third sector law that will create a legal framework for the third sector at the state level, but that does not solve any of the real problems it has: taxation issues and how small entities are faced with more tax obligations than a year ago; the absence of a sponsorship law; the existence of a general grant law, which continues to make it impossible for the associative fabric to function properly; the absence of responsible public procurement development in a serious way; the absence of active employment policies specifically designed for the third sector; and the problems of government debts with the third sector resulting from subsidies that continue to remain unresolved. These real problems of the associative fabric this bill does not solve them. It is a liquid legislation that can frame speeches that can be hung in offices, but that will not be useful for civil society. What is this bill going to be useful for? It will be useful for an issue where there is a consensus between the Government group and the main opposition group, trying to shield - contrary to the Constitution - the possibility that the State will continue to grant subsidies in areas of exclusive competence of the autonomous communities. That is the fundamental claim of this bill both in its origin and in the amendments that were introduced in the process of the Congress of Deputies and in a scandalous way - I would say a bit rude - in the amendment introduced in the Senate that is going to vote today in plenary. This amendment is the result of the annulment by the Supreme Court of Royal Decree-Law 535/2013 of subsidies to entities in the third sector of the state. I assume that your ladies and gentlemen - at least the rapporteurs of this bill - will have read the Supreme Court's ruling, which is, by the way, magnificent. It is very clear because it is reaffirmed - as it cannot be otherwise - in the case law of the Constitutional Court that, in those matters which are the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities such as social assistance, the State can put money, resources, but cannot manage them, and must go on to enlarge the arks of the autonomous communities so that they, in application of their exclusive competence, can distribute them to the entities which in the territories resolve, meet social needs. The Supreme Court is very clear, as is the Constitutional Court; there is no discussion about that. Among other things, in the field of doctrine the limits of spending power are known. The State has the capacity to spend, but in what is not competent it cannot manage. The Government refused to recognize the rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and solutions to the failure to comply with the rulings were being invented in law fraud. A new regulation of subsidies of 0.7 has been invented, and when the Constitutional Court pronounces it will fall. So much so that even a few days ago a draft royal decree-law was published in which a non-contributory social security benefit was invented to meet social needs through subsidies to this third sector; it is surprising, unprecedented. The Social Security technique has never been designed to provide subsidies to third-sector entities. Moreover, the Supreme Court's own ruling mentions how the Constitutional Court defines social assistance, making it very clear that this type of action cannot be part of social security because social assistance is one that responds to specific social needs outside the scope of social security coverage. To solve the understatement, you solve life to state-level platforms. Out of respect for these entities, out of respect for the people who are going to benefit from these programmes, my group is not going to reject this amendment, but we are going to abstain. You must understand once and for all that or comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, the rulings of the Supreme Court, which are consistent with the constitutional doctrine and the division of competences in this matter, or your policy will only create uncertainty, insecurity in the entities of the third sector and weakness of the social protection programmes that these entities are developing. There is no alternative but to do so; the other alternative is to remain settled in the ongoing conflict in this area, in which the courts have been giving reason to the Government of the Generalitat. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Catalan position - not from the position of Democratic Convergence strictly, also from the position of Democratic Union, Initiative per Catalunya-Esquerra Unita i Alternativa, Esquerra Republicana, and in Catalonia also from the position of the Socialist Party and even at some moments of her colleague Sánchez - Camacho - a political agreement has been proposed that respects that constitutional mandate, in addition to those rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and that avoids conflictivity. My group today reaffirms that the judgments give us the reason, the powers give us the reason and that you must get off the donkey and be able to open up the political solution in order to avoid further harm to the entities in the third sector. Look, this week we are going to discuss in express processing that rudeness that the reform of the Constitutional Court entails in order to avoid the violation of the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Surely it would be up to you - Mr Rajoy, Minister Alonso, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs - to apply that harmful bill, that law, perhaps, because you are systematically failing to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court in this matter. It's very unfortunate. This bill is a bad bill, it does not solve the issues of the third sector and it further hinders the management of a political issue that you have been dealing with in a harmful way. Finally, with regard to the Volunteer Law, the parliamentary procedure has better resolved the issues related to competition - it has done so in the process of Congress - but we will have a very confusing law, because the specific mandates on which this law is made have been incorporated without prejudice to the exclusive competences of the autonomous communities in the field of volunteering, respecting their own laws, but at the same time it develops with a level of detail and interventionism in the field of volunteering that will generate confusion and controversy. My group would have preferred the Voluntary Law that existed since 1995, because it was a law of minimums that allowed each autonomous community to develop its own model of volunteering, because it has been peaceful in its own use, although it needed some kind of adaptation to the changes that have taken place in these nearly twenty years. We are faced with an extremely interventionist law - I repeat, extremely interventionist - that enters into details of issues that make no sense that the state regulation is capable of developing, and that moreover, from the Catalan point of view clashes with the model of volunteerism that was precisely approved in Parliament before the end of the legislature. It is a model of volunteerism more confident in the initiative of society, less supportive of regulation and more convinced that the entities, the initiatives of civil society have the capacity to self-organize without State legislation being to interfere in what is proper to a social entity. They are different models, we are different countries; our law responds more to the model of Catalan society, to the model that Catalan volunteerism demands. It will pose a problem the validity of this law to the extent that it will generate confusion, I insist. These are two bills that I don't think are going into history. I am sure that in the next parliamentary term the new majorities that will be in this House will have to change in order to respect the Constitution, the statutes and to be really useful to civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pérez Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. The two draft laws that are being finalized today have, as has already been said here, a common denominator: they are laws expected by the respective sectors of volunteering and the third sector. The latter, moreover, the third sector, has been demanding a specific regulatory framework for a long time, and it coincides with the approaches already expressed in this forum on another occasion by my parliamentary group and my party, although we do not believe that this is the law that the third sector needs - it has become apparent in other interventions that have taken place here - or that which the Socialist Parliamentary Group would have done. However, this return from the Senate - due to circumstances that have already been explained here by some groups and the lack of forecasting by the executive itself - is an opportunity to thank once again the organizations of the third sector of social action and those of volunteering - by the way they accompany us in the rostrum - for their commendable work and their efforts to help achieve a better society. From here once again we want to convey our recognition and admiration and, as always, our full support. We therefore welcome the processing of these projects, but the joy of our group, of the Socialist Group, comes so far to the fact that they have been processed, and unfortunately it does not go beyond that. It does not go further because, as has already been said, we believe that the opportunity to really focus on improving the scope of action of both third sector and voluntary bodies has been lost. It is a missed opportunity because of its limited content, its null ambition, its weak capacity to influence the practice, in reality, in the day-to-day life of entities that are ultimately dedicated to working for the common good. It is true and to be grateful that some amendments from my group and the other opposition groups were accepted or fucked in the previous process, before they arrived in the Senate; however, little has been done quantitatively, little has been done. Amendments with more concrete and ambitious content were rejected. Since there is no time to dwell on specific aspects, I will mention one that is repeated in both cases and that knows that it has been the obsession of my group, of my group's rapporteurs, that are essential when it comes to positioning us; this is the provision that says: The measures included in this law - in these laws, because it says so in both - will not be able to increase public spending. As you will understand, without a euro more than putting on the table, it is impossible to carry out any of the proposals contained in the law itself and will not serve to change reality. Well, the frame is there, we're positive, it's come all this way. Today, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendments that come from the Senate, which is what is now being debated here, my group will vote in favour of what has been incorporated into the third sector project. We will do so because, although we do not share what is being done and the nominative subsidies, we are aware that at this point - I remember that the sentence that Mr Campuzano was talking about when we were closing this debate in the Commission - the consequences of doing nothing would be fatal for the sector, because the budget line would be lost and the main damage would be the citizenship; Mr Campuzano, the entire citizenship of this country, that of Sant Boi de Llobregat and that of Azuaga, the whole citizenship, and more specifically those most vulnerable groups that have suffered enough with the policies of this government. Even if that were the only reason, I encourage you to support this initiative in the end. Mr Campuzano, of course, I have to give you the reason that this is an issue that should have been resolved in a different way, with more rigour, with more debate, with dialogue, with negotiation, with more time, among other things, and with the participation of all the actors involved. All this, unfortunately, has been absent from the political scene by some causes or by others. With regard to the amendment that has been incorporated in the Senate into the volunteer bill, my group understands - it understood from the beginning, and you know it - that it is neither the time nor the place - this law - nor are the forms. Why not an amendment to the Statute of the Cooperator? Why not for other collectives: psychologists, firefighters and a long and so on? Why without dialogue and without agreeing with those who have competence in the autonomous communities for this amendment that we are debating today? We agree with the regulation of the permission of the staff of the National Health System to work in health emergencies, which is what the amendment that is coming to Congress today is about; but we would also like it to exist for other groups, and we do not think it appropriate to do so in this law or how it has been done. In establishing such regulation, among other things, something will have to be said by the autonomous communities and the representatives of those workers, I believe. Does it not seem to you, Mr Campuzano, after hearing you here in the rostrum a few moments ago, somewhat strange - in this I give Mr Olabarría the reason - that whoever delights us with competitive arguments, harassment of the powers of Catalonia, compliance with judgments and a long series of lack of dialogue and non-compliance, is precisely the group responsible - yours - that we are seeing this amendment here today? This amendment is yours, and it is going to force all the autonomous communities that have not participated in this subject, but that also have the competence - it is yours, but also Andalusia, the extreme, the Castilian-Manchega and others - to have to amend its legislation. If you are the proponents and if you decide what interests us all, fantastic; if you do others, no. We are going to vote against this amendment. It does not seem appropriate to us that it has not been done with dialogue, consulting the Autonomous Communities; what I am surprised is that you are the authors of the amendment, that you also have sex with and compromise with the People's Group, because if you are the ones who determine what the rest of us should do, it seems great to you, but when others decide it, it seems frankly fatal to them. You yourselves violate the argument that you used a moment ago in this very rostrum with the amendment of the third sector, in which you have long stopped, with this amendment to the Volunteer Law. A little congruence wouldn't hurt them there and here either. They cannot now force all autonomous communities to change their relationship with statutory staff, civil servants and health personnel. I therefore appeal once again to the social and political dialogue and to the so-called participation in this parliamentary term. I believe that the next one will give us an opportunity to do things better than this one, so we believe that the basis for progress is conciliation and we are going to vote against this amendment. When such matters happen, one must be congruent in everything. If we respect the competences of autonomy for some things, we must respect them for all. I understand that things like Sunday happen later, and no one knows what you're up to. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs Pérez Dominguez. For the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not, of course, speak to you from this rostrum about the results of the Catalan elections. As I have seen you all have won, if I have to congratulate you, I congratulate you all, because you too consider yourself a winner. [[Applauds]] I'm not going to talk about Todorov and Bauman, who were talking about that liquid, solid society. I'll tell you about the real society, if I may, Mr. Olabarría. Of course, I am not going to tell Mr. Campuzano to fall from a donkey, but for the first time Mr. Campuzano has fallen from a horse, like Saint Paul, and today he has told us about the respect for sentences, the legal insecurity that means not complying with the laws. I am glad that you recognize it and that you have fallen off the horse, that you carry it out and that you also apply that enforcement of judgments and the law to Catalonia. [[Applauds]] I am going to refer to the real society, to the more than 636,000 jobs given by the third sector, to more than 30,000 third sector entities in Spain, which account for 2% of gross domestic product; I am going to refer to the fact that if we do not approve this amendment, as you know, Mr Campuzano, many jobs, thanks to your proposal, will be unemployed. You know why? Because this amendment is for current expenditure, it is not for territories. Mr Campuzano, we are not here to talk about solidarity in Catalonia, but about solidarity throughout Spain, of all the Spaniards and of all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I have to remember here that we have passed a law which, precisely if anyone can be considered the author, the driving force, to which we really have to be grateful is the third sector itself, because they have proposed to this Government and to the groups, to the Socialist Group and to the People's Group, to carry forward this bill. It was them, but you're gonna turn your back on them again today. You can come to this rostrum and demagogy with Catalonia, Spain... Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards, all the Spaniards, with 0.7% - which you like - we have financed more than one hundred and forty-four entities in Catalonia, for the cross that the Spaniards put in their income statement. To come to make now a debate of a law in code of Catalonia or Spain is to reduce it to absurdity, because this law is of the whole third sector, because it applies to all entities that have a supra-autonomy, a national competence. Since the beginning of this legislature, the Government of Spain has distributed more than € 630 million among third sector entities. It's a very significant amount. When we arrived at the Government we had to face, with the payment of the Plan to suppliers, 3 billion euros for the entities of the third sector, because they were engaged in the possibility of closing and firing people, instead of doing such intense work every day. We are talking not only about jobs but about millions of Spaniards who have the vocation of service from getting up until they sleep, a vocation to help others, people who are in difficulty. Today we owe this law precisely to them and must leave here with the greatest possible support and consensus, because we are talking about people in difficulty, who need our help, because where the State does not arrive precisely these volunteers and those entities. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the Group of the European People's Party we cannot bow down, because the general state budget for 2016, which we have just approved, accounts for 53.5% of social expenditure, EUR 4.9 billion more for social expenditure than in 2011, the year of the last budget of the socialist government. Today we cannot wrinkle because, as the minister has said, of every two people who leave unemployment in Europe, one leaves unemployment in Spain; that, creating employment, is the best social policy. I am sorry today that those who are going to vote against the Senate amendment, which tried to put into check the welfare state and the work done by the third sector entities, will vote against, for example, that the Spanish Red Cross is given 1,400,000 euros; that Caritas Spain is given more than 800,000 euros; that the platform of social action NGOs is given more than 652,000 euros; that the child platform is given 1,133,000 euros; that volunteerism is given 442,000 euros... [[The lady]] Yes, Mr. Campuzano, they all have names and they all have people who work in those entities, the entities of persons with disabilities, Cermi, Down syndrome, rare diseases, brain damage, multiple sclerosis... They are all reflected in that amendment. If they were not given this money and this subsidy - which, by the way, meets the requirements - they would be busy not being able to do the social work and everything they are working in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, be proud. I thank the Socialist Party, UPyD, all those who are going to vote in favour, on behalf of all the platforms that, thanks to this amendment - despite the check in which they have tried to put Convergence and the government of Artur Mas at the time to the entities of the third sector of Spain - will be able to survive, and many people who are going through difficulties and with whom they are doing a great job, will go ahead. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Grau has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. I can't start my speech without congratulating my partner. He has made a frankly fabulous intervention in his tonic. Congratulations. I rise again to this rostrum, on behalf of my group, to whom I am grateful for the confidence placed, to defend the draft law on volunteerism in its last parliamentary procedure. First of all, I would like to thank the third sector entities, voluntary persons, the autonomous communities and the Government, among others, for the role they have played in the drafting of this law, because this future law has been open to dialogue and consensus since its inception; a spirit of dialogue and consensus with which we try to continue the work in this House. Indeed, many of the speakers in their speeches have acknowledged that the parliamentary process has taken place under a climate of dialogue and agreement. Thus, the result of this dialogue, of this consensus and of this work in common, twenty amendments have been adopted in Congress and one transactional in the Senate as a result of a pact that began in this very House. At this point, I would like to acknowledge that, thanks to the Senate amendment, the time limits for permission to participate in humanitarian emergencies are extended by staff serving in the National Health System centres and institutions. That is to say, this new proposal facilitates the work of thousands of health volunteers with whom, thanks to their generous help, we can cope with the especially harsh realities that live in areas of the world that are agitated by health and humanitarian emergencies. Therefore, knowing the importance of the Senate's contributions, today in the plenary I appeal to your sense of responsibility for the unanimous adoption of the compromise amendment on this occasion, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, there are no longer any more half ink or more profile positions in the social debate. I sincerely regret that throughout the process some political forces have turned their backs on the whole project by putting the nationalist discourse ahead of the necessary social policies and that others - here I am addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group -, even recognizing that the draft law on volunteering is a kind law and that it should be adopted by consensus of all groups, as Mrs Martín González said on 10 June, prefer not to support it because they were not the protagonists of a law that, as I have been reiterating throughout my speech, is born of consensus and seeks to benefit those who are the real protagonists of the debate, who are the volunteers. Today they have before them a new opportunity to support at least the Senate amendment. I therefore call for the favourable vote of all the groups present here as a firm demonstration of the commitment to the commendable work of volunteering for the less-favoured. On the other hand, as time is pressing, I would like to recall that the bill is part of the ambitious social agenda undertaken by the Government; a social agenda that, through instruments such as the Youth Strategy 2020, the Disability Action Plan and the Third Sector of Social Action Bill that we have just discussed, the Comprehensive Family Support Plan or the Plan to Combat Trafficking in Women and Girls for Sexual Exploitation, aims to consolidate economic growth and strengthen the social pillars of our welfare State. In addition, the draft law on volunteering is an example of coordination and modernization, as in addition to more clearly delineating the competition margins of public administrations, the draft culminating in this House responds to the changes that have taken place since the enactment of the law in force in 1996. I do not want to conclude my speech without reiterating my thanks to the Government, especially Minister Alonso, and to my colleagues Silvia Heredia and María Jesús Susinos, to the lawyer Raquel Álvarez, to the social entities, to the academics and to all the parliamentary groups that, despite our differences, we have been able to reach some common points that have enriched the text, although I recognize here that I would have liked the vote to have been favourable throughout the various stages of parliamentary processing here. In any case, today is a great day for the entities of this sector, for the 3 million volunteers in our country, for the recipients of their action and for all those who are proud to have participated in the elaboration of laws of a marked social character, such as that of the third sector and that of volunteering. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u170	Thank you, Mr. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u171	We move on to the last item on the agenda, amendments adopted by the Senate to the Labour Companies Bill and participated. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the EAJ-PNV Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u172	Thank you, Madam President. The exact pronunciation would be EAJ-PNV. It is the acronym of Eusko Alberdi Jeltzalea. This law, on which we have just discussed the Senate amendments, is an important law. We kept a single amendment alive in the Senate, where it is also believed, by virtue of what we intend to correct, what has been called by the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group before real politics versus liquid politics or semi-liquid politics; real politics has become liquid politics, given the confusion prevailing in the times that run and with the situations that we live with. It was a reflection that seemed lucid to me and I borrowed it from Don Cayo Lara. In this law, in that of working and participating societies, my group seeks something as simple as the harmonization between the registers in which these societies are registered, which can be registers at the state level by virtue of the scope of action of these societies, or they can be registers at the autonomous level. The most important thing is to know what is the area of competition, the material area in which both, those of an autonomous and those of a state level, must be registered. For this reason, there is nothing better than recourse to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, in particular to an important judgment referring to the Cooperatives Act, to a positive conflict of jurisdiction brought by the Basque Government in relation to the Basque Cooperatives Act, which was decided by judgment 44/1984, where it is established that the criteria for delimiting the registration of companies, both working and participating, as well as cooperatives, must meet two criteria: firstly, the place of registered office and, secondly, the predominant activity or the fundamental activity of the enterprise. This would determine which of the two registers is competent and where these companies must be registered to acquire legal personality. That is all my group has proposed in the Senate, Madam President, and it has not been considered by this institution and we regret it. We are also faced with an assumption, perhaps of a smaller entity, but also of a liquid policy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u174	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group supported this law at the moment because we believe that workers have to have tools and legal instruments that allow them to either start new business projects or convert business projects that had failed from a commercial point of view, but which, from an industrial, commercial, etc. point of view, were viable in the medium and long term with the support and participation of workers. We have seen the Senate amendment and it has not surprised us at all that it was only a secondary correction, which means that, obviously, we will continue to support the law that we support here at the time. But I cannot pass this opportunity to reflect on what our party and our parliamentary group have so many times claimed, and it is that as long as the Senate is not really a House of Territorial Representation within a federal system, it makes no sense to be assuming the economic and functional cost of simply making a two-and-a-half-line correction, which is practically styled, within a law of this entity. I did not want to miss this opportunity to call for reflection on the need to radically reform the role of the Senate, because if not, simply, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the most expensive style corrector in the whole of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u176	Thank you, President. Despite the fact that we share the criterion of flexibility that the working and participating societies must have, we do not share - and we put it in our amendments, both here and in the Senate - the percentage of 49% for the possibility of signing an indefinite contract with workers for these types of companies. We sincerely believe that this is an overstatement. My group proposed in its day a maximum of 15%, because we think that if there had been will on the part of the People's Party we could have reached some kind of agreement, but we understand that this intended flexibility, the characteristics, the meaning and the logic of the working and participating societies are distorted. Let me open a question. Does it make sense to distort so much the nature of a working society to the point that most workers, all but one, did not have that status as owners, shareholders? Honestly, we don't think so. Another aspect is that we appreciate that the draft law does not regulate labour societies in part. We believe that this should have a further development, which would obviously have to rely on dialogue and consensus with the social partners. We do not believe that this is a bill where the companies involved are to be regulated. We are voting against it on its day and will therefore maintain the same position.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Convergence and Unity Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u178	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking from the seat to say that this bill contrasts substantially with the two bills that we just discussed a few minutes ago. It is not a liquid bill, but a substantial bill that regulates the legal regime of a type of commercial society; and it regulates it by modernizing it, making it more flexible, discussing - as Mr Pérez Moya pointed out - whether the legislative solutions are correct or not, but going to the matter in a fully justified way. It is a bill that has real significance in society because, in fact, it regulates a specific type of commercial society. In addition, it does so, in contrast to the two previous draft laws, with a jurisdictional title on the part of these Courts indisputable, exclusive competence of the State over commercial and labour legislation and exclusive competence of the State in the field of social security. There can be no criticism on the part of any group in the House, nor can there be any appeal to the Constitutional Court for a competitive invasion because this bill is perfectly in line with our legal framework. Thus, the labour and participating societies will not be at risk that in the development of this bill, if the Government introduces policies to promote it, such policies will be appealed to the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court. They will not have the risk that the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court will invalidate the real decrees of the Government that articulate this policy of subsidies nor will they need, through a substantive law, the Senate to introduce a relationship of entities to receive a subsidy. When the Government and the Courts do things properly, respecting the titles of competence, respecting the rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, the entities, in this case the working and participating societies, do not run the risk of losing the resources necessary to develop their own activity. This is the model we like, this is the model we support, this is the serious model; a model of law that regulates substantial and important issues, which affect trade, which allow unemployed workers to start a new economic activity. The criticism we made in the process of Congress is that the bill does not advance fiscal incentives, which are also the competence of the State, to promote this activity. There we have been frustrated, we are sure that the majority group and the sector of the working and participating societies. But this is a good bill that will certainly last in time. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you do things right, if you do them in accordance with the competition framework, we Members of Parliament for Democratic Convergence pass these kinds of laws without any kind of hindrance. Moreover, if they arrive endorsed by the sectors of Catalan society that participate in the world of the social economy in these formulas, with greater reason. But when you do things wrong, fail to comply with judgments, break the framework of existing competences and do so outside the initiative of Catalan society, our obligation is to reject it on behalf of the voters who have supported us but also on behalf of articulated civil society. When we say that we are different countries we are also because our civil societies are articulated differently, always seeking connection at the state level. The underlying political question is: Are you capable of understanding plurality in all its dimension or, instead, your authoritarian political culture leads you to deny the difference, to deny plurality and to impose the roller of your absolute majority? I have the impression that in Catalonia that doesn't work for them, it's never worked for them, and if anything worked for them, worse. And I have the impression that the whole state is not going to work for them. A more open political culture, more liberal, more respectful of difference, which recognizes that the other in something is right, generally goes well for society and even well for those who rule. In this legislature they have lost the opportunity to do things right, most of them, and in the few who do it right, they have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barahona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the single amendment to the draft law on participating labour companies which is being brought to this plenary session of Congress today is, as has already been said, a single amendment adopted in the Senate which, as it could be expected, has been tabled by the People's Party in a new and extraordinary effort by the Government and the People's Group to legislate, also in this area, from consensus and parliamentary agreement. As has already been said, it is a technical amendment to the second transitional provision, which regulates the adaptation of the statutes of labour companies to the provisions of this new law and its content clarifies the initial text. We believe that it gives greater legal guarantees to labour societies and, therefore, as in the Senate, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this technical amendment. Having said that, I must add that, as we have already stated in the debate that with full legislative competence took place in the Committee on Employment and Social Security on 9 July last, unfortunately we cannot support this law. The Socialist Group maintained its readiness for permanent dialogue with all parliamentary groups, and especially with the People's Group, so that, from consensus, the text of the bill submitted by the Government, as always in recent times, can be improved in a way that is already in extremis, by the urgency procedure and with four years of delay - it should also be emphasized - in compliance with the provisions of the seventh additional provision of Law 5/2011 on Social Economy, which mandates the transmission to these General Courts of a draft law to update and revise Law 4/1977. It's our move. There was not the slightest dialogue and not one of the socialist amendments was accepted in that Commission, nor in the Senate. The Government and the People's Group have, with their closed attitude of urgent handling and the iron application of the parliamentary majority, achieved an interesting law, no doubt, but, of course, unambitious. We respect the agreements that the representative entities of the sector have achieved from the Government, but we consider that the result, I repeat, in addition to being unambitious in matters such as taxation, has important gaps and shortcomings - we do see some risk - of legislative technique in its short, in normative terms, Title III, which seeks to regulate the participating companies. We have said this in the debate in the Commission and tabled amendments to enable the companies involved to be seriously enlarged and regulated because, indeed, it is necessary to do so, but on the basis of a much more complete and precise regulation that is the result of dialogue and consensus also with the social partners, not leaving it all open and at the dawn of a development regulation that, as it is, allows the government to do what it wants and that, of course, from the point of view of correct legislative policy, is not at all the right thing; this aspect of a recommendation made to them in the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, which, as you know, is mandatory for the submission of the draft law. We have come to the end of this whole process and, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party - as I said at the time - we have started from some convictions and of course the previous socialist governments have always achieved great agreements, including the unanimous support of the House, for laws in the social economy sector, such as the Statute of the Self-Employer or the Law on Integration Enterprises, among others. You reject consensus, it is your responsibility. Mr Campuzano has just said that this will be a law of permanence, but we believe that it has the appearance of being an ephemeral law and that a new parliamentary majority, already near, will necessarily have to change. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the People's Group, Mr Camps has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u182	Thank you very much, President. In this last round - which I will not exhaust - this morning on the debate on Senate amendments to the Labour and Participating Societies Bill, as all honourable Members will understand, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of the only amendment that was introduced in the Senate and that was also from the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate. But some of your ladies and gentlemen have made comments and although I do not think it is time to reproduce the debates we have already had, I am obliged to answer them. I will tell Mr Campuzano that we recognize diversity, but we defend equality: diverse but equal. I'm afraid there are those who, when they defend diversity, the difference, they want us not all to be the same. Ladies and gentlemen, I also endorse the words of Mr Olabarría that this is an important law. It seems, by its size, number of articles and also by the sector to which it is addressed, that it could be a second order law. It's not like that at all. This law, for my group, for the People's Parliamentary Group, is of particular importance because if the main objective of the People's Party Government is job creation, precisely when we improve, modernise and update a very important instrument for achieving that objective, such as the working and participating societies, we certainly do something that is tremendously positive for the sector in particular - which is also accompanying us today - and for the whole of our labour market in general. If we add to this, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole rule has been agreed with the sector of the social economy - to which it is addressed - it has received a general favourable assessment by the Economic and Social Council and, after its passage through Congress and Senate, it has received no vote against, you will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that we are faced with a normative text which, although it has been able to receive some, I would say that small, critical, reflects the aspirations of the majority of those who have participated in its elaboration. Mrs Rodríguez Barahona recalled this: this new regulation is the mandate of a law, Law 5/2011, on Social Economy. A law which was passed by a socialist government and subsequently ratified by these General Courts; and which fulfils that mandate by a Government of the People's Party. Some people, when the mandates are fulfilled, begin to assess whether it is too early or too late. I believe that the importance is that what is mandated, fulfilled and this government, before a law that made a socialist government, which passed a Courts with a socialist majority, fulfils that mandate and a Courts with a majority of the People's Party, brings a new law that mainly amends Law 4/1997, which in its day was the Law on Anonymous Labour Societies, approved by these Courts with a majority, then, of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I was rapporteur on that law eighteen years ago. A law that was born, and I would like to set it as an example to contradict the words of Mrs Rodríguez Barahona, of a proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which at that time had just passed to the opposition in our country; and which the People's Parliamentary Group, with a majority in this House, took into consideration and after the debate that followed, adopted a law that has been shown to be successful and very positive for the sector today. It is not we, ladies and gentlemen, the spokesman for the Socialist Group, who describe this procedure as atypical: we practice it. And I think it is good in the times that your ladies and gentlemen, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are abandoning that prevailing conduct that you have had again today since the opposition: the rejection by the rejection of the government's proposals or the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group. If anything shows us this law is that recent history, as in the present case, the support of each other maintained over time, brings with it positive and successful regulations as will undoubtedly happen with this law of labor societies. A law on working and participating societies that reinforces the nature, function and characterization of the working society as an entity of the social economy. A law on working and participating societies that improves its legal regime with the objectives of encouraging the participation of workers by facilitating their access to the status of partners. A law that incorporates new measures to ensure the control of society by workers, increases the usefulness of labour societies and their preference by entrepreneurs, strengthens their business side and strengthens the stability and non-council nature of this business model. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now finish my speech, and I do not want to go any further than other speakers have done in this speaking time. But I conclude by saying, on behalf of my group, that for our country, today, for Spain - which leads the largest job creation in the euro area and the European Union; a country, Spain, which was the second largest Member State in the euro area that created, after Germany, in the last year; a country, Spain, which is the third largest youth employment creation in the euro area after Holland and Germany - the final adoption of a rule such as today's with which we culminated the legislative iter of the law of working and participating societies is undoubtedly good news. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-30-CD150930.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Camps. The meeting was suspended. It was one and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
