ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the interpellations, so that the urgent inquiry of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is on the agenda with number 26, will begin to be debated first and the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo, which appears with number 24, will be debated last. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u2	We began the agenda item on the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliament amending Law 37/1992 of 28 December on value added tax in relation to the cultural sector. For your presentation, we have three representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia who make up the delegation that will defend the bill, whom I welcome to the National Parliament at this time. As I said, Mrs Àngels Ponsa i Roca will be involved in the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u3	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the Catalan Parliament, we come to this House today to ask the Spanish Government for the ninth time to reconsider the increase in VAT on culture in September 2012. The injustice practiced with this savage increase is a cry in our society and it seems unusual that it is the Parliament of Catalonia that will have to come to the extreme to take this initiative to Congress in the face of the lack of sensitivity of the government of President Rajoy, which does not respond to either the cry of the sector or the macroeconomic logic arising from the fiscal increase. We defend an economic sector, the cultural sector, which in Catalonia employs 157,800 people, with more than 30,000 companies, but above all, because we are convinced that culture is the capacity to generate the free and critical spirit between citizens. We are here on behalf of the people of Catalonia, but also for the benefit and interest of the cultural sector of the Spanish State and, therefore, of all citizens who, wherever they come from, have the right to access to culture and VAT at 21% is an obstacle, often insurmountable, for both cultural entrepreneurs and the public. In fact, we are not alone, we are represented and accompanied by a large part of the cultural sector, whom we warmly thank for their support, because it is a joint demand that we have worked side by side with more than fifty appearances in the Committee on Culture and Language and many more meetings, both with the Government of the Generalitat and with parliamentary groups to show us how and how much the increase in VAT in culture has harmed them. We would also like to point out that we have come after taking many initiatives in this House and with different formulations. If I have it well accounted for, our group, Convergence i Unió, has presented up to twenty initiatives and also outside them, in other institutions, such as the multiple requests that the President of the Generalitat and the Councillors of Culture and Economy have made. The Catalan Government has also taken a series of actions to alleviate this increase in different directions. On the one hand we could put the example of the Scenario 25 programme, promoting new audiences, the Fundació Catalunya Cultura and, more recently, the creation of a tax on the provision of access to networks for the promotion of the audiovisual sector, which we hope will be respected. All this multiplicity of actions, plus that which other parliamentary groups have done, have served nothing; we continue to have a Spanish cultural policy in black and white, as in the time of the NO-DO. In fact, we could put in a headline that would define the Spanish Government's action in the field of culture during these four years: how to deculturize citizens and mistreat the cultural sector. I assure you that even with this intention they could not have done it worse. They promised us a law of patronage that they have not complied with, a law of intellectual property with a private copying fee that would compensate the creators and still shine for their absence, and in case of little, they delight a sector already badly damaged by the crisis with an insulting 21% of VAT, which they impose on us without even appreciating its effectiveness, because they well know that it has not produced any positive effect, but on the contrary; if their claim was to collect more, it has produced just the opposite effect. That cultural VAT is kept at 21% is only explained by an unwise stubbornness or by a conscious intention to weaken certain collectives and certain societies. If so, the Spanish Government is not understanding a basic issue, weakening culture does not weaken a sector. Culture is a constituent fact of any society, and no society can afford not to defend culture, not just because of what the cultural sector represents, but because of all the contributions it brings and which are essential and, without a doubt, it is essential to preserve them. This is our firm decision and, for this reason, we will continue to fight. We will continue to fight because there is a cross-cutting and joint cry of society as a whole against 21% in culture. Employers, workers, self-employed, public, no one defends, outside you, a VAT of 21%. In fact, we should not be surprised by this stubbornness. I'm sorry Mr. Wert isn't here and I can't hear him, because he's the same one who chases us to the school without a reasonable argument. I want to end up remembering a few words from Ovidi Montllor that I think illustrate the occasion, when he said: [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Ponsa. Mrs Teresa Vallverdu Albornà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with another issue which highlights the differences between the objectives of the Catalonian Parliament and the Government of the State. There have been so many decisions made with great consensus in Catalonia that have been rejected without clear arguments, that the hope we put today in the response of the majority of this Congress is not all that solid we would like. But hope, gentlemen, is the last thing you lose. And as we have yet, for a short time, the political situation forces us to depend on some aspects of its decisions, here they have us, ready to defend the need for Catalonia and for the whole state to reduce cultural VAT to 4%. When the government decided to move VAT on cultural products from 8% to 21% it struck the cultural sector and the possibility of access for the majority of the population. The Government's stated objectives when the tax was increased have not been achieved. The largest collection planned has not been so. Families are unable to increase their cultural budget and this incapacity rests with cultural operators. At a time of crisis, when citizens devote their efforts to the most basic needs, increasing what they should devote to the cultural budget inevitably means removing these citizens from the culture. A tax, such as VAT, which does not take into account the level of income, has enormous social effects and causes a drastic reduction in cultural consumption in the lower income bands and in an increasingly impoverished middle class. The result is that culture is only accessible to the accommodated classes and becomes the heritage of the elites. For companies and workers in the cultural sector the consequences are dramatic, the cultural sector is experiencing the most serious crisis that is remembered. As a result of the rise in VAT, the cultural sector has become poorer, resulting in job losses, closure of rooms and a sharp slowdown in industrial growth. It has seen its billing cut alarmingly and has had to drastically reduce the volume of economic activity and occupation. As a result, income by IRPF and Social Security has been reduced. This increase has therefore had a negative impact on the collection of finance; it was absolutely contrary to what was said to have been achieved when the increase was announced from 8 % to 21 %. In short, the fact that a large majority of the population have been excluded from culture has negative effects on the present and future of people and on that of a key sector for the development of a cultured and free community. Similarly, the comparison with the countries of the environment shows that the Spanish State is not countercurrent. The European average is well below 21 %. The measure of the Spanish Government, taking into account the average income of the inhabitants, leaves us in a situation of absolute inferiority and decompensation and, moreover, hinders the competitiveness of the own market and is clearly opposed to the policies of the neighbouring countries. What, then, does this government do to continue, despite unilateral announcements and subsequent corrections, keeping cultural VAT at 21 %? Since there are no economic arguments to support this rise, why have they not followed the example of the European countries that decided to rectify? Because this Government does not care that culture is a basic and fundamental right, a possibility of international recognition, the essential component of a future industry. This Government punishes a sector that has repeatedly shown its opposition to the policies of the People's Party. This Government is disturbed by the culture and its creators and the consequences of having a population formed, cultured, critical, free and less manipulated. Their arguments for keeping cultural VAT at 21% are not economic, they are ideological. Culture is only useful to them if it serves to reinforce a uniform view of the State, but they do not want to hear about creation, innovation, reflection, criticism; they do not want to hear about progress or freedom. We have come to propose that cultural VAT should be reduced and, moreover, because we are convinced that it has a huge significance in the model of community that is intended to be achieved, our demand is that the VAT for the cultural sector should be 4%. Culture must be the tool that builds and cohesives society, and it needs super-reduced VAT because it is a basic, essential and indispensable consumer product. We demand a 4 % VAT because culture is an element of primary need that gives the individual and society the capacity to grow free. We really hope you'll rectify it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Vallverdu. Don Xavier Sabate, welcome back to your home.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u7	Thank you very much, President. It is true, this was my home during three legislatures, so I cannot begin without recalling it and thanking you for the expressions of affection you have had with me during these previous hours and my personal satisfaction at being able to address your ladies and gentlemen again in this House, representative of all the peoples of Spain and of all the Spaniards. I will add some more consideration to those already invoked here today by my colleagues in the Catalan Parliament. It is true - figures have been given - that in the cultural sector some 85,000 people are employed in Catalonia, 850,000 in Spain, more than 7.5 million in Europe, but apart from that and from a left-wing perspective, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened with this increase in VAT is an attack on equal opportunities for broad social strata. To the extent that the tax on cultural goods, on cultural production, on cultural consumption has been increased, there have been very broad social layers - and we have been doing so for nearly three years - that have moved away from cultural consumption, from cultural creation, from the development of cultural talents, and that concerns us. That is why we have come here from the Parliament of Catalonia to ask that all of this be pushed back. We have not come to carry out a simple procedure, but to raise the awareness of your ladies and gentlemen, especially those who support the Government, that it was the one who promoted these measures. We should more pamper one of the sectors of our productive fabric which is connected to other sectors such as tourism. We would have to develop more among all cultural tourism, because Spain is a country that has many possibilities in this sense and, therefore, could add added value, worth redundancy, today that is talking here so much about added value. From our point of view, culture, in addition to being a public good, is a right, and as every right has to be protected and not ensnared by the public authorities; its development has to receive impulses, not brakes. This increase that has taken place for three years in Spain is a cultured and destructive measure of the cultural sector and, in addition, impoverishes individual and collective consciousness, because it does not allow citizens or peoples and communities to develop fully. When we discussed this issue in the Parliament of Catalonia, one of the spokespersons said: It has not been the increase in VAT that has prevented and reduced cultural consumption, but it has been the crisis. It could be, but in any case, it has been an added measure. At a time of crisis, rather than increasing cultural taxes, we should have done the opposite, giving greater facilities for culture to be that public good to which everyone has the right to access. We ask you to vote in favour of the measure that we propose to you today and, in any case, to those who are tempted to vote against, we ask you to do what my fellow Members of the People's Party in the Parliament of Catalonia have done, to abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sabate. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President, and welcome. One of the actions of this Government has been that of cultural VAT, on which the Government has had countless meetings with the sector to reduce, and has repeatedly promised, especially in the face of a nearby Goya gala, that yes, that it was already going to fix it. But time passes, the legislature is exhausted and deception becomes more evident. We do not know what the objective was when the cultural VAT was imposed at 21 %. Make culture inaccessible to most people? Destroying an industrial sector under the prejudice that it was ideologically closer to others than the People's Party? Taking revenge on the blind girl's video? Or all together? In any case, all ends are unworthy of a democratic government and undeserved by a society that lived in cultural opacity for forty years of dictatorship and that rebuilt democracy over culture as a fundamental pillar, knowing its relevance for people to be free in their decisions and thoughts. But now I am convinced that - and I quote the textual words of Rita Barberá, the mayor of Valencia in office until Saturday, after the electoral hospice of day 24 - before the end of this legislature the government will stop if the cultural VAT drops. The sad thing is that it will not do so either because it believes it has to do so, nor as a measure to revitalize the industrial sector, nor to meet the existing social demand, nor to make culture accessible to people; it will do so as an electoral measure to wash its image, as it has done in the previous and previous electoral campaigns. They have ruled these three and a half years against culture, against workers, against universal public health, against decent pensions, against people in a situation of dependency or functional diversity, against access to justice, all of which fail to fulfil all of their electoral promises. Is there anyone who has been able to forget President Rajoy's unforgettable campaign against the rise of VAT with the PSOE government? The cocks, the saber of the evil ruler..., he said. The cultural industry generates more than half a million jobs, accounts for 4% of GDP and, since the government approved the increase in VAT, it has been like the entry of an elephant caught up in a cacharrerie: collection has fallen, many jobs have been destroyed and minimum collection does not justify this destruction of jobs; it is the opposite of what has been done in many European countries such as Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands, which have a much lower VAT than ours. We will therefore vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration and, moreover, we will do so completely convinced.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u10	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same group, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome, Members of Parliament of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in particular you, in breach of the electoral programme in July 2012, approved, with a large dose of cynicism, the general increase in VAT, in particular cultural VAT, from 8 % to 21 %. The Republicans, in response, put forward two initiatives. The first, the creation of a 33 % VAT for luxury products, because it is not the same thing to buy a tractor as a Ferrari. Secondly, we also proposed the reduction of cultural VAT. In fact, with the creation of this VAT for luxury products, it is certain that cultural VAT could have been reduced. But the two Republican proposals were rejected, as were other proposals in the same direction put forward by other parliamentary groups. What's the reason? Very simple: you do not consider culture as a basic consumer product. They were rejected because you did not choose to go looking for resources through the action of taxing the income of capital and the income of the great fortunes, but chose to punish the consumption of the popular classes. In short, neoliberal politics at the service of the power and political masons of a minority, which is the one that concentrates most of the wealth. There is no more, even though - and this is what is unforgivable - you knew the magnitude of the consequences: paying a very high price. Firstly, a blow to production and artistic creation in a context of budget cuts by public administrations, financial tension resulting from the lack of credit and also loss of competitiveness at the international level. And, besides, with two derivatives. First derivative: destruction of employment. Second derivative: nullifying cultural consumption as a catalyst for a hypothetical economic recovery. And, secondly, the second consequence, the second very high price to pay, something that you will hardly be able to forgive: what, the product of its elitism and its classism, is called a cultural fracture. Because you, what have you done? You have aborted the process of popular classes having access to the consumption of culture, because those who had already acquired the habit for their economic income or for their cultural heritage did not affect them. Who did it affect? It affected those who had not yet acquired the habit of being able to access cultural consumption. In fact, we are talking about the sectors of citizenship that were in transit towards their conversion, I repeat, into consumers of cultural products. In short, cultural fracture; or, what is the same, annoy progress, by not using a verb that begins with the letter jota. And, finally, another mazazo to minority cultures, all those carried in Catalan, Galician or Basque. You, as you only respond to the cry of 'classism and close Spain!', should know that if your cultural and fiscal policies make the Spanish language, made in Spanish, suffer, imagine what your cultural policy represents with respect to those cultures that are conveyed through languages that are not yet guaranteed their survival. If you put Spanish culture in check made in Spanish, this check becomes perhaps in mate regarding those other minority languages. But you're not for the work. In fact, you do not support culture in Spanish, it scares you, you are still captive to that Francoist idea that culture is dangerous, that culture attacks the status quo. It turns out that if you do not support the culture made in the Spanish language, if you are afraid of the culture made in the Spanish language, how will the culture that is made in the Catalan, Galician or Basque languages not disgust you! That's the reason. For this reason, we will never forgive you what you are doing and I hope you will soon be in opposition so that culture can breathe a little.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u13	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Basque Group, I also welcome the representatives of the Catalan Parliament. The Catalonian Parliament today brings to the House a proposal for a law with the aim of the government changing Law 37/1992, which caused the cultural VAT to rise in its subsequent changes. Of course, we all know what we are talking about because the comrades who have spoken here have made it clear. Thus, the increase in VAT on services of a cultural nature was drastically increased by means of this royal decree, which was embodied in Royal Decree 20/2012 of 31 July. Obviously, this is not the first time we've come to this rostrum to talk about this. In the Commission, in plenary, we have dealt with it many times and I believe that, with the exception of the People's Parliamentary Group, we have all argued the same content, the same arguments and the same criticisms, and today we will not change because we continue to think the same thing, because it would be doubtful if we changed the argument today. Obviously, my group agrees with the proposal of the Catalonian Parliament for a number of reasons which I will try to explain and which will differ substantially very little from the arguments that other groups have given or may give after my intervention. The Government has taken two measures, say, of an economic or fiscal nature that have directly affected two lines of flotation: on the cultural and health issues. The rise of cultural VAT and the famous royal decree of elements of health issues that we have dealt with so many times. The two were drastic elements with a pure and hard economicist objective, critical, but economicist. Moreover, if they had had the result they expected, we would have had to have kept quiet; but neither of the two measures has achieved the results that the People's Party intended, that is, to make money. They didn't make it. Therefore, the question we ask ourselves is why the Government took this decision so hard and harmful, exactly that of cultural VAT or that of VAT for cultural shows, that what it has achieved in the background has been to destroy jobs and discourage both the creation and the production of cultural activities, as well as an element that is certainly the most important, the motivation of the spectators, generating a negative spiral that has ended up paralysing the great cultural activity that has been given so far. The cultural benefit in turn has a cultural industry behind it, because culture is not only something spontaneous; there is an entire industry that is generated around it. This measure has hit both of them on the flotation line. Today morning the Secretary of State for Culture made in his intervention, by the art of birlibirloque, a kind of juggling game talking about that 70% of the cultural activity of the Spanish State revolves around the book, which has a much lower VAT. What do you intend to do? Let's stop playing games, let's leave the VAT on the book where it is. We are talking about the VAT of cultural shows that is seriously harming all the activity in music, performing arts and cinema fundamentally. I'll give you some data. As far as cinema is concerned, since the introduction of VAT, the influx has fallen by 21 %. I know someone is going to say that as last year a particular film has worked perfectly, wonderfully, surpassing all perspectives, it has raised the percentage. We are delighted that this has raised the quota of influx to the cinema, but it is an interesting fact that has little or nothing to do with the measures that were taken. The fall of the locker was 45%; more than 25 cinemas, 150 rooms, were closed; 13% of direct employment was lost and, according to Ministry data - it is the data of the ministry that corroborates it, not those that the Basque Group has suddenly invented - the theatre is more drastic. Thirty-three per cent of the revenue is lost, 1,500 direct jobs are lost, some €700,000 more or less have been lost in copyright and IRPF, 3.6 million in unemployment, 2 million in social security contributions and 2.3 million in corporate tax. All theatre entrepreneurs reduced recruitment by almost 50%. In music we also have similar or worse data. Imagine that we recently had until a day without music, in protest at all this that is leading to a dramatic situation a lot of entrepreneurs who have to risk generating an activity, and have even had to lower the tax base so that with the 21% increase in VAT the tickets to musical shows were minimally affordable to the citizen. The gross musical billing fell by 20.53 %. They are data that people who live on it, and that the ministry knows: about 42 million euros in losses. We can give data, data and data, even use the whole shift by giving data, but you already know them perfectly. This is more of a question of criterion: what was being sought? I want the representative of the People's Group to say when he comes up here: Look, everything you say is true, but we have collected this, this and this, and it has been beneficial. He won't be able to do it because he's not. The cost of this collection is brutal, both in jobs and in closing rooms, in the absence of concerts, in the impossibility of making tours, in impediments for theatrical companies and cinematographic productions. In addition, it seems that the Spanish Minister of Finance is the most expert sorcerer in the whole of the European Union, because the recommendations of all the experts have been missed, of which - I'm sorry to say - I trust you most. Cultural VAT or cultural shows in Norway is 0%, in Switzerland 2.5%, in Belgium and the Netherlands 6%, in France 5.5% and in Germany 7%. When countries like France, Holland or Portugal saw that the consequences of the crisis were negative, they lowered VAT, while Spain did so. Mr Montoro is a magician, we already know that; but about this alchemical economist, who surpasses in knowledge and predictions to countries like those mentioned, given the results, I really don't know what to think. The worst thing - I also mentioned it at the time - is that the Ministry of Culture does not say either. The Ministry of Culture is in charge of this, but, as the Finance Ministry commands, the Ministry of Culture obeys, and seeing how cultural productions that with a normal VAT could have been bled out could have gone forward. The crisis left to industry and shows, and VAT, instead of being a palliative element that would help to survive, as happened in other European countries, what has done is to end them, to leave them KO. In the background - someone quoted it - the worst is the disincentive and disincentive of future publics, who no longer consume cultural products because they cannot afford them. Because they can't afford it, they're looking for a way to get it, because people want to consume culture. So, what's going on? That piracy enters, illegal things, the way to access illegally, because legally it is impossible, since there is no pocket to allow it. I am done, Madam President, to say that we will support the measure proposed by the Catalonian Parliament. Since this is not the first time, I reiterate that taking a corrective measure in time is better than not taking it. I therefore hope that before the end of the legislature the Government will finish at least one term and not leave it for the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u14	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be brief, ladies and gentlemen, because, although the matter is very important, I do not want the debate to be extended, as I believe that most groups in this House will agree on our assessment of the initiative. I hope we are not just a small majority, but the broadest of the majority. This proposal for a law that has been brought here from the Catalan Parliament is a claim that has been produced throughout the entire legislature. When I say long I mean that it happened from the very moment that the Government decided to raise cultural VAT; if I say broad it is because it is an issue that has been brought to this House in all its possibilities and conditions It has been asked by several parliamentary groups through a multitude of requests of all kinds, in meetings with civil and business groups, for which this measure approved by the Government has squandered the possibilities for the future of their businesses and for those groups that have seen their right to access to culture reduced. [[written questions to the Government, non-legislative proposals, motions, in committee and in plenary]] For this reason, it has been the filmmakers, audiovisual technicians, actors, theatre and film actresses, collectives related to the cinemas, associations of flamenco tablaos, musicians and producers of large and small size who have asked us to send their voice to this House. Although the Government has not yet given any sign of understanding the situation, I must remind you that we are talking about culture, a constitutional right, and that after the rise of VAT, Spain has been left as the European Union's red light on access to culture, because, thanks to you, our country has the highest tax system in the whole European Union. At this point in the film, in the book, with 4 % in paper format and 21 % in electronic format - and the government has already approved, on UPyD's proposal, to equal electronic VAT to VAT on paper in the case of books - it seems incredible at this point in the work, in history, that the government does not realize that culture is the foreground of education, and that must be aspired to: a society with greater possibilities, with higher quality of life. To this end, culture is essential, a sector that has already been seriously affected by the crisis and to which the Government gave the dot in 2012 with the rise in taxes. In conclusion, it has always been understood in my UPyD Parliamentary Group that resource management needs to be done efficiently, so there are some regressive measures by the Government that may become understandable or justifiable, though never desirable. As long as the government turns its back on the real fight against fraud - let us remember that Spain has half the average of tax inspectors that the rest of the countries in our environment -; as long as the government decides to make tax regulations - excuse me, I correct myself so that the vice president of the government, who is not here, is not here, tax amnesty -; as long as all this happens, we will always support those initiatives that are aimed at reducing cultural VAT. We therefore announce the vote in favour of this consideration of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u16	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u17	Thank you, Madam President. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] This is a proposal for a law which is defended on its own in its explanatory statement and for the reasons explained at this time. There are so many times that we have had the opportunity to hold this debate that it is difficult to incorporate more arguments. Arguments against votes is what we've had so far. That is why I would like to use my intervention, that of the Plural Left Group, to put this initiative in the context of this government's irrational and classy fiscal policy. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that identifies the orientation of a government well, it is its fiscal policies, although unfortunately in Spain for some time taxation has been the great space of political indistinctness, and the result is right now: a fiscal system that has lost its capacity since 1993 and its role in reducing inequalities. Today we have an example of that, because we are currently talking about culture not only as an economic sector but above all as a right and how a VAT of 21 % makes it difficult for a large part of the population to have access to that basic right, which is that of culture. From that perspective, I insist that it is very important for all groups in this House to bear in mind that we are discussing something more than a type of indirect tax, which is VAT. We are discussing a model of society, we are discussing what kind of society we want and what role culture plays in that society. Today our tax system fails to meet the three demands of the constitutional mandate: it is not sufficient, it is not equitable, it is not efficient. It is not enough; on the contrary, it is clearly insufficient in its capacity to collect. Revenue has already disappeared, the fiscal fat that facilitated the speculative bubble, and today we find the crude reality of a cadaveric tax system that earns 8 points of GDP less than the average of the European Union, a differential of 80 billion euros less each year; 80 billion euros less each year that could well be used, for example, to encourage the cultural industries and, therefore, citizens' access to culture. Unfortunately, that does not allow for an insufficient tax system. It is also profoundly unfair, because the tax system already since 1993 - especially on the basis of the policies of this Government, in breach of its promises but above all in the opposite direction that this country needs - has increased taxes, but not all citizens. It has done so in a profoundly unfair manner, fundamentally punishing wage incomes and raising indirect taxes as unfair as that of cultural VAT. I insist on this issue because today a worker in this country is double-punished: increasing her direct taxes in the form of more IRPF on wages while at the same time hindering access to a basic good such as that of culture, ultimately putting obstacles to access to the right to culture. In addition to being insufficient and unfair, our tax system is profoundly inefficient, because the impacts it is causing on the economy in terms of inefficiency are brutal. Today we have a concrete example, and not only in a short time as a result of the impact that VAT has had together with other elements in the context of a crisis to reduce the activity of a key economic sector. At the moment we should be thinking about Spain how to encourage a change in the productive model, how to generate quality economic sectors, how to get out of seasonal tourism alone, seasonal tourism. In that sense, the factor of culture, which I see not as a subsidiary but in any case as a clearly complementary element, should play a very important role. If there is any future employment site for the twenty-first century, in addition to access to social rights and environmental issues, it is culture as a great source of quality employment. This Government and the Group of the European People's Party are doing exactly the opposite, obviating the very legal and political nature of culture. When we look at the measures taken with regard to VAT, we see clearly that, in general, the treatment that Mr Montoro, the Government and the People's Party have given to the increase in VAT has been to treat certain sectors not as what they are, as a right, but purely as a good and a commodity. It is true that the cultural sector is economically important, but it is more than an economic sector. It is not the same thing to produce luxury cars or yachts as culture. It should not be the same, although unfortunately on many occasions that is forgotten. Culture as a right to open the doors, together with education, to other basic rights is being abused by this Government, and is also being abused in this case by increasing VAT to the culture sector. That is why the economic arguments are very important, no doubt, because they are ruining many sectors, many companies, many initiatives that have taken years, decades trying to build cultural projects so that then a rise of 8% to 21% in VAT and punishing them for a situation in many cases of submerged economy, when not disappearing. Since the economic factors are important, I would like to stress the structural factor, which is the determining factor, by which we believe that the treatment of VAT in the cultural sector should be that of super-reduced VAT. We do not understand the reasons, because they have not been given. In the Parliament of Catalonia, the spokesman for the People's Party said the following, that the proof that the People's Party was serving culture is that part of that culture, that of the book sector, is taxed with the super-reduced VAT of 4%. That is true, but that makes it even more incomprehensible that the rest of the cultural sector, of cultural activities, is subject to that 21 % VAT. My question to the Group of the European People's Party is this: Why is a story in book form taxed at 4% VAT and if that same story becomes a screenplay or a show, a play, has to be taxed at 21%? I do not understand it, as I do not understand anything of the criteria that this Government has established with regard to VAT. Let me give you a tour of the irrationality of what you have approved with a very concrete example. If this summer a server decides to use its leisure time and goes to a spa, it will pay 10% VAT for these services. If I use the services of a sports guide in that establishment or spa, I will pay 21 per cent. If I'm more sedentary and I'm interested in an art room, I'll pay 10%. On the other hand, if my cultural concerns are directed to theatre, cinema, a concert, music or the circus, I will pay 21%. If I stay in the spa and buy a book I'll pay 4%, but if I'm used to reading in an e-book I'll pay 21%. Is it possible to have more irrationality in determining the rate of VAT? Yes, and you have managed to do so by applying a 10% VAT, for example, to a sector such as imports of art objects, antiques and collections. That is the concept you have of what taxes are. What explanation does that have? Very simple, the determination of VAT in the case of culture has been made by two criteria: one, the general, that of the lobby. VAT is determined on the basis of each of the lobbies, and here we have seen it on some occasion, for example in the debate on fruit and vegetable activities. The one who has a lobby and the one who succeeds in defeating him gets the government to listen to him; the one who does not, or has succeeded in instigating the anger of the government, such as the cultural sector, seems to get not only contempt but punishment. I will use a single argument on the ground of you, of the People's Party, you are the world's greatest constitutionalists, the best defenders of the Spanish Constitution, but I would like to remind you of Article 9.2 of this Spanish Constitution, which says: 'It is up to the public authorities to promote the conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which they are integrated to be real and effective'. That, when it comes to the scope of the tax system and the regulation of VAT, means not taxing the VAT of the cultural sector by 21 %, but applying the super-reduced rate to it. You do not do this because, unfortunately, as you have shown us on many occasions, you are part-time constitutionalists, since you are only interested in one thing in the Constitution: the unity of destiny in the universal. And the unity of destiny in the universal has never been well with culture, and you are the children of those ancestors. I'm sorry, but it is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u18	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u19	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are again debating an important issue for the Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union, as the various parliamentary initiatives, as Mrs Àngels Ponsa has said, show; there are already twenty in this Parliament in all its different versions: non-legislative proposals in the Commission, interpellations, motions resulting from interpellations, various questions to the Government in plenary. That is to say, we have tried it on all sides, especially because it is an issue that, since the Government decided to implement it, we consider to be an erroneous, unjust, disproportionate decision that has been disorbited as a whole. We take advantage of the Parliament of Catalonia to bring to this House this proposal of law to point out that it poses the same thing that we have proposed as active and passive during these years, and we have always met with a wall and the feeling of not being heard. Therefore, sometimes we think that we are in the Congress of the No, from the No to any initiative that wants to minimize the impact of fiscal measures on the world of culture and also on other aspects that are not now relevant. We are two and a half years away from the disproportionate rise of VAT to 21% on cultural goods and services. It is a measure that at this time has meant a genuine crossroad for the cultural sector, with bloody consequences as has been demonstrated by the various studies and reports of the sector and the economic data: destruction of employment, closure of businesses and drop in consumption of cultural products. This data has been discussed on many occasions. In fact, perhaps the need for a reduction in VAT on cultural products and goods is already a demand from all groups in this House, from all but the one supporting the Government. Therefore, it is a demand with which we all agree, as it shows, if we join the 20 parliamentary initiatives of Convergence i Union that of all the parliamentary groups, which is perhaps the subject of this legislature that has generated the most parliamentary initiatives. Since September 2012, our parliamentary group has called for a decrease in cultural VAT and its harmonisation with which it taxes cultural products and activities with the rest of Europe. We have done so in an insistent way and echoing the voices that from all areas of the sector called for such a drop; in short, from a wide range of our cultural industries, as well as from the point of view of consumers, because this rise in VAT makes access to culture difficult. [[artists, musicians, concert promoters, theatre companies, representatives of cinemas, cinema promoters]] We cannot forget, as has already been said, that the Spanish Constitution, that Constitution which is so much to be respected, protects in its article 44 the access of citizens to culture. This disproportionate rise in VAT therefore makes it difficult to access culture to a specific sector of the population, which has been demanding more sacrifices since the beginning of the economic crisis - with which we continue to struggle - than ever before. It is also a large sector of the population, which explains the huge decrease in the number of spectators in all live culture shows, whether theatre or concerts of all kinds and in the cinemas and the consequent drop in the collection. It was surprising that at the beginning of last year VAT was reduced for the sale of art, a market that is not particularly representative and affects a very specific segment of the population. At the same time, apart from being incomprehensible, despite timid announcements of a possible reduction in the tax rate of VAT applied to cultural services and products, it is not understood that the Government would remain motionless and would condition the reduction of VAT to improve the economy. It was therefore the temporary rise in VAT. Well, as the Government is now repeatedly talking about recovery and economic growth, we believe that this bill from the Catalonian Parliament is coming at an appropriate time. If the condition was the improvement of the economy and the government continues to propaganda that this improvement and the economic results put Spain at the head of European growth, VAT can now be lowered. If coherence were to be a value, it would now be to accept the consideration of this proposal for a law and to articulate the mechanisms for the reduction of VAT. We are going to vote in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law, which still goes beyond our usual reduced VAT claim for culture. The proposal calls for VAT to be reduced by 4%. We believe that this is the time to implement such a large measure and to give a boost to the cultural sector, not only to cultural enterprises because of their unquestionable weight in the country's economy, but also because of the creation of quality jobs that are associated with them. [[The lady]] It is not only because of this, but also because of a question of democratic hygiene on subjects such as entrances to museums, art galleries, art galleries, theatres, circuses, opera or popular music concerts, musical shows, cinematographic projections, as well as access to monuments, sites and natural parks, in short access to culture, which is what must be protected and defended. It's 2015. The legislature is coming to an end and we are still the same as three years ago. Economically, according to the Government, we are doing better; therefore, things have changed. We continue to listen continuously to statements from the Government that can lead us to confusion and that keeps the cultural sector at bay, to expectation, which means that certain decisions that could be made from the cultural sector remain in stand by, because there is no concession and there is a certain insecurity and paralysis in order to be able to make investments in the field of culture. Let us remember that the 13-point increase in VAT came at a particularly critical time for the cultural sector, since, in addition to the widespread crisis that the economy suffered with the decline in consumption in all areas, the cultural sector had to struggle with specific problems along with the disappearance of much of the aid from different administrations due to the effect of the economic crisis, the lack of access to credit for cultural enterprises and industries and the lack of effective impetus also from sponsorship, another issue that our group has claimed during all these years. The cultural sector accounts for almost 4% of the economy's gross domestic product. On the other hand, it is obvious - we cannot fail to remember it again - what Article 44 says. Therefore, we have the opportunity in this proposal of law to take advantage of and give process and credibility to a conception that, when we say that things are temporary, time - indeterminate temporary concept - is not eternal. Let us hope that this can be achieved. We take advantage of this proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia in order to take up the course of what would be the promotion of cultural activity in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. For the Socialist Group, Mr Vallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin, if I may, by speaking this afternoon expressing the deep pain, both personal and of the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the sad loss of Pedro Zerolo. [[Applauds]] Use these words to recognize your example of committed, coherent and uncompromising struggle for equality, civil rights and the freedoms of millions of people in this country. This house, Parliament, and society as a whole owes much to its figure and its struggle. Their passion, perseverance and integrity have made this a better country, a fairer country and a more dignified country. There are footprints, ladies and gentlemen, that do not erase and legacies that do not forget, and yours is one of them. Dude, we already missed you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen committees of the Catalonian Parliament, I would like to begin by thanking the representatives of the Catalonian Parliament for the presentation of this initiative and to take them forward from the Socialist Group that we will support the consideration of this proposal for a law. [[Continue your intervention greeting in Catalan]] We do so because we share your concern and your approaches, because the fact is that, since the approval by the People's Party Government in 2012 of the 13-point increase in VAT on cultural products and services, we have seen the severe blow this measure has taken to the cultural industry. This has undoubtedly been a bad decision, a bad decision for the lethal effects it has had on the sinking of cultural activity, for the harmful effects it has caused on consumption and, as has also been shown, for its ineffectiveness as an instrument of tax collection, which has been the main justification of the Government for this nonsense. See if this measure has been bad, which, in addition to spraying an entire sector, has been unable to increase collection. Or did you really believe, gentlemen of the People's Party, that with this rise in taxes you were going to contribute to the recovery of the economy? Did they really think that's how they were going to create jobs? Did you not think for a moment that going from 8 % to 21 % of VAT the immediate consequence would be the collapse of the whole sector? A 13-point rise, ladies and gentlemen, does not even serve as an economic argument to justify a misconception of this magnitude. They destroy the cultural sector and collect less. Impressive, ladies and gentlemen, impressive, ladies and gentlemen! You have put the highest cultural VAT in Europe and have done so at a time when domestic consumption is low. By their decision they have led to a 13% increase in prices and, consequently, to a loss of spectators in all kinds of shows. You have drowned a sector that accounts for 3.5% of GDP and 2.6% of employment in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, last July Spanish cultural companies sent a letter to the President of the Government informing him of the impact of their measures: loss of jobs, loss of production capacity, loss of business fabric, local talent and even emigration of many creators. His policies have fulminated the hopes and expectations of carpenters, painters, electricians, makeup artists, writers, musicians... The figures are dramatic: more than 150 rooms have been closed in recent years; three out of every four actors without a job and 68% of them cannot even live worthy of their profession. Not to mention the museums. That is the raw reality, ladies and gentlemen. More than 30% fall in consumption and loss of business fabric, resulting in increased unemployment and job insecurity. This has significantly diminished the capacity to produce new cultural content and has sadly contributed to the degradation of a sector whose production was hailed and applauded throughout the world and which constituted a very important value for external projection. Moreover, according to data from the Federation of Associations of Businesses of Theatre and Dance, only in the first year of application of the increase of the VAT the collection of the cultural services has dropped of more than 26 % and therefore no more than 84 million euros. About 4 million spectators - 29% - have stopped attending shows regularly. More than 1,800 direct jobs have been lost, with a much higher cost of unemployment than the increase in VAT, around EUR 14.5 million in the first year. That is, as I said before, from the point of view of economic interest, this measure has also been a ruin. The data are chilling and yet the Government remains imperishable. You know why? Because this was not just a fiscal and economic decision. This has been an ideological measure of the People's Party, because in the background culture bothers you. You see culture as entertainment and not as a right, but generating culture, generating knowledge, generating critical thinking and spreading it is betting on a more democratic society. You have done quite the opposite: you have raised the VAT rate by 13 points, you have reduced public budgets for culture and you have incomprehensiblely delayed the adoption of the law of patronage, an unprecedented hack into culture, a decision that has impoverished the country culturally and will undoubtedly pass you a bill. A government committed to culture should do its utmost to reverse that situation and, although there are many voices in the People's Party that have been shown to be in agreement with the drop in cultural VAT - to quote some of the soundiest, that of the deputy president of the government herself just a year ago - the facts prove the opposite. I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Party, that if you really think, if you really consider the possibility of reconsidering this rise, you vote in favour of this bill today, as your fellow Members of the People's Party abstained in the Parliament of Catalonia a few months ago. Open the debate, anticipate the government and let us begin to legislate on a justice issue. Every Government should have as its fundamental objective to work to improve conditions of access to culture, to work to correct its imbalances and to work to defend citizens'rights. Culture cannot be treated either as a luxury or as a commodity. Culture is a right and with a tax increase of 13 points you are hindering and limiting the access and exercise of that right. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, to guarantee access to culture is to bet on freedom, because it promotes creativity and free and critical thinking. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is equality, equal opportunities, and putting obstacles to access to culture you achieve the opposite: you create inequalities and condemn an entire generation to ignorance. Let yourself be left with tax and collection criteria that have proved useless and have a little more sensitivity, a little more cultural sensitivity, a little more social sensitivity, a little more soul, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a little more soul. The cultural rise has been a mistake that has sunk a whole sector and has not achieved the benefits it intended. Three years have been more than enough to check it out. It has been a mistake that has not benefited anyone, a mistake that must be corrected, and the sooner they realize that, the better for everyone. Today you have a chance, gentlemen of the People's Party, to repair that mistake. Today they have a magnificent opportunity to repair an injustice. I ask you to take advantage of it and allow this motion for a law of the Parliament of Catalonia to begin the process in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vallès. For the People's Group, Mr Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. I also wanted to join the words of welcome which the rest of my colleagues have expressed to the three Members of Parliament of Catalonia. As a Catalan I am, it is always a joy that you come here, that you defend your ideas and that you have a presence in this Chamber. Before I go into the matter at hand, I would like to refer to a number of adjectives that I have been listening to throughout the debate. I find it rather curious that in order to defend culture, expressions of the kind are used: they are captives of Francoism, political masons, that we promote destructive measures, that we are making attacks, that we are disturbing the culture, that we are punishing the sector, disculturalize the country, mistreat, insult, unintelligent stubbornness. If this is the way you have to defend culture...! It's curious. These expressions, Madam President, some I think offensive, of course I will ask you to withdraw them from the Minutes. Now let's talk about the thing and try to polish some of the expressions that have seemed to me demagogic and pure-state electoralists. Why do we raise VAT? When we joined the government, how was the country? By €70 billion the state's revenue had fallen; 3.5 million jobs destroyed in the last four years; absolutely crazy public deficit, 9%; millions and millions of euros in bills payable in cash registers and thousands of businesses, including cultural ones, that did not charge public administrations. [[Rumors.- Mrs López i Chamosa utters words that are not perceived.-A honourable Member: Yes, yes, yes.]] That was the situation we faced when we acceded to the Government. Did we have to take a series of urgent measures? Of course, we had to take a number of urgent measures. Did we have to raise some taxes? Of course, it was the first step we took. They can believe we didn't like it, come and see that the first thing we had to do was raise taxes. We had to. Among other measures, what was done? He was bet to raise VAT on cultural products. The VAT on other products was not increased, but that on the part of the cultural products did, in fact, increase from 8 % to 21 %. Why do we raise VAT? To increase the collection, to prevent Spain from going bankrupt, to avoid the corralito, to avoid what they were talking about at the time, to black men. The situation was what it was, and it was not what it was because we would have ruled during the previous legislature. It is precisely the PSOE that had ruled in this country the previous legislature and was at least a little responsible for the economic situation that we are in the country. Now the same, the PSOE that left you the country bankrupt - President Zapatero had to run away; yes, the legislature did not finish, did not approve nor the budget, quit - and left the risk premium at 420 points, that same PSOE asks us not to raise taxes and give us lessons of economic policy and employment. It's that same PSOE. I think it's curious. I also find it curious that there are criticisms in fiscal matters - the People's Party has raised taxes - and that these criticisms come nothing more and nothing less than from Catalonia, an autonomous community that I obviously know, but which is the autonomous community that has created the most taxes in the last three years. It is not my opinion - I already know that you now do not believe us -: La Vanguardia - which is not suspicious -: Catalonia will launch in 2014 a flood of new taxes and taxes, successions, the highest autonomous stretch of all Spain. And you are the ones who say to us, "Don't raise taxes." And you have put everything up, and what you have not put up has created it new. They planted up to create a tax on soft drinks. You, legitimacy to talk about fiscal policy, zero, zero. Does VAT affect industry? Sure. Is this the most important factor affecting the cultural industry? No, no, The economic crisis affects the cultural and non-cultural sectors, all over the world. When we experience an economic crisis, when GDP in Spain declines, when employment is systematically destroyed in our country, cultural enterprises also logically notice it, it is obvious, they have noticed it and there have been harmful effects on the cultural sector, but to say that all the evils of the cultural sector are a consequence of the rise of VAT is to deceive people. I don't think she's the cause of all the evils. We have done a great deal to improve culture in this country and it has produced some results. I'm going to give you four data. In 2014, the last year of which we know data, Spanish cinema achieves the best box office data in history, last year, 75% better than in 2013. In 2014, employment in the Spanish cultural industry grew by 36,000 people, another fact that does not appear in the debate. Our museums received 1.86 million visitors in 2011. In 2014 - the last year we know - there have been a million more visitors to the Spanish museums than in 2011. Musical billing grew by 21%. In short, everything will not be wrong, because some data is positive, and you would gain in objectivity if you said something is done well, but everything the People's Party does is wrong and we are like murderers, carpenters, captives of Francoism that we want to carry our culture. Curious. Three. Cultural VAT does not exist. You talk all the time about cultural VAT. Are books culture or are they not? They're culture, aren't they? 4 % VAT. They talk about cultural VAT as if all cultural products were 21 %. It's fake. They're deceiving people all the time. The newspapers and magazines, also 4%, the super-reduced. Library services, archives, documentation centres, museums, art galleries, art galleries, private art imports are charged at 10 %. That's not art either, that's not culture either. Good. When these services are offered by public law entities and private social entities, they are exempt. That's culture too. When you talk about cultural VAT, you talk about that too. No, let's fool everyone, let's say that everything that smells like culture in Spain is 21 % because the People's Party is very bad. You lie blatantly and, therefore, are deceiving and manipulating. It is also false what they say that the People's Party wants to destroy culture, that we are murderers and terrorists of culture. It's amazing what I've heard here this afternoon. We think that culture itself is a social value, it is an indispensable basic asset of our country, in addition to one of the key pieces of the Spanish economic takeoff. We know that this is 4% of Spanish GDP and we will therefore continue to help with measures such as those that I will now detail to you. We've been fighting piracy like nobody else. Since governing the Spanish People's Party, it is no longer on the list of countries with abundant piracy. It's not, they've taken us off the list, and I'm not saying it, it's said by the producers themselves and by those responsible for Spanish cinema. We have generally lowered the corporation tax, which also affects cultural enterprises and especially deductions in the field of film production. We passed last week, with the consensus of the whole sector, the Royal Decree-Law amending the Film Act. They haven't talked about this either. It was approved last week. The entire film industry has voted in favour of this measure. We've introduced deductions into the IRPF related to micromecenation. We have agreed with the sector on the subsidy system. We have promoted important tax deductions so that international series and films can be shot in Spain. This week was news the recording in Girona and Peñíscola of the famous series Game of Thrones, and it is no coincidence. The same producer in the series said it, it's published, I've seen it around here today: Tax incentives bring Game of Thrones back to Spain. Tax incentives. Tax policy is not just VAT. It's VAT and other things. When you talk about taxes and taxation and omit the rest of the tax figures, the only thing you want to do is get a little bit of electoral revenue and get together, get behind a banner, but with little political rigour from my point of view. We have also seen in the press these days that the IMF was asking us to increase VAT on certain products. It was published yesterday: The IMF asks Spain to increase VAT on certain products. We're not doing it. Is the People's Party willing to lower cultural VAT? Of course. Is the People's Party carrying down taxes on its DNA? Yeah. Do we want them down? Yes, when the economic situation permits, we will. We in this Parliament have an obligation to square the accounts in Spain. No one is going to ask for money for us in international markets and it is we who have to get this country ahead, reduce the deficit and pay for basic social services. That is why it is also important that this factor be taken into account. Therefore, as far as the situation can be reversed, we will do so - we have said it on some occasions, the Minister of Culture has said so - and, as far as possible, we will try to lower VAT on these cultural products when the economic situation, of course, is improving. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Gallego. We wish to express our gratitude to the delegation of the Parliament of Catalonia, which this afternoon accompanied us on this point. [[Mr. Canongia Gerona utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Canongia, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u25	We move on to the next item on the agenda. It is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the creation of the tax on the deduction of income in abuse of law and the amendment of Law 58/2003 of 17 December, General Tax. Mr Rangel has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u26	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group, the creation of a tax on the deduction of income from abuse of law and the amendment of the General Tax Act. If I may, since we have had a debate in which most of the groups have called for the reduction of a tax such as VAT on cultural activity, this proposal for a law proposed by the Socialist Group is precisely to generate revenue and better distribute the tax burden. They will therefore agree with me that it is timely and necessary to discuss it and take it into account, at least I hope, on the part of the People's Group, that so much has been complained about in the previous point. They know that globalization is not a new phenomenon, but the pace of integration of national economies and markets has increased significantly in recent years. So much so that this phenomenon has generated a change of business paradigm that, starting from country-specific operating models, has led to new global models. Not in vain is the weight of multinationals in the world's gross domestic product increasing. On the other hand, the pace of globalization has been quite different, to say the least, in adapting to the change experienced by the public authorities in order to regulate economic activity and subject it to the general interest. The asymmetric evolution of globalization has given primacy to the unequal logic of the market to the detriment of the egalitarian logic of democracy. On the other hand, from the point of view of compliance with tax obligations, international treaties and agreements have focused more on avoiding double taxation than the tax avoidance of multinational corporations. The growing importance of the services sector within a globalized economy and that of digital products in particular has made it easier for companies to locate many of their productive activities in geographical locations far from the physical location of their customers, which is precisely where they generate their benefits. In the tax field this has resulted in a phenomenon known as the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, in its acronym BEPS In this sense it should be remembered that these sophisticated tax avoidance formulas, apart from the obvious consequences that they have on public finances in the form of lower incomes, have negative consequences with respect to the competitiveness of the business fabric, especially in the digital and technological industry, which are engaged in competing in a global world in inequality of conditions by incuring higher tax costs simply by complying with the law. [[Base Erosion and Profit Shifting]] This is having harmful effects on our economy, which also reproduces equally in the European countries of our environment, and in particular this phenomenon of unfair competition competes in those more dynamic sectors of our economy focused on the knowledge economy. Apart from this, these tax pathologies damage the collective consciousness of our citizens, who attend unfailingly to these de-imposition phenomena that directly attack the foundations of our social contract. In this context, from the Spanish perspective, it advocates combating this aggressive fiscal planning with harmonised measures to be adopted within international organisations such as the OECD and the European Union. Thus, Spain is firmly committed to the development of instruments such as the one I mentioned earlier, BEPS action, or to the process of tax harmonisation of corporate tax in the European Union as effective tools to combat aggressive international tax planning. Notwithstanding the above, the Spanish Government cannot lose its initiative in this area, which is the capital of our country's economy, so that, as long as effective measures are not taken in multilateral forums, Spain can and must undertake the implementation of such measures unilaterally in the same way as that pointed out by other countries in our environment. In this context, in order to combat the mechanisms of abusive international tax planning, our proposal for the introduction of the tax on the deduction of income from abuse of law, which seeks to tax the profits diverted through cross-border tax engineering operations, is framed. The introduction of this tax is built on two elements, firstly, the modification of the legal regime of the conflict in the application of the tax rule of article 15 of the General Tax Law as a general anti-abuse rule within the Spanish tax law; secondly, through the substantive regulation of the tax. With regard to the amendment of the General Tax Law, this change implies the legal anchoring for the very implementation of the tax in so far as only factual assumptions that are qualified as conflict may give rise in their case to the taxable fact of the tax, that is, when the international business or operation qualified as such is carried out in order to detract certain income from the subjection of the Spanish Public Finance is when the factual assumption is made. This requirement for a conflict rating in application of the tax rule implies a strengthening of the instruments to combat the large tax fraud generated by aggressive tax planning without prejudice to the rights and guarantees of taxable persons affected by the rule, since the rating requires a favourable and mandatory report by the advisory commission regulated by the General Tax Act, in its article 159, which gives more objectivity to any administrative action that may be carried out. The other element on which the tax is built is the regulation of the tax itself called, as has been said, tax on the deduction of income from abuse of rights. This tax is defined as a tax different from corporation tax, personal income tax or income tax of non-residents of a specific nature, with a tax rate of 35 %, which imposes all those non-taxable profits derived from cross-border tax engineering operations carried out in the form of abuse of rights carried out on the grounds of tax evasion. An essential element of the system is that, since it is a specific tax that cannot be identified either with corporate tax or with the IRPF or with the income tax of non-residents, it would not be included in the material scope of the networks of agreements - in order to avoid double taxation - signed by Spain, so that the tax could be implemented unilaterally. In addition, such a feature would avoid the tortuous use of the treaty networks for tax avoidance purposes. In order to avoid double taxation and to meet its anti-abuse objectives, all businesses or transactions in which the taxpayers concerned prove that the income has been subject to the Spanish tax or to the tax of another tax jurisdiction that can be approved shall not be subject to tax. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the tax evasion that we are facing, the answer cannot be that of laissez-faire, laissez-passer. We cannot allow the problem to get worse and, with it, the tendency towards increasing inequality within our society, nor can we allow the model of a minimum or low-cost state to be adopted by neoliberal policies to be regarded as a good one, as inevitable; at least from the Socialist Group we are not going to allow it. The social emergency situation in which we find ourselves demands clear and compelling answers, in this case against tax evasion and avoidance practices such as those we have described as not only being ethically rejectable, but also seriously distorting, as we have also mentioned, our economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in our hand to make policy govern the economy again so that it can be able to re-guarante the social cohesion policies that the Spaniards are demanding of us. We therefore call for the House's support for the consideration of this bill that we are debating today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we share the philosophy and measures set out in this bill in order to avoid the legal abuses that lead to multinational companies, fundamentally, to evade, to evade, to ultimately defraud the public finances and citizens; we will therefore support them. In this respect, we have always stated that there have been debates or measures aimed at combating tax fraud. It has always been something entrepreneurship - but much more after suffering the consequences of the economic crisis that still persists - than the big fortunes, than the big companies, that the multinationals evade the payment of taxes with what they call fiscal engineering or financial engineering. It is a technology that, in addition to reporting high emoluments to a multitude of offices and consultants, basically all it claims is that its customers, large companies or multinationals, are insolidary by not paying taxes. From the point of view of social policy, of social justice, of equity and of politics itself, we must prevent this from happening and, as far as we can, prevent such behaviour from being possible. We must cover the legislative loopholes so that the smart advisers cannot set up tax instruments to encourage fraud. I know that it is not easy and that the forces of evil, in this sense, are many. I know that the international cooperation of normal or normalized countries is necessary, as well as the cooperation of tax havens, international institutions and agencies. I also know that interests are not always the same, and this is precisely what makes this coordination difficult. [[The Lord]] This debate and the tax itself should be European, as should the tax on international financial transactions for which, after years and years of debate, we are still waiting for them to be put into operation. However, we believe that progress should be made in this area in the absence of consensus and cooperation from other countries or institutions. That is why we will support this initiative, despite the fact that those who bring it to this House know in the background that at this time it is nothing more than an electoral initiative. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you know that this initiative is not going to be dealt with, that we are at the end of the legislature and that there is no time for it. Surely a new parliamentary majority will soon set up this House and I seriously hope that at the beginning of the next parliamentary term a proposal similar to this one, with the same intention, which is not bad, for it to prosper. I also hope that when a tax reform is proposed, account will be taken of the territorial reality of the State, which - I always insist and believe that it is necessary to do so once again - has five hacienda: that of the State or common territory, that of Álava, that of Vizcaya, that of Guipúzcoa and that of Nafarroa. You don't have to forget that. This means that we have to rely on the rest of the finances, parliaments or general councils to push forward these kinds of reforms that cannot be done alone. If we proceed in this way in the future, with respect for the competitive framework and with the spirit of the necessary collaboration, we will certainly be able to count on our ideas and our support. Otherwise, we will continue to denounce the statutory breach and the breaking of the rules of the game. Let us hope that this will not be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in an international reality characterized by the increasing limitation of the sovereignty of States, due, inter alia, to the combination of communicative and economic globalization processes. At the current stage of development of globalization, the media and multinational corporations have merged, giving rise to transnational corporations of information and knowledge whose main economic activity focuses on the provision of intangible services and goods using global financial and communication networks. This, of course, implies greater complexity in determining the volume and economic value of their activities and services in each country, also creating greater difficulty in determining the tax burdens they must bear. At the same time, the most developed States, including Spain, have long assumed that their economic growth is intrinsically associated with economic and political integration with other States. In short, the economic, commercial, financial and fiscal policy of a developed country such as Spain cannot be dictated solely by unilateral criteria which ignore the links of interdependence with its European partners and with the rest of the countries with which important and intense economic relations are maintained. Our parliamentary group agrees with the text of this bill, in the diagnosis made in its preamble on the need to address the new forms of tax avoidance practised by multinational companies, especially those operating in the global market for new information and knowledge technologies. It would be stupid to ignore that the consolidation of a global market associated with these new technologies has paved the way for new forms of business and services that until just a few years ago were non-existent or marginal, but that today and especially in the coming decades will concentrate a very important part of the world's gross domestic product. Companies like Google, Microsoft, Apple, Texas Instruments, eBay, Cisco Systems, Amazon, Verizon Communications, Oracle, make up the core of the twenty-five largest global information and communication technology companies, with annual sales of almost half a billion dollars in 2013. Obviously, our parliamentary group also shares with the proposed law the application of the constitutional duty enshrined in article 31.1 and, therefore, the aim of legal regulation and administrative action by the Tax Agency to circumvent or circumvent its tax burdens, especially when legal distortion, abuse of law and accounting manipulation procedures are used that are only available to a few companies and/or individuals. However, precisely because of the economic importance and social scope of these tax avoidance activities, their legal treatment must be particularly rigorous and their administrative application must be exhaustive in order for their collection effects to be truly effective. It is precisely in this area, that of legal rigour, where our parliamentary group raises its main objections to this proposed law. These objections can be summed up in three: extraterritorial unilateralism, legal contradictions and practical ineffectiveness. Extraterritorial unilateralism. The text of the proposed law itself states in its preamble - I quote literally - that as long as effective measures are not taken in multilateral forums, Spain can and must undertake the implementation of such measures unilaterally. And later it is categorically stated - I quote literally - that an essential element of the system is that, being a specific tax that cannot be identified either with corporate tax or with the IRPF or with the IRNR, it is not included within the material scope of the networks of conventions signed by Spain to avoid double taxation. In other words, the express intention of this bill is that in order to combat an elusive international practice of Spanish taxation, our country unilaterally decides to create a tax that does not exist in other countries with which it has regulated the information system and double taxation by international treaties and above all to apply it extraterritorially. Because, in fact, it is a question of applying this new tax to the activities of legal or natural persons resident in another tax jurisdiction who, by applying international conventions to avoid double taxation, carry out artificial actions or procedures to transfer part of their income generated in Spain to that tax jurisdiction, where it assumes the corresponding taxation, generally lower than the Spanish one. To seek to legislate by circumventing international legal commitments to combat the tax avoidance of multinationals seems to me to want to fight fire with gasoline. It is surprising that while 80 OECD countries, including Spain, set up a working group on 27 May for the development of a multilateral convention establishing the action plan against erosion of the tax base and transfer of profits, the proposed law addresses the path of legal unilateralism in this area. [[The Lord]] Legal contradictions. The proposal for a law also involves major contradictions or conflicts with other legal rules that cannot be ignored when determining the position of our parliamentary group; first, with European legislation. Indeed, Council Directive 2015/121 of 27 January 2015 amending Council Directive 2011/96 of 30 November 2011 on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States requires, in Article 2, that legal treatment to prevent the deduction of income from abuse of rights should be carried out within the framework of the application of the directives already adopted and not outside them. Therefore, the Spanish State cannot legally ignore this mandate without falling into legal infringement before the European authorities, an experience to which successive governments of the PP and PSOE have repeatedly accustomed us with the consequent economic damage to all Spaniards. It will suffice to recall the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the so-called health cent of 27 February 2014 or the European Commission's proposal for a sanction for aid to the shipbuilding industry granted between 2007 and 2011. Our parliamentary group will not support such reckless conduct in legal terms. If this was not sufficient to reject the proposal for a law, the text itself contains an appreciable legal inconsistency with the General Tax Act by considering as a new taxable fact what in purity is nothing more than a particular case of the assumptions generally regulated in article 15.1. In any event, and in order to ensure better implementation of the above-mentioned Directive, it would be sufficient for the proposed law to explicitly include a new paragraph in Article 15, without creating a new tax figure. A third contradiction lies in the fact that, by unilaterally creating a new tax other than corporation tax, the IRPF and the IRNR to a particular case of activities already regulated by taxation and outside European directives, it breaks the general principle of mutual assistance regulated in Article 1 of the General Tax Act, as well as the hierarchy of sources set out in Article 7.1 of the General Tax Act. Finally, as a no less important consideration to explain the negative meaning of the vote of our parliamentary group, it should be pointed out that the new tax, if the proposed law were adopted, would have little effectiveness in tax collection, among other reasons, because the creation of a new tax will not automatically and significantly increase tax collection if it is not accompanied by a parallel increase in human and material resources intended for the inspection and control of compliance with the new tax obligations arising from that tax. This is all the more true since, as in the case we are considering, those who will be liable to tax benefit from the best accounting experts, tax advisors and lawyers' law firms able to successfully argue before national and European courts about the nullity of the new legal rule, in addition to doing so about the adequacy of their clients' actions in the new tax figure, defined in terms of abuse of law. In this regard, the proposed law makes no reference to the allocation of more human and material resources of the Tax Agency for the management and inspection of the new tax, a gap that has probably been made to avoid government control under article 126.2 of the Rules of Courts, which, if applied, would have ruined the expectations created in public opinion with the submission of this proposed law, but which seriously limits its effectiveness. Our group does not believe that legislation should be legislated outside our European and international partners, let alone in such a legally inconsistent way. That is why our vote will be against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group welcomes this proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Group because we believe that there are sufficient grounds for the debate. You may be late, but it's never too late when you have to deal with a problem. It is true that a problem has to be tackled because at the moment there is a tremendous injustice that needs to be solved, an injustice that is not random, that is the result of a system, that is the result of a drift, that is the result of when economic interests take precedence over the interests of the human being. It is necessary to tackle this situation in a globalized economy, in an economy where large transnational corporations are the ones that really direct people's lives and to do so they also use all kinds of strategies, including in this case the fiscal and financial ones, to achieve the greatest benefits, even at the cost of causing problems, causing harm to the public coffers, which is nothing more or less than causing them to the people, who are then the ones who have to solve their problems, their way of life from those public coffers. When damage is caused to public coffers, when money is evaded, when there is no just tax system, it is people who have problems with the financing of education, health care or infrastructure. We are not dealing with a small question, we are not dealing with a theoretical question, we are dealing with a question that has a direct impact on people's lives because when it breaks, when the rules of competition in favour of the big ones are distorted, it always loses the small one. These procedures are not only known, they are also helped in many cases by the laws of the States. In the case of the Spanish State it is the case of foreign securities holding entities, for example, which also goes further in this same problem, which comes more to facilitate this business, this benefit of transnational companies to the detriment of the national economy. Not only is there a clear abandonment on the part of the public authorities, but there is, to some extent, also a collaboration, a certain collaboration between these public sectors and transnationals. Here I can not fail to highlight how there is all kind of control for people, how the system cares that people have the maximum control, while for capital everything is facilities to get benefits. People's lives are regulated and business benefits are deregulated. That has a name, and it is to put the economy at the service of the interest of a minority and not of the interest of the majority. We therefore believe that we need to move towards a new regulation in the European Union. Obviously, for that we would also have to go to another model of the European Union. A summit between the European Union and the Celac will be held in Brussels these days. It would be good for this European Union to take an example of other models of territorial integration where people are taking precedence over economic interests! Therefore, questioning these elements is calling into question the very structure of the European Union. New regulations would also have to be faced in the Spanish State. There should also be a regulatory regulation that must be based on a logic that underpins this situation, that companies, capital, must have controls, that there must be democratic planning of the economy, that there must be control so that financial companies are subject to the productive economy and fundamentally to democracy; that is, that there must be democracy also in the economy, that there cannot be dark spots, that there cannot be places in the economy that are not subject to citizen control, that there must be popular control. When in a world there are places, primarily in the economy, which are not controlled by parliaments, by no democratic institution, something is failing, we are changing the system by pretending that we do not realize. That is called the dictatorship of capital, the dictatorship of markets. You paint us a democracy that can give us the right to vote every four years, but those who really control, those who really win the elections don't come to them, but are the ones behind these companies that really legislate in their favor, and then become mere administrators of governments and parliaments. We agree with this debate, we agree with this initiative, but we consider it short. We have to go to a tax reform, we have to go to a new tax model, we have to go to a new tax modality so that in this new framework these problems can really be tackled in their full extent and not just remain on a partial issue that can obviously be a breakthrough, but that does not go to the bottom of the problem of how we are able to subject capital to democratic controls, how we put democracy above capital and people above interests. That is what is supporting the current crisis, which is supporting its economic policy, in short, which is supporting an increasingly unfair and increasingly unequal world. When we are proposing our alternative, we do not only partially, we are proposing a global alternative to its system that has led to poverty and desperation for millions of people. Our group will vote in favour of the procedure. We understand that it is good that it is processed, it is good the debate, but we have doubts about some aspects of the law. Obviously, the law is not passed here. One may disagree with the law but agree that the debate is taking place and that this situation needs to be regulated and resolved, because the worst thing is to leave it as it is. We therefore have doubts and will be submitting amendments throughout the process of the law. For example, we believe that there are situations that would make it difficult to implement the new tax. If this tax were implemented unilaterally, it would not prevent the use of networks, of conventions that had this purpose of tax avoidance, because territorial taxation was proposed and the second article of the conventions signed by Spain in accordance with the OECD model could not be drawn up. I mean, it can be something with very good intentions, but then it's kind of useless. Secondly, we do not understand that if a resident company is required to pay tax quotas on those circumvented companies, which are not residents, a new tax is required. In this situation one could think more of a sanctioning attitude than of an impossive attitude that is where we should go. I repeat, these are elements that do not enter into today's debate. What we want to highlight today is the need that the economy cannot be at the service of the interests of the minority, that globalization is not a mantra that is repeated and that covers everything. Globalization means inequality, it means greater poverty for some and greater wealth for a few, it means that in this world most of the wars that are taking place are based on those interests and that the destruction of the planet is also made based on the same interests, a system that is unjust in itself and that one day I hope that it will be replaced by another system that is more just and more egalitarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. Mrs Riera has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from my group I would like to make three brief comments on this initiative presented by the Socialist Party, on which my group has already expressed its concern and our willingness to find solutions to the problem. My first consideration is on the content of this initiative; from my parliamentary group we share the substance but we doubt the effectiveness of the proposed formula. The aim of this initiative presented by the Socialist Party is to combat sophisticated tax avoidance and to force large multinational companies, especially those in the digital economy that are shielded from complex and aggressive tax planning, to tax on the profits actually obtained in Spain through corporation tax. This objective is fully shared by Convergence i Unió and, in fact, pursues the same purpose as the oral question that we put and that our spokesman for Economics and Finance, on December 17, 2014, made to the Minister of Finance. This question emphasized what we consider to be terribly unfair in Convergence and Unió, which is the fact that the eight largest international technology companies operating in Spain and billing hundreds of millions of euros, in 2013 only contributed about 17 million euros for the profit tax. Therefore, Convergence i Unió proposed to the Minister of Finance that the actual profits obtained in Spain by international companies be taxed by permanent establishment. However, despite the fact that the purpose of the proposal was the same as that proposed today by the Socialist Group, it is also true that the formula we put forward at the time, from the parliamentary group I represent, to correct these imbalances is different. In this sense, the Socialist Party proposes to create a tax on the deduction of income in abuse of rights of nature, that is, a tax similar to the colloquially called Google tax in the United Kingdom. However, Convergence i Unió seems or is questionable the effectiveness of this new tax because this type of tax has been created according to a tax system other than Spanish, since the English regime is based on the actual obligation - that is, it is taxed on the revenues obtained in the territory - while in the Spanish case it is based on the personal obligation, that is, that tax those taxpayers considered tax resident both for the revenues obtained in the territory and those obtained abroad. Therefore, in our view, rather than creating a new tax that would also be difficult to fit with the current double taxation agreements, we believe and are convinced that it would be more convenient and more efficient to promote measures so that the Tax Agency can require all international companies with permanent establishment in Spain to tax on the actual profits obtained as separate and independent companies from the matrix. This would prevent these companies from taxing only in Spain on the income received by a Commission company which is, in essence, the objective of this new tax. My first consideration, therefore, is that while we agree with the purpose of this proposal, we would have to ascertain and discuss the small letter contained in it in order to find a more effective response within the Spanish tax system, as well as international taxation rules. The second consideration I would like to make is in line with progress in cooperation and transparency. In this area, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more progress and more effectiveness are needed in tax cooperation and information coordination. I would like to emphasize the opportunity and the need underlying the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal, and that, apart from the appreciation of how it intends to combat sophisticated tax avoidance or aggressive tax planning, the consideration of this initiative offers an opportunity to debate this issue, and this for my group is also fundamental. Opening this debate can be a decisive step, because we need to improve transparency in international taxation; we have always insisted on this from my group. In fact, a few days ago, the OECD under the BEPS project has published a series of recommendations for countries that will allow tax administrations to fully understand how multinational companies structure their operations, ensuring the confidentiality of the information they communicate. We understand that this initiative and these recommendations are good news and are in the right direction. Adopting these recommendations and advancing inter-country cooperation to ensure that information is shared is an essential step in the fight against tax avoidance by large multinationals and must be a priority for any Government. It is necessary - I insist - to move forward within the framework of projects such as the one promoted by the OECD, the project called BEPS, to reform international taxation and to ensure that the profits of multinational companies are declared where they are generated or where economic activities are carried out or where value is generated, in the end, to ensure that they are taxed just as the profits of any other type of company or self-employed are taxed. My third point is on the European front, because I understand that it is necessary to urge the European authorities to move forward, in terms of European harmonisation, in the company tax. Within the framework of this strict cooperation in the field of taxation between countries, in Convergence i Unió we believe that a very effective and powerful measure to combat the most aggressive cross-border tax planning, on which the Government should insist and persist before the European authorities, would be the idea and proposal to harmonise the tax base of corporate tax among the countries of the European Union. This would allow for no tax competition to attract investment between States, which in turn would facilitate the non-existence of tax diversions. With this, we sincerely believe that there would be fairer and fairer taxation within the European Union. This is a proposal to take into account and on which the Government should study, insist and work. Having made these three considerations, our parliamentary group - as I have already made progress in my speech - will support the consideration of this legislative initiative, stating and reiterating that, beyond sharing the objective pursued, it is necessary to open a legislative debate on the forms and solutions to this problem, bearing in mind that this is a European problem and I would say that international and therefore more harmonised solutions at European level would be not only necessary but welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riera. For the People's Group, Mrs Asian has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to do is to congratulate the Socialist Group, because after three and a half years of parliamentary life it has finally found a gap in making a concrete tax proposal. So far, the only thing that the Finance spokesman of the main opposition group has done has been to oppose and criticize each and every one of the measures that have been brought to this House, to lie to the Spaniards by saying that the special tax declaration whitens criminal conduct; and what is worse, not to rectify when the facts have shown that it did not tell the truth. The Socialist Group has voted against a tax reduction that benefits all Spaniards, but especially those with low and middle incomes. The Socialist Group has voted against lowering the rate of personal income tax from 24% to 19%. The Socialist Group has voted against a reduction in the IRPF from 23.47 % to 72 % of Spanish taxpayers, who have incomes below EUR 24,000. But I have to congratulate the Socialist Group on making a concrete fiscal proposal, although in our view it is wrong and, in addition, it highlights the shortcomings of socialist management in the previous parliamentary term. I can understand that when experience has consisted of a decrease in corporate tax collection of 63 % - from more than €44 billion in 2007 to just over 16,000 in 2011 - the large taxpayers are at an effective average rate of 3.8 and some large IBEX companies at 0% and you want to hide this reality with a layer of makeup consisting of the creation of a new tax. But why did the fall in corporate tax collection occur? Half of this fall occurred because the profits of the companies had fallen - that is true - but the other half of the fall in corporation tax was caused by the permissiveness of socialist management: measures such as allowing freedom of amortization without requiring job creation or allowing the deduction of artificial financial expenses. - In Spain we put the financial expenditure and the income we are still looking in which country it had put itself. All this gives rise to a spectacular fall in the collection of corporation tax and in particular of large taxpayers. What happened, gentlemen of the Socialist Group? Didn't they know how to raise taxes on big taxpayers or didn't they want to? Faced with this, today the new company tax has already been simplified, deductions have been eliminated and, therefore, the doors have been closed to tax planning, tax engineering and other ways of circumventing the payment of the tax. But not only has there been a formal regulatory change, but also the application of the tax system has been exemplary. Here are the results of the fight against fraud: 12.3 billion euros in 2014; record figure, 35 billion euros in the last three years, 21.5 % more than in the last three years of the socialist government. Perhaps these results will help us to understand the fact that the capacity, rigour, independence of the staff of the Tax Agency has not been called into question and that we have provided it with the appropriate tools to enable them to carry out their assigned functions brilliantly. Of course, multinational corporations use mechanisms to circumvent the payment of taxes that reflect on whether the principle of national sovereignty, on which international fiscal governance revolves, is not out of date today, but that is why simultaneous and coordinated action by all States is important. Thus, the new Commissioner of Competition in her first statements said: It is necessary to harmonise corporation tax in order to avoid tax evasion. Multinational companies take advantage of this lack of harmonization in corporate tax to artificially transfer profits to low- and zero-tax countries and territories by eroding tax bases and creating unfair tax competition among all States. What's the good news? The good news is that international public opinion has changed and new exchanges of information are taking place today in international forums, for example the signing of agreements with traditionally opaque territories such as Switzerland, Andorra or Channel Islands; actions integrated into the so-called BEPS programme, a programme sponsored by the OECD at the request of the G-20 and involving 44 countries. United States has also overcome its initial reluctance to have specific regulations for international information technology companies. Spain has led in recent years and has made a great effort for greater fiscal and financial integration, in particular for the establishment of a tax on financial transactions, but also in the domestic sphere it has introduced numerous measures: the creation of an international tax unit, model 720 to declare goods and rights abroad, country-to-country declaration in the new company tax. Because much talk about the circumvention of payment by multinationals, but until this government has collected the obligation to declare country by country in operations was not done. Perhaps all these changes have contributed to Amazon saying that from 1 May it will tax in Spain for sales operations carried out on national territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it seems that they have recently discovered that anomalous or improper businesses are being used to circumvent the payment of the tax, but this is a concern that the tax legislator has always had, of course since 1963, when tax fraud was regulated in the General Tax Act. The novel was, in 2003 - it has already rained a lot - the regulation of the conflict in application of the tax rule, as a reaction of the legal system to abusive and aggressive tax planning. The conflict under the rule is nothing more than a tax system closure clause, a generic anti-abuse or anti-circumvention clause. What have been the results of the conflict under the rule? If we look at the liquidations that have taken place, the reports that the advisory commission has issued, the multinational companies have had this kind of file. And what has been, in most cases, the conduct of these multinationals? The use of artificial financial costs that have been transferred from our country. In Spain, financial expenditure was charged and income was put on. We don't know where. This has been the use of conflict in application of the norm. With this, I return to the beginning of my speech: They left many doors open to fiscal planning, many doors open to circumvention, which today are corrected. How can a new tax be proposed whose taxable act requires the prior declaration of the conflict in application of the rule? How will a tax be paid on the basis of an administrative decision? Do you not know the principle of reserve of law in tax matters? In addition, how are they going to charge a conflict tax in the application of the rule when the operator and the tax system itself has the mechanisms to pay the circumvented tax? How is a tax going to be required that leaves out concealment, fraud, deception, falsehood? What is the role of the proposal? A strategy for public opinion, to say that an attempt is being made to solve a problem which, in reality, is not solved? Because the problem of multinationals is not solved unilaterally, as various groups have explained here, and much less by demanding a new tax whose taxable act has a wrong configuration, which in practice would cause its failure to apply, and which also leaves out precisely those conducts constitutive of the most recalcitrant fraud, because I say again that the conflict only refers to the circumvention itself, not to the evasion nor much less to the fraud. It seems, therefore, in a short story, that the Socialist Party has heard bells: multinationals do not pay; but it does not analyse the causes, makes a bad diagnosis and comes here with an impossible proposal. That is why our group is going to vote against this bill, although I invite all groups to use the constructive elements that have been expressed in this debate in which we are going to have in the reform of the General Tax Act, in which new instruments will be created to prevent tax fraud, promoting compliance on a voluntary basis, and to provide greater legal certainty to the Administration and taxpayers, with the aim of making the tax system more just and more effective, an issue on which, as I have heard in this debate, we all agree. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Asian.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u38	No bill proposed by the People's Group on the conduct of a study on the development of the Law on Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons. To defend the initiative, Mrs Montesinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative, which I am presenting on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group - and we have every right, as the Rules of Procedure set out in the Rules of Procedure - intends to reaffirm our social commitment to dependent people and to further improve their assistance. We have already done so from the opposition in supporting the law and we are doing so today; some, from the Government, ensuring the sustainability of the system and others, from the People's Parliamentary Group, with initiatives such as this one whose goal is to start a working period to address those issues that we consider to be improveable in the dependency system. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors in its report on the management of the Unit Act from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2010 issued a worrying X-ray of the situation. The universality of the law had resulted in seventeen different systems. The Autonomous Communities largely failed to comply with the six-month maximum period set by law for the recognition of the right to receive a benefit. More than 300,000 people, i.e. 28.91%, were on the waiting list; there was unupdated information - deceased persons recognized as beneficiaries, duplicities, etc. -; the Imserso did not pay the full amount of debt contracted with Social Security, which reached €1,034 million and, unfortunately, in the last year of the previous Government, the funding of the unit was reduced by 234 million in 2011. The reform of the unit has set up a system that guarantees the quality, equity and sustainability of the unit by extending the catalogue of services and services to those voices that say it has been cut; by maintaining the rights of citizens, who are being guaranteed and by using the scale of assessment of the cases of entry to the system, which was approved by the last socialist government in February 2011, which is who marks, who enters and who does not. But everything can be improved, and since the beginning of the legislature the spirit of consensus that has prevailed in the actions of the government in this matter is materialized - forgive the redundancy - in what has been the actions in the last three years of the legislature. Since the People's Party Government, regulations have been ordered and simplified, the catalogue of services and benefits has been improved by extending to all levels the dependency and provision for staff assistance. The quality of care has been increased and job creation has been promoted by increasing the number of recognized professional services, thereby enforcing the law. Attention has been given to the large and severe dependents, who in the coverage rate reach 89% one year before what was foreseen by the law, who today received 97%. [[The Lord]] Attention to minors has been strengthened through agreement in the Territorial Council on common criteria, recommendations and minimum conditions for comprehensive care plans for children under three years of age, and the transparency of the information system has been improved. In other words, the evaluations are annual and are carried out by the Inter-Territorial Council, which turns the data of the unit on the website and in the Official State Gazette. On the other hand, the monthly ones are provisional and therefore they can vary. All information - I insist - on systems is published on the unit's portal and in the State Official Gazette in accordance with the Inter-Territorial Committee. The irregularities reflected by the Court of Auditors have been resolved, which has made it possible to recover EUR 39 million from the budgets. The debt recognized by the Socialist Government of 1,034 million as at 15 November 2011 has been paid. Ladies and gentlemen, the data from the system for autonomy and care at 31 December 2014 regarding - we will contrast the data - at 31 December 2011 - previously explained that the definitive data that are truly valued are those of an annual nature - they reflect, first, more beneficiaries with benefit - there are 745,720 beneficiaries entitled to benefit - 304,307 new beneficiaries of benefits have been incorporated, 40% of the current beneficiaries have been incorporated in the last three years, and fewer people are awaiting benefit, with a decrease of 51,62 %. There are more professional services, more employment, more coverage; the coverage rate, ladies and gentlemen, has risen from 71% in 2011 to 83.5% in 2014. All this information has been given with a crisis that we could not imagine and with the result of a mismanagement of that crisis that the previous Government left us - we can remember the more than 3.5 million unemployed, the risk premium triggered, etc. - and yet the Government guaranteed with enormous coverage assistance to the dependency. On 29 May, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors approved the monitoring report on the management and control measures taken by the Autonomous Communities for the proper implementation of the Unit Act, which in its conclusions notes a great deal of progress. It notes the effort to consolidate the regulatory development of the law, a positive development in the reduction of the deadlines for the recognition of the benefit, although unfortunately it must be emphasized that in communities like Andalusia, they are still at 310, which is what slows the average of all Spain. [[49 days national average]] The Court of Auditors also states that the number of outstanding applications has been significantly reduced in 2012 and 2013; that is, one out of every three persons in Spain in dependency who is waiting to receive their benefit lives in Andalusia, a community from which, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors reflects the opacity of the Board, which has not yet submitted the certification for budget implementation. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, what is important is that we must not forget that it is the autonomous communities that decide who is incorporated into the system; that the funding of the unit, whose model was agreed in 2009, during the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, is financed through two laws, the Law of Unity and that of autonomy. From the first day of implementation of the care system to the present day, progress is notorious and must continue to be strengthened. To this end, it needs to be evaluated and revised and to continue to improve and strengthen the pillars of the dependency system. We are all aware that the moderate dependents will be incorporated on 1 July and the care system will be completed. It is estimated that 300,000 new dependents will be incorporated. The Government has secured its appropriate funding. When these people enter the system, we will be in the ninth year of law enforcement and the timetable set out in the first final provision of the law will have been met. Therefore, after this period, we consider it appropriate to carry out an assessment of the degree of development of the law, and from there to draw up a new road map. It is important that we be able to do an in-depth study, a reflection of the most dispassionate and objective way possible of what the development of the system has entailed; what are the problems it presents, its shortcomings, above all what are the challenges of the future presented by the system of care for dependence. As Minister Alonso said, it is a question of seeing with courage and common sense what are the weaknesses in relation to all the issues, also with which they can be more controversial such as financing, the participation of users in the financing of the system, and fundamentally what is the relationship of the Unit System with the whole of social systems and, therefore, what is the vision of the future that we can share to make this model and this system evolve, with the aim that its conclusions will lay the groundwork for changing those aspects that are shown to be better and laying the basis for further work. All this with the consensus of the political groups and the actors involved. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Attention to dependence should never be a currency of exchange between parties. We have an obligation to open a stage of consensus and common sense to address the challenges of dependence, because we are all convinced that there are important aspects that can be improved and that we will all be able to address them. And for that I ask your support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Defence of the amendments tabled. Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Montesinos, the problem is not the legitimacy of your parliamentary group in presenting this initiative and any other initiative in this particular case, but the discrepancy in the diagnosis you make of this policy, and from the conviction, moreover, that perhaps the approach you take in this motion and especially when you appeal to a consensus of all parliamentary groups, could have been raised at the beginning of the legislature, in the middle of the legislature... A few months after closing parliamentary activity in the Congress of Deputies, it seems to us strictly a toast to the sun and, therefore, I already announce that we will vote against this initiative of yours. And I said that it seemed to us that you have made - not so much, but also, in the intervention you have just made, but above all in the explanatory statement justifying this non-law proposal - an analysis of the functioning of the Unit Act in this legislature that my group cannot share. Because, among other things, the legislature has been characterized by the actual abandonment of the State's commitment to the financing of the Unit Act. You know - and has been the subject of countless debates throughout the legislature - that today the state's contribution to this system represents around 18%. It is the autonomous communities and users through the co-sponsorship mechanisms that assume the bulk of the funding of the Unit System. Therefore, under no circumstances can our vote on an approach that could be harmless - that is, a study should be made to assess dependence - be favourable. We do not want to validate this afternoon a policy in which the State has decided to continue to fully implement the Unit System and has transferred responsibility to the autonomous communities, autonomous communities that have also been, through these decisions of the Government, all subjected to enormous financial pressure and which has forced, in order to maintain the legal commitments to which they were bound by the Unit Act, to weaken the whole system of social services. And all this also in the context of the reduction of resources of the concerted plan and the reform of the Local Regime Act, which leaves fewer capacities to the municipalities in this area and indirectly establishes more responsibilities to the autonomous communities, which will have to face at the end of this year or the principles of close to more responsibilities in the financing of social services. And all this also in the context of a sharing of public deficit reduction targets that further stifles the financial capacity of self-governments to maintain the State's essential public welfare services in education, social services and health. We therefore miss the positive balance that the Government has made. We have discussed this on other occasions in this legislature: there are fewer waiting lists, but we also know that, unfortunately, there are more citizens who have died waiting to enter the system. We do not go into depth in the discussion about the quality of the services we are offering and we continue - this drags on from the previous stage - with a system that pivots not so much on the services to families and people as on the formula of the family caregiver and, therefore, maintaining in practice the old scheme of care for dependence: the assumption of women in the family care of their husbands, their parents or their brothers. And despite the positive trend in figures, what is true is that this sector, with effective support from the State's General Budgets, could have been one of the great employment sites during these years of crisis. All this has not been part of the Government's policy and, as I said, we must vote against this initiative. That is right, we are introducing an amendment that proposes to substantially modify the unit's funding system to achieve the resources that guarantee autonomy the sufficiency of the system. That is the fundamental question, the main question, which you have not resolved in this legislature, but which has worsened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Martín González spoke on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u43	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Montesinos, you must be in a special political category to defend the indefensible, which is what you did this afternoon. The Socialist Group wishes to greet, first of all, the representatives of the Unit's state platform - welcome - because they are well aware of what we are talking about this afternoon. The People's Party proposes an interesting debate: to request the Government to report on the implementation of the Law on Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons. We do not need our authorization, they should be doing it already, what we ask of them is that it be a real assessment, not just a report. We have told you many times that this is not evolving properly because the data is scandalous. To the budget shortfall they added measures that covertly repealed an important law and very well valued by 85% of citizens as early as 2011. They began by nullifying rights under Royal Decree 20/2012, continued with the postponement of the implementation of the law, increased the co-sponsors, expelled beneficiaries of the system and finished the work with the normative development, which have applied differently the different autonomous communities, and even the courts have removed their reason for this development, as has happened in Castilla-La Mancha. And you, with your silence, have consented to it and celebrated it. These are the data, ladies and gentlemen: 140 beneficiaries are lost every day; there are 55,300 fewer people entitled to care in the last year; 137,000 valued people are still waiting for their care plan; 177,000 have lost the right for unfair overthrows or because they have died waiting, and there are 173,000 family caregivers despised and expelled from the agreement with Social Security. And there are more numbers that can be analyzed in the common system that we all have. Gentlemen of the People's Party, the Administration must assess its policies and consequences and this ministry too, and it is up to the Territorial Council of the Unit to approve it. They know that there are already several previous reports prepared by the ministry, analyze the statistical evolution of the data published every month by the Imserso, analyze it slowly. And there are more reports: the report of the Office of the Ombudsman, reports of the Court of Auditors, annual reports of the Observatory of the Unit, of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, of the State Council of Colleges of Social Workers, and they can also count on the contributions that could be made by the different platforms in defense of the Unit Law, which I am sure they can contribute a lot because they have lived, have suffered the day-to-day implementation of this Law. Ask the dependents and their families, ask the expelled from the system and the relatives of the deceased, and ask also the professionals, those who have seen so many dismissals for the cuts introduced year after year, surely they also have a lot to say. But it does not take long, because many of the citizens with recognized rights can continue to die waiting for a response or a benefit that does not reach them. They should know the existence of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and Quality of Services, ask them for an evaluation report - evaluation report - as soon as possible and approve it in the Territorial Council, because we do not need to authorize it. But they don't ask for it by 2016, after the election, so they don't see their shames. Their interest in implementing the Unit Act seems new, but they certainly do not deceive anyone. Now everyone wants to make up the data by introducing thousands of dependents valued as grade I and what they do is to do addiction prevention activities, yes, those that cost less and the most widespread, and that is that we already saw it coming. We are already seeing how they introduce in recent months citizens who benefit from social services related to the unit but which in many cases have not even been evaluated: users of home help, tele-assistance or who participate in leisure activities in the centres of older people. They follow instructions, that's what they tell us. They make a big trap when they want to improve the number of users and they have not increased the budget for 2015; they already received services, they are not new users. Who do you want to cheat on? Of course not to the groups. Out of respect for the dependents and their relatives, the professionals, you should include a point where you would apologize for giving them the treatment you have given them. We have tabled an amendment for the assessment to be made, of course we want it to be done, but saying how, when and by whom, and listening to whom they should listen. I take it that you are not going to accept the amendment; I would like you to accept it, but it seems that you are not. If they do not accept the amendment, we will, of course, vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín González. Mrs Pérez has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u45	Thank you, President. Mrs Montesinos, of course studies, if they are done, we hope that they will be much more objective than your intervention has been. The Ombudsman, the ESC, the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services and hundreds of associations of users or family members have repeatedly denounced the progressive dismantling of the Unit Act over the past three years. In the figures you give in the explanatory statement of your initiative nothing says, for example, of the 1.5 billion euros you have cut to the autonomous communities, who are ultimately responsible for caring for dependent people in the last three years. Nor do they mention that to these 1.5 billion euros we have to add the direct cut of another almost 1 billion euros in the amounts to be collected by dependent persons with family care benefits. Nor do they talk in their initiative about what has meant by the sharp reduction in public funding for users in terms of increased co-payments, almost 70% between 2009 and 2013. There have been autonomous communities, Mrs Montesinos, that have stopped recognizing benefits for lack of funds to meet the costs they entail and of course there is no trace on their initiative of the more than 100,000 dependents who have died since 2012 waiting for the benefit already recognized by the State. In short, this and many other data, but above all the drop in attention and the conditions under which thousands of dependent persons find themselves already give us a fairly clear picture of the status of the implementation of the Unit Act in the State. We have nothing against the fact that studies are actually being carried out on the role of all this which we denounce and of what we have so often talked about in this House; but while studies are being carried out, we would ask you to increase budget allocations in parallel for the attention of the thousands of people who are still on the waiting list, to transfer to the autonomous communities the funds necessary for them to be able to care for them properly and to take note of the data and conclusions of the multiple studies already carried out in these years by different entities and associations directly related to the sector and to be definitively put to work. This means starting to recover the level of expenditure per user that existed before 2011; it means that they reconsider the changes that have been made in the scales and that have hardened the conditions for the recognition of the degrees of dependence, and it means above all, Your Honor, that the more than 2 billion euros that have disappeared from the budget headings concerned be restored. Therefore, studies, yes, but budget allocation also and as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let me tell you that the shame you have, which the People's Party has, is absolutely outrageous. [[Rumors]] How dare you, ladies and gentlemen, take advantage of the incorporations into the Unit Act when more than 20% of the people entitled to it do not charge for it and when their Government does not pay half of what it should? How dare you when you have cut more than 1.5 billion euros in an Unit Law that, far from cuts, needed 800 million more? How dare you when the Rajoy government contributes three times less than the autonomous communities contribute, rather than drowned by Montoro? How dare you, when the State is providing the same things that the beneficiary persons are providing through retaliatory scammers? How dare they recompense pensioners, chronically ill or disabled people, who have also been cut off from their investments and at the same time social benefits? How dare you when you have reduced the subsidies to pay the carers and stopped paying your social security contribution, thus stimulating the submerged economy? How dare they talk about meeting a timetable that delayed their first year of government, which has resulted in more than 100,000 people dying waiting for them to recognize their right to dependency? The Unit Act should be a priority. It is a priority because dependence is a right and rights do not depend on the gracious will of a Government, but are bound, at least as bound as paying Mrs Merkel's debt. I'm done. You know about the suffering that you are generating, you know about the needs of people with disabilities, of enslaved relatives, of the costs of adapting the house, in wheelchairs, in diapers, in articulated beds, in bathroom adapters, etc. You also know of people over eighty who take care of their couples who are laid on a bed or in a wheelchair, who lift them up as they can and who to wash them or to sit in front of a window or TV they see and want them. Don't be so cynical to tell us there's no money, don't be because last week you approved a debt credit of over 800 million euros to buy military planes and tanks. You really can't be that miserable. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of Law 39/2006, on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for people in a situation of dependency, is really not being complied with. It should have been implemented since 2012, but the dismantling policies of the People's Party government against the welfare state have precisely prevented it. And it is that the People's Party government has paralysed the timetable for the implementation of this law; indeed, it has emptied even the funds. If it were not for the commitment made by local authorities, parliaments and autonomous communities, the care system today would be in a state of paralysis, in intensive care. You, the People's Party, accustomed to passing the roller of your absolute majority, bring us here this pernicious initiative when it was precisely you who closed the door to the system of care for people in a situation of moderate dependence. Or when it was you who left to your fate the level agreed unilaterally, leaving the autonomous self-governments, parliaments and communities in a situation of absolute defencelessness and tens of thousands of people out of the system. Or when it was you who cut the level of protection, about 15% at all levels. Or when it has also been you who have literally suspended people's rights by turning women into real psychologists and caregivers of the family environment. However, what has the People's Party Government done, for example, with regard to rare diseases? Nothing, zero. All he has done is turn his back on them; turn his back, for example, on people who have been the victims of thalidomide or Sanfilippo syndrome, etc. What have they invested in sensitivity and pedagogy to break with prejudices, taboos and denigrating terms that are so internalized in society and that they do so much harm? For example, it is wrong to say a dependent person; it is right to say a dependent person. It is wrong to say that a person with a disability or a disability is a person with a disability. Nor is it right to say rare diseases, to say rare diseases. We're talking about pedagogy, and it's more important than it looks. We are therefore talking about valuing reality, transforming today's society into a real inclusive system. We must understand that all people are in a situation of dependence, one way or another. We must also understand that interdependence is precisely an intrinsic characteristic of society itself, between people and their environment. There is therefore much to be done; however, with the People's Party all we have done is move backwards. And you, who have it in your hands, now come to us with which to conduct a study. Coming from you is insulting, because you say it is to take steps to improve. One piece of advice, you can begin to improve quickly by returning everything you have dismantled with your hands during these three years, perhaps then you will regain some credibility. Meanwhile, hearing from your mouth improving attention to dependency will mean dismantling, privatizing and abandoning. But don't worry because in the historic territories of Euskal Herria we will continue to invest 50% of the budgets in social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. Mr Olabarría spoke on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Montesinos, you have made an invocation of the relevance of the study. The study is a great value. We thought of it as such. But we have already studied this law. We have been studying it since December 2006 and the more we study it, the more we observe the fiasco in which it has consisted, a fiasco that could be broken down into many issues that have already been indicated by the speakers who have preceded me in the use of the word and others that I might add. Mrs. Montesinos, what do you want us to study in relation to the area of dependency? Does the failure to comply with the successive treatment scheme, the chronology of application for the assessment of all dependents, which has already not been complied with in more than six years? Is that what you want us to study? I have to say in your discharge, not only from your Government, but also from the previous Government, that you did not meet the deadlines for the assessment of dependents as set out in the law under this particular successive treatment regime. What do you want us to study, Mrs. Montesinos? Are the permanent changes in the criteria for the scheming of dependents involving in peius scheming for dependents, excluding more dependents each time new criteria are laid down, to the extent that at this time the disabled persons who do not reach 68% of disability are not being assessed? Is that what you want us to study? These people are completely unattended by not joining a dependency process which, however, is not complemented by other protection processes for these disabled people in percentages of 68%, which is said soon What do you want us to study, Mrs Montesinos, the permanent and systematic non-compliance with the evaluation schedules of the new dependents? You do not want us to study, what you want is for us to read the explanatory statement of your non-law proposal, an apologetic explanatory statement and whose coincidence with the reality of what happened is mere coincidence in your case. It has nothing to do with reality what you very laudablely, very apologetically establish about how many beneficiaries are already receiving benefits from the Unit System. You're not the ones who point out here, you're much less. And you are not going to fulfill the predictions you make when you value yourself, if you ever value yourself, the new dependents. There are not going to be 300,000 new moderate dependents, because there are currently no budget allocations. It is enough to analyse the forecasts of the last General Budgets of the State, where more than 2 billion euros have been deducted from the budgetary appropriations for the care of dependency. Its material forecast will only be possible if the assessment of the new dependents is made, as the Socialist Group's spokesman has said, from a purely preventive perspective, but the new dependents are not attributed to the benefits provided by a law which, by the way, we have always seen with prevention. Mrs. Montesinos, I'll tell you what you should study. The Basque outlaws, before the adoption of the law, already attended to all the dependents who will be evaluated when the successive evaluation process provided for in the Unit and Autonomy Act of 2006 is completed. Yes, everyone, including the moderates. A right of citizenship was created, which in the field of scientific doctrine no one knows exactly what it is, it is not a right of social security, it is not a subjective right, of citizens, it is a right of citizenship, somewhat amphibological reproducing the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which really means nothing and which is not known how to claim, which cannot even be claimed before the courts the application of a right of these characteristics; in fact, there have been no claims or claims before the courts for the recognition of the benefits provided for in the Unit Act. It excludes not only disabled persons who do not reach 68% of the disability, but excludes from the assessment of dependency truly aberrant situations, such as those of those who suffer from rare diseases that really lack absolute personal autonomy, who require a dedication of their relatives worthy of commendation, which runs counter to the epic, and those you have deprived of funding because you have prevented what was originally advocated by the law, which is the possibility that relatives who have to care for a dependent could be remunerated and contribute to social security. The law excluded this provision, which was a source - Mr Campuzano also said - of generating employment in the area of care for dependency, creating interesting and important synergies and economic effects. In short, what do you want us to consider if you have failed to comply with all the requirements of the Unit Law from the point of view of the assessments, from the perspective of the identification of the scales, from the perspective of the chronology of the schedules of assessment of the dependents - six years of delay in the evaluation of the dependents - and by the violation, if anything, of exclusive competences of the autonomous communities, as has also been commented by Mr Campuzano. With regard to social assistance, we are faced with the exclusive competence of the pure autonomous communities, it is of the few that are not affected either by the basic legislation of the State, by the framework legislation of the State, by the High Inspection of the State, or by the guiding principles of the computer economy; for nothing, it is a pure competence. That is why our outlaws - not other autonomous communities that have been very deficient in meeting these requirements of mere social justice, mere material justice - already served all dependents residing in the outlaw territories of Euskadi. Then this law did not imply anything, and that is why you indicate in the explanatory statement that was passed by all but the nationalist parties. The nationalist parties were already doing so, which is why we did not approve it and because it involved a disturbance in the structure of the State's competence to distribute social assistance, which we consider to be dangerous and disturbing. Unfortunately, time has given us reason, Mrs Montesinos: it has proved inadequate, disturbing by systematically failing to comply with a law which, however, could eventually have beneficial effects. Neither 700,000 recipients of benefits nor 300,000 for the future, forget the two figures; 300,000 will be analysed in advance but there are no budgetary allocations to meet them. From this perspective, some preventive mechanisms will be established to see what can be done, to see how you can accompany families; in the end, what may be thought of to you, what we can study. The invocation was to study, for we will study what can be done, but with these budgetary appropriations, with the misadjustment that you have made of the welfare State in this particular area of social assistance, with the material contents of the Unit Act, which have been taken by your Government and by the former to the pure benefit of inventory, it is impossible to meet the requirements of the law itself, but the constitutional requirements provided for in article 41: any situation of necessity will be sufficiently addressed. This law does not address any situation of need in a universal or sufficient manner. It does so backwards, Mr President: manifestly insufficient and not universally; it is never going to be universal, without prejudice to the violations, which are also constitutional, Mr President: the violations of autonomous competences in this area. It seems that this has a smaller dimension, but the Constitution is also violated when autonomous competences are penetrated, violated and emptyed of content. From that perspective, Mrs Montesinos, with the appreciation that you know I have you, I will study everything you want me to study, but studying this one has the feeling that the only thing that will internalize - from a subjective and personal perspective - is pure melancholy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Law 39/2006 of 14 December 2006 on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for dependent persons was one of the star projects of the first legislature of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero; an empty project of competence and funding; a shell full of good intentions that has really meant dependent citizens of the first and dependent citizens of the second. The NLP that we are discussing right now proposes to urge the Government to study the development of the Unit Act after its implementation period has been completed, so that its conclusions will lay the groundwork for changing those aspects that are evident as improvements and for laying the groundwork for further work. However, it is important to highlight the demagogy involved in presenting this proposal to a government that is dying and that has not been able throughout the legislature to give substance to this law. We in the UPyD Parliamentary Group are, of course, in favour of any initiative that favours the disability sector; although we must express a number of caveats that, far from an easy decision, this is a difficult decision, as we said before, neither from the government nor from the autonomous governments - most of the PP - has actually worked on an improvement of the Unit Law. The fact that the competence for the implementation and management of the Unit Act depends on each autonomous community and the absence of minimum support by the State has caused a tremendous inequality between Spanish citizens depending on the place of residence, while a failure in the desired level of coverage due to the lack of budgetary resources and human material means, which in this time of crisis has worsened further. More than conducting a study - as they propose here - it would be necessary for the autonomous communities to properly report on the development and shortcomings of the norm and for all political groups to face legislative reform and an improvement in the efficiency of its implementation, giving, first of all, competence in the area of care from the dependency to the State. The State's budgets should, in the future, consider the appropriate allocations and not be left in the shameful micro figures of recent years. Between 2011 and 2013, the autonomous communities and local authorities cut their contribution to social services by more than 13%, placing on an average annual expenditure per citizen of just over 300 euros. These cuts, which have followed in later years, have also been uneven among the different communities, further widening the gap in disability issues among the Spanish. The joint investment of the State and autonomous communities in social services should be around 15%, and there is no excuse. There is still a lot of superfluous spending to cut elsewhere to devote it to what really matters: the quality of life of dependent Spaniards. The dependency care system is not even able to guarantee the replacement rate. In other words, fewer and fewer people are receiving benefits or services because of their dependency status. That is why we must demand that everyone should be committed to ensuring at least the same percentage of beneficiaries of the system as when the historical peak was reached. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that for the first quarter of 2016 there is a commitment to care for all persons entitled to the home care service, bearing in mind that the incorporation into the system of all grades is already an effective right, since the transitional periods and their extensions have already ended. The basic social services network of local entities is the essential structure for meeting the needs of more than 8.5 million people today. Victims of successive cuts, their situation is, in many places, extremely precarious due to the lack of support in local entities by the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. In addition, many of the services managed in this local network are threatened by the uncertainty generated by local reform. This is the case with services as important as home help, seniors' homes or childcare programmes. Finally, the Government must now be urged to ensure transparency and information on the part of the autonomous communities and that the central Government exercises its responsibilities at the State level, so that we can all assess the development of the various social services, without distinguishing between residents in different autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u54	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the United Left Parliamentary Group, La Izquierda Plural, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u55	Thank you, President. Mrs Montesinos, you have started your speech by trying to justify the initiative that brings us to this plenary today, and you already know that of non-small excuse, manifest accusation, unsolicited justification, manifest accusation. Mrs Montesinos, of course, you are aware that you have done nothing in all this time to implement and further improve the Unit Law, as much as you come with autobomb. In this case, Mrs Montesinos, you bring us a similar initiative to others that you have brought here to urge the Government, your Government, the Government of all Spaniards, but the Government of the People's Party, to draw up and carry out actions that you do not seem to trust the Government to do, because you have to urge it to do so. It turns out at least curious, I'm going to use this word. In this case, it is that, after the implementation period - which was delayed - in the next month of July, a study is made with the aim of modifying those aspects that are evident as improveable. For in order to modify aspects that are evident as improveable you have had more time than enough, because of course the improveable aspects are many, have been very much throughout this legislature. In any case, we could qualify it as a laudable objective if they had not previously carried out the practice of freezing the Unit Act. You from the very first moment - and Mrs. Mato said - said that the Unity Law was unworkable and, of course, you have made it truly unworkable. They have done everything possible to make it impossible with the contributions to the increasingly reduced autonomous communities and with the cuts they have made to the law itself. You have not heard either the families or the dependents, you have not been interested in hearing them. It is not because they have not paid attention to the studies that have been carried out, it is because they have not wanted to listen to the families or the people in a situation of dependence, that on more than one occasion they have manifested themselves in front of the ministry and you have never had the desire to attend to them, never. Very recently we have been able to listen in the media to people who expressed how the rise of the co-sponsors did not allow them to continue receiving the corresponding benefits because they could not address those co-sponsors. We have also seen how people have been reduced by the degree of dependence, and there are people who could have taken it if you had the deference to having attended and listened to them, which you have not done. And there are people who, having been assessed and their assessment finally determine that they have to be resident, are required to pay more than the pension they receive. Mrs Montesinos, neither have you heard that is a reality. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, even analyzing your own data, you can see that the successive cuts that have led to the one commonly known as the Unit Law, especially those that were imposed through the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, have led to a very serious situation for many families and for many people in a situation of dependency. Persons entitled to benefits have been reduced by 12.63 per cent and by 4.46 per cent the number of dependants receiving an effective benefit. It's your data, not ours. You have a video, of which you promote, perhaps a bit cursive, in which you say that we put ourselves on the skin of people who suffer certain situations. Well, we urge you to put yourselves once and for all on the skin of the people and families who are suffering from their cuts, the numerous cuts and the numerous discounts you make in the Unit Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I know that it is difficult and costly to understand what citizens are demanding from us after the latest electoral processes, but at least one issue should be clear, and that they are fed up with lies and deceptions, tired of being told that they are the centre of policies and then being made policies against them, against their interests and against their rights. This initiative that they bring today is an initiative that has only a pre-election content, but of course no content beneficial to dependent citizens or their families. They have not even had - let me say - the decency to set a specific date for the completion of this study. Therefore, since we cannot follow the game, we cannot vote in favour. We will always be with those policies that go in favour of the citizens, of their families, but we will always be against the auto-bomb policies, which are not positive for the citizens and only positive for the party that proposes them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u56	Thank you, Mrs. García Álvarez. Mrs Montesinos, in order to accept either of the two amendments or not.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u57	We are not going to accept any amendments. We have tried to reach a compromise, which has unfortunately been impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the identification of the minimum inter-professional salary of 60 % of the average salary, as set out in the European Social Charter. [[File number 162/001123]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u59	Next item is the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the dignification of the inter-professional minimum wage by approaching 60% of the average wage, as laid down in the European Social Charter. She introduced the initiative and gave the floor to Ms. Ramón Utrabo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is once again coming up to this rostrum to demand something it considers to be fair, the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, and we are doing so by calling, first of all, for the recovery of its purchasing power, lost in these four years of government of the People's Party by more than 5.4%, and by demanding its gradual approximation to 60% of the average wage of this country, an objective set out in the European Social Charter signed by Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the alarms about the increase in poverty in our country have again been blown. According to the latest survey of living conditions published at the end of May, the average annual income of Spanish households continues to fall free. In 2013, 2.3% less than in 2012 and 5.7% less than in 2011. Moreover, this risk of poverty has increased in the working-age population by 4 percentage points in the four years of the People's Party government. Today, having a job in Spain does not mean stopping being poor. This has been the result of its labour reform, the direct consequence of the neo-conservative counter-reform policies carried out by this Government, which is committed to wage devaluation and the decline in labour rights as a way to gain productivity and competitiveness of enterprises. They know that's not the case, and we're suffering every day in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Force Wage Deficit Survey published at the end of 2014 already shows that more than 27% of employed persons between 25 and 50 years of age earn less than the minimum wage and also shows how, at a time when full-time contracts are being replaced by part-time contracts, more than half of workers earn less than this minimum wage. I would also like to point out that women are the main victims: 15.4% of women receive this salary compared with 4.9% of men. Far from deigning wages, improving the social security coffers by creating these minimum wage bases, far from advancing in the correction of the wage gap in social inequality and avoiding social exclusion, the policies of the People's Party Government place the burden of the crisis on the weakest and also delay the real economic recovery by undermining the confidence of workers and their contribution to the consolidation of domestic demand. This is how the freezing of the interprofessional minimum wage carried out by this government can be interpreted; a government that has frozen the minimum wage twice, in 2012 and 2014; a government that has increased this wage by just 7 euros in four years compared to the more than 180 euros in which it was increased by the socialist government, almost 40 per cent in seven years. This, in parallel with the rise in light, was 2.4% in 2013 compared to 0.6% of the minimum wage. Precisely that year, in 2013, more than 10 per cent of households stated that they could not afford that light, could not pay that community, could not pay the rent or could not pay the mortgage on their home. Spain, which ranks fourth in the euro area because of its gross domestic product, nevertheless holds the last posts in the minimum wage amount together with Greece and Portugal, which is distant from Britain, the country that precedes us on the list in almost 500 euros. In the past legislatures, the socialist governments made a commitment to reach a minimum wage of 60% of the average wage, thus adapting that commitment to the content of the European Social Charter. That commitment, as I said earlier, allowed us to significantly increase the minimum wage in seven years, reaching 41% of our country's average wage in 2010. In the last four years, the minimum wage has not only lost purchasing power, but has also substantially distanced itself from the objective set by the European Social Charter, and can say, without too much risk of making a mistake, that we will be around 35%. The freezing of the minimum wage or the small increases that you have carried in the same year with 0.5%, keep us further and further away from what countries are doing from our nearest environment. We need an adequate minimum wage, because that is the essential guarantee to ensure social cohesion and thus contribute to a fair distribution of the wealth demanded by article 131 of our Spanish Constitution. In Spain, the Government has taken a diametrically opposite direction to that pointed out by the most advanced economies. This is causing terrible suffering to the workers; suffering that is not accompanied at all by the campaign of recovery orchestrated by the People's Party Government. Recovery for a few and condemnation for broad middle classes, for workers who see how they lose their wages, who are engaged in the renunciation of their social rights, the renunciation of a decent wage. This claim for a guarantee of sufficiency in salary, which is mandated by article 35 of the Constitution as a right of workers for the performance of their work and which is being seriously compromised by the policies undertaken by this Government, is the reason why our group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, supports this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Ramon Utrabo. For the defence of the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we agree with the Socialist Group's proposal for an increase in the inter-branch minimum wage. We share the rejection of its freezing. We share the indignation at the loss of purchasing power of the workers and we look forward to the objective set by the European Social Charter to bring us closer to 60% of the average wage. And this is the key word: rapprochement. We are talking about a progressive will to achieve this, which is why we believe it is appropriate today to bring back to the vote here, today, an amendment which we believe the Socialist Parliamentary Group should approve, since it has already done so a few months ago, and we have adopted it, thereby bringing together a debate that will need to be started in the next parliamentary term, because today you are going to say no to this proposal and we believe that it is very important to bring two issues together in the debate. Firstly, the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage and, secondly, another proposal which we think is very, very important in order to achieve this, namely to carry out the necessary legislative reforms in order and with the effect of establishing a minimum wage in undertakings which has a ratio of one to twelve with respect to the maximum wages which are also given in the same undertaking. We believe that this debate is essential in order to make this transition more effective from an absolutely deficient and deficient inter-professional minimum wage such as the current one, to the objective which we should achieve and which, I repeat, sets out the European Social Charter. We understand that if our amendment is not adopted today, we will strengthen the debate that we will have to start in the next parliamentary term. I repeat the desire to bring together the two issues that I believe are essential to go parallel and together until their final resolution. If we are approved, I think we can strengthen this political debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u63	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is a cartoon of the cartoonist El Roto where two characters, with suit and tie, comment: 'We offer minimum wages with bad conditions and still catch them. We have to push harder.' This is the result of the policies of the People's Party in these years, which has led us to this. The fact is that the amount of the minimum wage is not fixed even with the 5% increase proposed. We have a serious problem of low, laughable wages compared to European averages despite the fact that the cost of living is not so far apart, and it is not fixed by 5%, although obviously it is improved. By the way, the PSOE could have improved it in the past legislature. Let us remember that the same president Rodríguez Zapatero suggested raising the amount to 800 euros, but left it for the next legislature, which never arrived. One of the compensations to these low wages has always been stability and compensation of forty-five days for wrongful dismissal. Both compensations have ceased to exist for the majority and wages, above, have been reduced by an average of 10%. Trade unions demand larger increases to compensate for freezes and losses of purchasing power and simply to dignify the amount. The question is: what work model does this Government want, that of dignity or exploitation? And the answer is in its ridiculous 0.5% increase while trying to sing the song of economic recovery. If we want people to perceive that there is an economic recovery, start by dignified wages, and the first, which is in their hands, which is the lowest: the inter-professional minimum wage, a figure that if in 2004 it was paid by 6% of the workers, in 2012 it was already 12.5% and in 2014 nothing less than 34% of the workers earned less than 645 euros a month thanks to their minimum wage policy. You'll see. We announce that we will vote in favour of the proposal even if it seems to us insufficient.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Quadra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, after two years of freezing, the Government of the People's Party has raised the inter-professional minimum wage from EUR 645.30 to EUR 648.60, i.e. EUR 3.30. It's all a paston, an impressive 0.5% ascent. Faced with this, for example, the profits of the multinationals of IBEX 35 last year have increased by 60%. This is a serious climb. The interprofessional minimum wage in the Spanish State is one of the lowest in Europe, between 40% and 50% below those in countries such as Great Britain, France, Belgium, Ireland and so on. In this, as in so many other things - in terms of unemployment, precariousness, occupational sinestrality, etc. - the Spanish State is always in line, in all the worst, always. The PSOE, having made its calculations, is today proposing a 5% increase for the interprofessional minimum wage in order to regain the purchasing power lost over the last three years. We are also told that it is a matter of moving towards the objective set by the European Social Charter, which states that the inter-branch minimum wage will reach up to 60% of the existing average real wage. But this is tremendously inadequate from the point of view of Amaiur. With the proposed 5% increase, it would only be possible for the current percentage, which is 34.5 %, to become 36.2 % of the average wage of the Spanish State. We repeat, it is clearly insufficient. Moreover, with the criterion of continuing to maintain the purchasing power of the existing minimum wage, this 60% target could never be achieved, but would always remain stagnant by thirty-seven percent. From the point of view of Amaiur, the interprofessional minimum wage, SMI, should add one more letter to its acronym, the D of dignity that it lacks, because we find ourselves before and with the proposal of the Socialist Group with a minimum wage that does not cover the most basic vital minimums for a person. It's an amount, a salary I'd say almsgiving and survival. What is needed is to guarantee a minimum of dignity in the social conditions of people, and this is not covered by the amount currently in existence or by the EUR 681 that would be the rise proposed by the Socialist Group. These minimums of dignity are not reached, much less, much less; that is why, because they remain very short and because the criteria laid down do not serve to reach that 60%, Amaiur is going to abstain from this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u67	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Congress regularly debates the need to bring the minimum inter-professional wage into line with the evolution of decent personal and family living conditions in line with the country's economic reality, as required by the Constitution itself in its article 35. This is due not only to the efforts of the parliamentary opposition to control the action of the government in the matter of wages, but also to the intrinsic importance of the inter-professional minimum wage to determine two basic dimensions of the life of any country: on the one hand, the incomes that are considered minimal to guarantee the basic needs of any citizen, which means affecting the very core of human dignity and the limits of poverty; and on the other hand, the minimum wage costs that employers must bear, which directly affects employment policy and the labour market. [[The Lord]] Therefore, to demand an improvement in the inter-professional minimum wage is not only to demand a better wage as an instrument of a policy of income redistribution, but above all to dignify the wage in the less skilled jobs, not so much because of its economic profitability - an economic criterion - as because of the obligation to respect the human right to a decent life in which the basic needs of the individual are guaranteed. However, the inter-professional minimum wage, like any wage, is only directly applicable to persons in employment. In economies with conditions of full employment, the impact of changes in the SMI on the volume of employment can be marginal; instead, their impact can be very significant when it comes to economies with a high unemployment rate, as is the case with the Spanish economy for more than a year. Under these conditions, the improvement of the interprofessional minimum wage must be made considering its double impact: on the one hand, the increase in the consumption it generates, but also because of the increase in labour costs and its impact on the labour market. Therefore, bearing in mind the crucial importance of the inter-professional minimum wage in the two dimensions mentioned, it is obvious that any improvement must be made considering the necessary balance between the satisfaction of the basic needs of people in order to guarantee them a humane life and the maintenance or improvement of employment. Any analysis that ignores any of the two dimensions can only serve for ignorant debate or political demagoguery, in addition to causing harmful social and/or economic effects to the country. If we take as a reference the last decade, during which the governments of the PSOE and the PP have alternated, we find that the interprofessional minimum wage has increased from 540.90 euros in 2006 - obviously for 14 pay - to 648.60 euros in 2015; that is, an increase of 107.70 euros, which is equivalent to an average annual increase of 1.9%. Given that during the same period the CPI had an average annual increase of 1.8%, it would be easy to conclude that its update has ensured the basic purchasing capacity of people; however, as always happens, these statistical data must be analysed in detail in order not to fall into a misconception of reality. Firstly, the evolution of the SMI has not been homogeneous during this decade. Indeed, while in the first three years it increased by EUR 60, in the remaining seven it only increased by EUR 48.60. This has largely been due to the freezes applied in 2012 and 2014. Moreover, the severe increase in unemployment caused by the economic crisis has restricted the number of workers covered by the SMI, which has led to a fall in the purchasing capacity of individuals and families. According to this data from the Family Budget Survey, the average annual expenditure per household was reduced by EUR 2,032, equivalent to 7% of the total between 2011 and 2013. According to the constant demonstrations of the President of the Government and the macroeconomic data provided by the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, in 2014 the growth of the gross domestic product was estimated at 1.4%, which will be between 2.9% and 3% between this year and 2018, and there will be a reduction - we estimate very optimistic - of the unemployment rate of almost 9 percentage points in the same period. Our position is based on two clear and compelling arguments. Because the growth of gross domestic product and employment together with the moderate increase in the CPI allow this, and because it is also fair for the millions of workers who charge the SMI and for their families, our parliamentary group not only supports this measure of increasing 5%, but also wants to go further, so it has proposed an amendment in which we offer the other groups in the House and the Government itself a public pact to ensure the growth of the SMI around 3%, which can be revised upwards, according to the growth of the gross domestic product, the CPI and the labour market during the next three years of the next legislature. With this we would demonstrate to the citizenry...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u69	Mr. Calduch, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. We would demonstrate the political will to improve the working and social conditions of the population in situations of greater vulnerability and exclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mrs Álvarez-Arenas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the spokesman for the Socialist Group has poured out a number of qualifications, to which we are already accustomed, and has stated that all these adjectives are the consequences of the neoliberal policies of the People's Party government. Simply to introduce the a priori debate I have to say that if we are talking about the consequences of the policies of the PSOE, not socialists - I probably do not blame them on socialism, but on the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party - the consequences of his government were 3.5 million unemployed, one million companies closed and a 28 % increase in the risk of poverty and social exclusion. That's just taking the data we all know. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing to remember is that in order to set the minimum inter-professional wage, which on the other hand is the responsibility of the Government after consultation with trade unions and business organisations, account must be taken, as laid down in the Workers' Statute in Article 27, of the evolution of the CPI, of the average productivity achieved at national level, as well as of the evolution of wage participation on the whole of national income, and all this analysed in the broader context defined by the economic situation. In this very context of what the Workers' Statute says is where the amendment that my group has tabled focuses and to which I will refer throughout my speech. That is why, in line with what I have just explained, the joint assessment of the variables to which I referred justified the Government's decision to increase the interprofessional minimum wage by 0.5 by 2015, which - as is said in the actual decree which regulated it - responds to the improvement of the general conditions of the economy - were already at the time of the adoption of this real decree - while continuing to promote its competitiveness in a balanced way, thus accompanying the evolution of wages with the process of recovery of employment, because that is the balance that I believe also Mr Calduch has in some way pointed out that it is necessary to achieve for these issues, especially in order to regulate the interprofessional minimum wage. It is therefore important to stress that the determination of the interprofessional minimum wage is not the numerical result of a mathematical operation involving the various indicated magnitudes of the four factors I have pointed out above, but of the joint assessment of all of them. We have already discussed this issue in this House in the Commission, in plenary. The interprofessional minimum wage cannot be indexed to the CPI without taking into account other factors to which I have referred and which are also in our legislation. As regards the loss of purchasing power of the inter-professional minimum wage, it is not true because, as is known, in 2013, which is what this initiative refers to in its explanatory statement, the CPI rose by 0.3 and the minimum wage rose by 0.6. In 2014, when there was no increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, the CPI was at least 1 %. The second agreement for employment and collective bargaining, signed in January 2012 by the social partners, has facilitated the path towards wage moderation and a process has begun to improve our competitiveness, which is the prerequisite for economic growth and job creation that is taking place in Spain, of which no one doubts, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it also needs to continue and above all to make it possible for employment to reach all those who do not yet have a chance to work. We cannot support what the Socialist Group indicates in its explanatory statement to justify this non-legislative proposal. It is not possible to speak in general terms of loss of purchasing power, social cohesion and consumption, because the data provided by the statistics and the National Institute of Statistics are as follows: private consumption in Spain has increased from at least 2.9 in 2012 to 2.3 in 2014 and to a forecast for this year of a growth in private consumption of 2.7. The average salary in 2013 was €26,027 and in 2014 was 26,162. Therefore, all the data go in a direction contrary to that established by the Socialist Group, which is not the best; no, of course not. Much remains to be done, much remains to be done and much needs to be improved; but progress and trends are not the same as the Socialist Group's initiative, but the opposite. Just one more point on this subject, from 2004 to 2011 - I don't have to remember who was in the government - the interprofessional minimum wage rose by 39%, and in the same period our unemployment rate rose by 15 points and poverty and the risk of social exclusion - as I said at the beginning - increased by 28%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to have measure, to continue on the current path, which is certainly working well in all the indicators to which I have referred. It also speaks to the Socialist Parliamentary Group in its initiative on the labour force survey on wages - I will try to finish because I see that I am being given the red light -. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am most interested in is the constant reference to the European Social Charter. It is not true that in the European Social Charter it is nowhere that the inter-professional minimum wage has to reach 60% of the average wage; it is not true. Article 4.1 of the European Social Charter speaks of the rights of workers to adequate remuneration, but never establishes it, as you falsely put on your initiative and also reflect in the petitum of this non-legislative proposal. You can neither manipulate nor lack the truth, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, I will give you an example, and with this I will finish, Mr President. In this House on 10 March 2009, a proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliament was debated, which rightly called for the minimum wage to reach 60% of the average Spanish wage; I repeat, on 10 March 2009, Mr Zapatero's government. Do you know what you voted for, Socialist gentlemen, that you are now coming here to request this? They voted no, they voted against that proposal. We did, too, but some of us have coherence and responsibility, both in the Government today and in the opposition in 2009, and you, in your usual course, have neither coherence nor responsibility. When they rule they vote no and when they are in opposition they propose it, as today, based on falsehoods and demagogies. You know, where I said, I mean Diego. Hence, the consistency of our amendment...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u72	Mrs. Alvarez-Arenas, finish. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: I conclude, Mr President, by referring to the consistency of our amendment, which talks about what I said at the beginning: setting the minimum wage in accordance with the Workers' Statute and taking into account the improvement of the general conditions of the economy, etc. - as is in the text of our amendment -. It is an absolutely cohesive and balanced element to facilitate this progressive adaptation of the interprofessional minimum wage to the growth of our economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if our amendment is not accepted, we will have to vote against an initiative full of demagogy and inaccuracies, not to say falsehoods. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas. Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. The spokesman for Union Progreso and Democracy has had an argumentative approach worthy of commendation, at this time of confusion that accompany these legislatings; he has done so from an ethical and economic perspective. I can make both kinds of arguments without any kind of intellectual reservation. The spokesman of the People's Group commented that the requirement of the European Social Charter is that of sufficiency, it is the same requirement of article 35 of the Spanish Constitution. sufficiency cannot be lower than what is called the technical poverty threshold by Eurostat. This threshold is precisely defined by 60% of average wages or average wages in the country where the determination of the sufficiency criterion is applied. I do not say this; this is said, as the spokesman for the People's Group knows, by the case law of the Constitutional Court in the area of remuneration and also by the public pension system. That is not new, and the Socialist Group's request is well founded, from a constitutional point of view. If we do not reach an interprofessional minimum wage of 60% of the average state wage, we would not have an interprofessional minimum wage below the technical threshold of poverty, failing to meet the requirement of sufficiency required by constitutional jurisprudence, violating article 35, violating article 141 - pensions would be article 41-. See to what extent it is true what I am telling you, that at the moment an inter-professional minimum wage in Spain - of EUR 645 - would reach - if we consider that in Europe 60% of the inter-professional average wage should be 60% of the average wage - an amount of EUR 1,869, exactly. Maintaining a minimum wage in the Spanish State of EUR 645 does not reach 34,5% of what is required to cover what the European Social Charter mandates, which is to reach 60% of the inter-professional minimum wage. Why do I say that we would be under the poverty line? There is nothing more to discuss than a document from the Government of the Spanish State. The 2013 Survey of Living Conditions, published on 27 May 2014, places the poverty threshold at EUR 8,114,2 per year in single-person households. If we used the Spanish interprofessional minimum wage, we would find ourselves with a figure of 9,034,2 euros, in a family unit made up of one person; but since the family units are more than one person in more than 80% of the cases, then we would be placing the interprofessional minimum wage considered per family unit in the Spanish State under the minimum poverty threshold. We would be failing to comply with the requirement, well-glossed by you, that it must be sufficient, as demanded by the European Social Charter and article 35 of the Constitution; therefore, we would be at an insufficient interprofessional minimum wage. In any case, interesting things have also been said here, Mr President; here responsibilities must be distributed in a relevant way. The interprofessional minimum wage in 2010 and 2011 was increased in percentages below the CPI, and these are not responsibilities attributable to the People's Group, although it was subsequently frozen, in 2012 and 2014. Therefore, we are faced with an interprofessional minimum wage which, considering it by family unit or individually, does not meet the requirements of Article 35 of the Spanish Constitution and Article 41 of the European Social Charter. What's the other reflection? After the labor reform and the invocation made by the spokesman of the People's Group to the Workers' Statute, this warns us; we are clearly concerned. The wage deflation suffered by wages in the Spanish State of 0.8, on average, is due to the application of the Workers' Statute following the 2012 labour reform, whereby the employer unilaterally may have the remuneration for economic, technical, organizational and force majeure reasons. This causes a wage deflation, a wage decrease of 0.8 suffered by the average Spanish workers. I ask the spokesman of the People's Group, since he knows that I also have him, not to invoke the Workers' Statute because it degrades the pay conditions for the reasons I told him after the 2012 reform. Responsibilities must be distributed. Before the 2012 reform there was another reform in 2010, not of his government but of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, also of characteristics similar to those committed, in a more brutal way...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u75	Mr. Olabarría, you don't see it, but the light has already turned red.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u76	Yes, and I wouldn't want to get red too, Mr. President, for abusing time with so much recurrence. When it comes to imputing responsibilities, we are going to stop distributing them among each other and we are going to place the minimum interprofessional wage in a dignified, constitutionally dignified way at least. It is not a bad proposal that the Socialist Group put forward to progress or move towards that dignity that the Constitution and the European Social Charter require in relation to the interprofessional minimum wage. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u77	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech by sharing with you the great joy of a news you have just given me. In the European Parliament the great coalition of socialists, conservatives and liberals has just withdrawn the vote on the Treaty called free trade and investment. Things are starting to go well, that way they can go well. [[Applauds]] On today's issue, our group, The Plural Left, is going to vote in favour of this bill put forward by the Socialist Group, among other reasons because it fully agrees with the one we tabled at the time, we defended and lost in due course before the votes, but not the arguments, of the People's Group. We are facing one of the most dramatic situations in our recent history in terms of wages, with a sharp drop in the purchasing capacity of wages. If that is serious in general, it is much more so in relation to lower wages. We are - it is agreed that the Group of the European People's Party should begin to recognise this - faced with one of the great injustices of the so-called reform programmes, which are nothing but counter-reforms based on wage devaluation as the great mechanism for adjusting the crisis. This freezing of the minimum wage, in addition to being unfair - don't forget - is one of the causes behind the rise of poverty and inequality. It is not only the crisis; it is the consequences of the labour reforms of 2010 and especially of 2012, voted by the People's Group and Convergence i Unió, which have caused a serious deterioration in employment. Today there are many more workers, and especially women workers, especially young women, who receive the minimum inter-professional wage as remuneration. This is one of the causes of the increase in poverty because with these scarce 600 euros it is difficult to survive. The popular deputy Arenales Serrano is right when she says that there is child poverty because the parents of poor children are poor families. It's true, it's a very logical deduction. What a pity that you have forgotten to think and also to say that the poverty of the parents of poor children is not a biblical punishment that God sends us for some sin committed; it is the consequence of the reform of the People's Group and Convergence i Unió, of these wage freezes and, especially, of the freezing of the minimum wage. Moreover, behind this situation of injustice and increased poverty, there is a situation of profound inequality because all wages have lost purchasing power, but not all have lost it equally. I recommend a study prepared by the 1st of May Foundation, which makes it clear that while 10% of the highest wage earners have lost 4% of purchasing power since 2010, 10% of the lowest wage earners have had a loss of close to 23% in the real wage they receive. This is the result of many factors; for example, the replacement effect of workers that has led to labour reform among stable workers with decent wages by other temporary, part-time, precarious wages. It is also a consequence of the policy of reduction and wage adjustment, and certainly also of the policy of freezing the minimum wage caused in recent years. Injustice, increasing poverty and increasing inequality are three major social impacts of the policy of freezing the minimum wage, but, if I may say so, there is also a reason of an economic nature. Freezing the inter-professional minimum wage only increases the availability of an army of precarious workers who, with low wages, are part of the precarious labour market that is available to business sectors that, with this high availability, do not require either innovation, investment or modification of their product. Simply, they can derive great benefits only from these conditions of wage degradation. Why invest, innovate and risk if you can bet on sectors of extremely low wages and high profitability? They should know that Spain has no competition problems for high wages. The proof is that many countries that compete - and much better than us - have higher wages than ours. Even in our country, the most dynamic sectors, the exporters, are those that have higher wages because they contribute and bet on innovation and quality. In that sense, the argument so much that you have so much to contend that the wage freeze helps to have more competitiveness is also proven false in economic terms. With these policies, you only encourage an obsolete productive model that leads us to be the great source of precarious employment in all of Europe. In this sense - I conclude with this - the question to be asked is: If this causes injustice and poverty, it also has no economic value, why have you endeavoured to keep the minimum wage freeze and wage depreciation throughout this legislature? I think the answer is as simple as cruel. They have decided that it is the workers who pay for the adjustment of the crisis; and they have decided that in order to recover the rate of profit from capital this is achieved not with more investment and more innovation, but with a reduction of wages and especially of the interprofessional minimum wage. So unfair, so greedy and, if I may say so, so cutre. This is and this is going to be our vote for the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Socialist Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. My group will vote in favour of this initiative by the Socialist Group, which mandates this improvement of the inter-branch minimum wage. This is not the first time that we have done so in this Parliament and debated it, and we have always supported such approaches. I would like to begin by recalling that last week an agreement was adopted between the social partners in this area. I have not had the feeling that in our debate this afternoon we have given all the courage to social consultation to start reversing the wage policy that has worked in recent years. So let us value him. The social partners, employers' and workers' representatives understand that the wage devaluation strategy has been completed and that economic recovery must also be accompanied by wage recovery. In a legislature where some have seemed to condemn to death the capacity of the social partners to negotiate, it is good that we demand and value that collective bargaining, agreements between workers' representatives and employers continue to work. We are convinced that, on the road that this agreement has announced, the role of collective bargaining to ensure the purchasing power of workers will be fundamental and that the modernisation of labour relations in the Spanish State will suggest that in the area of wages we do not only have the prospect of linking wages to the evolution of consumer prices, as has been the case traditionally, but that we will incorporate with all its complexity the link of wage increases to improving the productivity of companies, and this is only possible in the context of the negotiation between workers' representatives and employers' representatives. This is the fundamental position of Convergence and Union and in this context we argue that today it is indeed necessary to raise the interprofessional minimum wage, which the logic of wage devaluation has no longer made sense. I disagree with some of your colleagues who did not want to understand or accept that, from 2008, 2009 and 2010, at the worst time of the crisis, the Spanish situation did not leave too many alternatives, that regaining the competitive position of the companies demanded this containment of wage increases and that in the first years of the crisis that collective bargaining was not in a position to adapt the wage conditions to the economic context of crisis. We like to quote Paul Krugman - because we are convinced that from the left it is difficult to question him - who in all the landings he made in Spain in 2009, 2010 and 2011 claimed that the only alternative that the Spanish economy had to improve its competitive position in the global markets was to make that effort of wage devaluation. Part of the improvement in the export levels of our economies - in a country oriented to external markets such as Catalonia singularly - had to do with that effort and sacrifice that the workers made. While it is true that the costs of the crisis have not been distributed equitably at the time of economic recovery, when it comes to better sharing and redistribution of economic growth, workers must also benefit from this, and the public policy instrument affecting wages is the government's decision to raise the inter-professional minimum wage. At this time of economic recovery, when economic growth needs to be better redistributed, we must bet on the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. From this point of view we will vote in favour of this initiative, convinced moreover, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this - that the debate on inequalities - which is a debate that has arrived to settle in our economy and in our society - in the Spanish case is very clearly linked to the functioning of the labour market, both in the issue of long-term unemployment and in the working conditions that have been generated during these years of crisis, and in this logic of the measures in which it seems reasonable to move forward, is that objective of reaching 60% of the average wage, as set out in the European Social Charter. It must be our horizon, this initiative goes in that direction and will count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Ramon, I ask you what your position is on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u82	Thank you, President. Firstly, I am grateful for the three amendments put forward by the groups, but we are not going to accept them, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party, because it is of an absolute general nature that does not contribute anything and in the other case because it does not mix concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u83	Then we will vote on its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u84	We move on to the Socialist Group's motion on the assessment of the Government's educational policy during this parliamentary term. This will, according to what has been said at the Spokesman's Meeting, be the last item to be discussed this afternoon. Mr Bedera has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last plenary my group asked the Minister of Education about the assessment of his educational policy in this legislature and we did so before he changed the street of Alcalá to the Champs Elysées. As we pointed out then, after almost four years of continuous ministerial misappropriation, the Minister of Education and his Secretary of State have carried out an indescribable attack on the public school, have pushed us back more than a quarter of a century in funding and in consolidated rights and, what is the matter, ladies and gentlemen, for all this Mr Wert and Mrs Gomendio are going to be awarded with a long Erasmus in Paris. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the motion that we are defending today is part of an axiom, that is, of a truth that does not need demonstration, and we are referring to the sick incapacity for dialogue and consensus of the highest ministerial representatives with the educational community, the groups in this House and the autonomous communities. This has been a constant in this legislature, a lack of insufferable touch that, combined with a palmary ignorance of the educational sphere and a natural arrogance difficult to calibrate, has led the still Minister of Education to reach an insurmountable record of confrontation with his own and strangers. Journalist Manuel Jabois explained this strange unanimity about Minister Wert: 'Only an expert who has worked scientifically on the Spanish databases and knows so much about their tastes can piss them all off'. The motion we are defending today proposes, on the one hand, to repeal those legal measures that have proved to be particularly harmful to our education; secondly, to recover some policies that have previously demonstrated their beneficial effect on the education system and, finally, to suggest some proposals that highlight our priority for education. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to propose to the groups the recovery of common sense in the field of education after the oceanic dislates that Minister Wert and his Secretary of State have submitted it throughout this legislature. The architecture of the new neoliberal model implemented by the People's Party Government is based on three rules for which we urge its repeal. First of all, the Lomce. We urge that the parliamentary agreement signed in this House be implemented to curb what we see as the biggest attack on the public school of all democracy, which breaks the constitutional pact of Article 27 and will leave permanent consequences for equal opportunities if it is not corrected. This repeal, of course, implicitly incorporates the search for a great pact for education that gives stability to our system. We also call for the repeal of Royal Decree-Law 14/2012, of urgent measures to rationalise public expenditure in the educational field, guilty of increasing ratios, of firing thousands of teachers, of the unusual increase in academic fees, of the attack on university autonomy and of a unleashed competitive invasion; a decree-law that has impoverished our education and wounded our equity by hindering the system of double reinforcements that made no student stay behind during compulsory education; a decree-law that, moreover, has ceased to make sense, since the increase in the ratio was conditional on a replenishment rate of less than 50 %. As you know, the 2015 budgets raised this rate from 10% to 50% and thus disappeared the condition that underpinned the increase in ratios. Finally, we urge the repeal of the royal decrees that have modified the grant system, which, disguised as excellent, becomes elitist when equality is eliminated. [[Applauds]] These are royal decrees that have given the point to the status of the scholarship as a right implemented in 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, it is painful and embarrassing to see how the ministry cuts scholarships, bargains for aid and dynamite the social dimension of education, the only oxygen for many students to breathe the university air. To these three normative blocks should be added the repeal of Royal Decree 43/2015, which modifies the management of university education, known as 3+2, until an evaluation of the previous system is carried out, as everyone is asking, including the Conference of Rectors. Our motion also proposes to recover the territorial cooperation programmes, a powerful instrument of improvement as well as a unique opportunity for collaboration between educational administrations. Programmes such as PROA and Education3 were examples of joint action between the central Government and the Autonomous Communities. Having taken up the elements necessary for the good progress of education, it seems to us to be very relevant to recover the subject of Education for Citizenship. It's more than just a subject, ladies and gentlemen, it's a flag that identifies us or not among the countries that bet that citizenship is learned from school. Our motion is finally completed with three lines of work that represent others so much desired in the future. The first is the universalization of education between the ages of three and eighteen, i.e. progressively ensuring a sufficient supply of places for these ages. Secondly, to develop a plan to boost vocational training within the new model of industrial development - you know that we have experience in our country where we look, without going any further, at the Basque Country - and, thirdly, to ensure a minimum percentage of investment in education - in our opinion should be at 5% - with a growth horizon that would give us a level playing field to countries that have made education the cornerstone of their political project, such as Finland or Canada, moving between 6 and 7 % of GDP. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This is the motion that we submit to your consideration to alleviate the educational destruction of the People's Party in this legislature, because while the highest leaders of the ministry will always have Paris, too many students will only have the bitterness of knowing that, thanks to them, many of their educational expectations will be truncated. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Bedera. An amendment has been tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió and Mrs Sayós has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for an inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group generally reflects much of the initiatives that Convergence i Unió has advocated throughout the whole parliamentary term. Although we have tabled an amendment which amends two of the points and which I shall then consider, our intention - apart from, of course, agreeing on the amendments - is to support this motion. Some points are fully in line with our demands for the educational policy of the People's Party, a policy so far opposed to what we have carried out in Catalonia over several decades and whose fruit has been the model of consensus of the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya, a model of success and social integration that had worked without stridence, without social conflict and without any problem until the current Minister of Education, by cosmic chance, decided to undertake his particular Spanish crusade, a word that uses the Wet vocabulary, but on which I do not pronounce myself because it is an offence. I might think about it, but I'm not gonna say it. In any case, yes to the repeal of the Organic Law for the Improvement of the Educational Quality and yes, of course to the repeal of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures to rationalize public expenditure in the educational field, a strong yes because, ladies and gentlemen, we consider it a priority to withdraw this Royal Decree, as proposed by the motion, for unfair and in order to guarantee a system of education of sustained quality with public funds that guarantees equal opportunities for all students, and a system of education of precise quality public investment. A developed country, a leading country, cannot put a price tag on investment in education because investment is future. If the aspirations for our public-funded sustained education system are to end early school leaving, reduce the repetition rate and really improve its quality, we have to ensure the necessary investment for its proper functioning and for the success of the students. We spoke from Convergence i Union of sustained education with public funds and at that point we made the first amendment proposed by our amendment. The motion speaks of a public education service; we speak of a public-funded education service, because the wording of the text seems to us to be more correct and more inclusive with regard to the concerted school, which has great weight in the Spanish State and in Catalonia. With regard to the repeal of the Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality, it would be the previous measure to build a consensus that is implicit in what has always been claimed by Convergence i Unió, i.e. a state pact for education. That is to achieve stability so that the educational community has once and for all a clear frame of reference to devote its efforts to the improvement of education and not to the legal and administrative changes that are imposing on them and which represent a continuous situation of instability and insecurity. Therefore, I repeat: stability in the educational community. Education, the educational system and the educational community must enjoy a pact that is the result of the consensus that gives serenity and provides a solid foundation for the development of an educational model of success and guarantees equal opportunities. In this regard, I can assure you that the Catalonian Parliament has experience precisely in the field of education. The processing of the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya is a clear example. In Catalonia, the educational model and culture are a guarantee of the social cohesion of our society, a guarantee of school success, a platform for achieving a future profession and a basic instrument for the transmission of our culture. The educational institution is basic and Catalan society trusts the model of Catalan school and its model of linguistic immersion, both described and explained in the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya. It is precisely today that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia endorses - and I repeat: it supports - the Catalan educational model, leaving the Government's latest attack on Catalonia to an end. The Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has rejected the precautionary measure requested by the State Advocate to open a new period of pre-registration in Catalan schools, so that families can choose Spanish as a vehicle language. It has rejected it because it considers that this precautionary measure is not appropriate and because this issue is already exhausted by the Llei d'Educació of Catalonia itself by preventing the segregation of pupils for linguistic reasons. It is a triumph for the Catalan educational model.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u88	Mrs. Sayos, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u89	I'm done. It is a triumph for the Catalan educational model, but it is a bitter triumph, because the model of the educational system should not be discussed in the courts. Finally, with regard to the new ordination of official university education, in relation to which the second amendment to the text of the motion we put forward in our amendment refers, we have already said on other occasions, both in the Committee on Education and in this Chamber, that our interpretation of Royal Decree-Law 43/2015 is positive for the Catalan university model. It is positive, but in what we do not agree with is the form adopted by the Government when issuing a real decree, we do not agree that this legislative formula should be used. Flexibilization can be, well applied, a useful tool to seek the continuous improvement of the university system.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u90	Mrs. Sayos, you have to finish. He's running out of time. You say that this is the amendment and that is it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u91	Thank you very much, President, I'm done. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. Mr Alvarez Sostres has the floor for the Joint Group to set positions. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. There are already a number of initiatives in the Commission and in plenary, by the PSOE and other parliamentary groups, on Lomce and other rules affecting scholarships, universities or vocational training, in which there is ultimately a kind of conscientious objection to any rule amending the LOE and the previous existing provisions, as well as to the Government's policy on education and its financing. I am in a hurry to say that I share your diagnosis of funding. The last motion you submitted on the general system was on 9 September 2014. In it I moved them that my not to Lomce had nothing to do with theirs. Mine was not because the general pedagogical framework defined in Lomce was not maintained. It had to do with keeping a toy baccalaureate alive, it had to do with the current regulation of the bases of the FP system, which is so broad and so balkanized that you can really lose and lose all virtualities. I am not making any amendments to you today, except for the whole of it, because your motion is a sort of sterile and already anachronistic broom car about the opinion that Mr Wert's administration deserves. I will not, of course, be the apologeta of Don Ignacio, but I would also not be able to support all the issues raised in his motion. They should now be asked to agree with the People's Party, nationalists and social forces to agree on a common regulatory development within a re-updated financial framework. Everyone should be asked to be reflective of their threat of abrogation, because it involves further reactions, and so on, even the pathetic infinity with scandal of the international community. My assessment, Mr President, is that this legislature will be remembered for the self-recognized reformist candidity of a laboratory ministry unrelated to its own party or to the educational and social world, for the fundamentalist closure of others and for the particularist romantic irrationalism of a partial or totally exclusive fiber nationalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after Minister Atila's passage through the Ministry of Education, it will take a long time for the grass to grow again and after the measures taken and implemented without any kind of contemplation by this government, public education requires a real shock plan to recover it from the current situation, its alarming continued loss of quality and the progressive increase in its privatization, which have jeopardized the achievements of decades and augur a less formed society and with an increase in inequalities without comparison. This shock plan would have to start, in fact, with the repeal of the classism, the segregation and the Spanishization of the Lomce, which in recent days has been rejected again mostly on the occasion of the implementation of the invalids, and the dialogue with the educational community that this Government has flown through the air shortly after its inauguration should begin to recover. Of course, as at the point we discussed earlier, that of dependence, all those items aimed at valuing public education, universalizing it and making it a real guarantee of the future should be provided budgetaryly. More scholarships are needed, to increase the resources for complementary services, to eliminate the precarious working conditions of teachers with lower salaries, to increase the number of teachers, which has been drastically reduced in recent years, especially those devoted to the care of children with special educational needs. University education, in addition to the drop in faculty and scholarships for students and teacher training, has also suffered from decapitalization of research with the continued loss of qualified staff and needs greater public resources in the direction of quality recovery, students and, above all, equal access for students with less economic resources. The view that education is a strategic resource for any State and its population, as well as a historic achievement, has been abandoned by this Government, and its policies have directly attacked equality of opportunity, policies that today place us at the head of Europe in inequality and lack of public spending on education. That's where the People's Party is a real champion. With these principles and their austere policy they have done a very serious damage to the public education system, which has affected...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u95	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u96	I'm done, Mr. President. ... a very serious damage which has affected the public education system and which has very negatively affected the most economically disadvantaged student. It is a damage that will cost a lot of time and resources to alleviate and also to make forceful decisions to reverse this demolition. Some of them are reflected in this motion, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs Ariztegui, inside the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. The course ends and it's time to collect the notes and, of course, also as far as education has been concerned in everything they have touched, but these two minutes only give me to refer to their star theme, the one with which they have crashed: the Lomce. Take a look at the educational centers, listen to the educational community and put the note yourself, because you have it easy. We are clear that education is the best investment and guarantee to build more just and humane societies, to transmit not only knowledge and skills vital to the development of people but also collective values, to advance in equality and inclusion, even more so at this time when you continue to dig into that social, economic and cultural gap between the poorest and the richest and the poorest ever more opulent. Education is the fundamental tool to fill, to clear that abyss. The clash between this aspiration of justice, so rooted in Basque society, and its Lomce, centralist, classist, who only impoverishes, authoritarian, macho, and who looks back, among other things, that shock is brutal, because the values it promotes have nothing to do with the needs of our children, with the priorities of society and with the interests of our society in Bizcaia, Gipuzkoa, Araba and Nafarroa, because all its journey from its adoption by roller to today is the best example of its null democratic culture. Since we met her at Euskal Herria, the rejection of this law is overwhelming and forceful. Proof of this are these last days, in which, in the face of the imposition of invalids, the popular dynamic has responded with responsibility and coherence, with indifference and disobedience, with a courageous generalized plant that has managed to unite a community many times distanced: empty classrooms, tests not carried out. The mothers and fathers who have refused to have their daughters and children test these, the teachers, the centers that, firm, have challenged these orders, the peoples who have supported their schools, believe me, that is the best we have, and have already noted to you: zero potato. They're still in time to recover in September. Repeal Lomce and the other regulations they have adopted. Of course, from Amaiur we reaffirm ourselves in continuing to advance in the construction of our own educational system from Euskal Herria and for Euskal Herria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Ariztegui. Please be quiet and do not make groups to talk in the Chamber. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the debates on education in this House at this time of Parliament have become a sterile exercise. It has been clearly shown that Minister Wert is atrophied - I would say cancelled - to have any capacity for listening and dialogue, and this is why he is unable to hold a public office of the highest level, that of Minister of the Government of Spain. As I have already moved you on one occasion, it lacks each and every one of the qualities for an adequate performance of the management and political leadership required to be at the head of a ministry, and especially that of education. It suspends in coherence, in credibility, in commitment, in affection, in empathy, in self-control, in ability to communicate and listen, in democratic values such as respect for the law, in open and sincere dialogue. On the contrary, his narcissism, his vanity and his megalomania have led him to believe himself intellectually superior to the deputies who make up the various educational administrations, to those who work in schools, schools, ikastolas, high schools, universities; to believe himself superior to the student, to their families, to our families and in general to the whole society that makes up this State called Spain. Involved in his obsession, he has been unable to design and conduct a future educational project for the territory and for the community, to manage the common heritage effectively and honestly and, ultimately, to respond to the demands of the citizenry in a field as transcendental as education. In the face of this, it has preferred to opt for excessive control, for re-centralisation, for the absence of the slightest respect for legality and for the block of constitutionality; for questioning and curtailing the principles of equity and equality, for explosive, exclusionary, ideological and indoctrinational declarations; for disregarding the success cases such as that of Euskadi, best practices, in a peaceful will, as he said, and homogenizing; for disregarding values such as plurality, diversity and the richness of its own languages, also lacking the commitment that it solemnly acquired on 31 January 2012, newly launched its responsibility. It has broken the consensus on the purpose of education: to ensure the solid foundations for the balanced development of the person throughout his life in all its dimensions. Fortunately, there will be a new legislature and new majorities that will help rebuild the foundations for the new educational model, new models of learning in line with the century in which we live. I will tell the Socialist Group that we trust his word, his commitment to the consensus and dialogue repeatedly expressed in this House and in society. In view of the text of the motion that we are voting on today, I have to tell you that you have not been right, in our modest opinion. We believe that it would have been much more generous if it had been formulated in more inclusive terms, far removed from party dogmatism and its electoral agenda. In any case, by sharing the substance of the debate and by reserving ourselves the right to debate and even to disagree in the future, when a new parliamentary majority allows it, on all the points they address in their initiative, I will announce to you that we will vote in favour. Finally, I would not like to conclude this debate today, which inevitably reveals a strong aroma of failure and farewell - today, before the curtain goes down and Minister Wert stares his last mutis by the forum -, without dedicating to him the reading of the passage of Macbeth with which the Minister, in the absence of better arguments, concluded his intervention and cynically, subtlely and displifyingly intended to insult the deputy interpeller by affirming - literal quote and open quotes -: you will remember perfectly - I know that he is a cultivated person and therefore he will recognize the reference; he has shown it to me several times, once he quoted me Thursday and again a letter from Peret - the famous V scene of the V act of Macbeth, when he refers to life as a story full of noise and fury that means nothing, and as you are a cultivated person - he concluded - is throwing away less than a part of the quote. It wasn't the first time it happened. I myself have endured your impertinence as other Members of this House. And given his taste for this work - I also appreciate that he feels identified with this tragedy about treachery and excessive ambition - I invite you to enjoy and reflect on this passage from William Shakespeare's work that comes as a ring to his finger. I'm putting them in position. The protagonist meditates when he learns of the queen's death, and says as follows: Tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow. Falacious word that is slowly leading us to the end of our days, while yesterday illumines the fool the way to gloomy death. Turn off, turn off, sailhead, life is nothing but a wandering shadow, a poor comedian who pompously walks through the stage and who is not heard of anymore. It's a story told by an idiot full of noises and fury that don't mean anything. I trust you've enjoyed it. Have a good trip. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. My group is going to support this motion not so much for a question of detail of the things it proposes - although some of us share them and others would like to spell them out or discuss them - but for a matter of substance. It is true that the educational policy of this legislature of the People's Party Government could hardly be more disappointing. I have referred to this as the other groups in infinite numbers of speeches. I just want to add that they have achieved something that seemed unthinkable to me, it had never occurred to me, they have even managed to get corruption into education, as these days we are seeing again with the Púnica plot, which is being dismantled by the Civil Guard, through the not-so-strange measure that was introduced of making concerted centers on public grounds without any kind of control. That is of honor registration, but of honor registration in the worst sense of the word, of how one can do something that no one had even considered possible, that even education would become a ground for the capitalism of friends and for dirty business. It's really pitiful. That is why we are going to support this motion, because we believe that we really need to go back to the starting point and talk seriously about what can and should be done in education in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary term ends by confirming our worst wishes for the state of public education in our country. In the ministry he has been beaten and everyone is trying to escape from the burning. The penultimate, because my group believes that it will not be the last one to use the revolving door, was Mrs Gomendio. Ms. Montserrat says that she is leaving with the sense of duty fulfilled and it must be recognized that this is the case, that she has fulfilled the ultra-liberal goal of destruction of any public system. We hope and hope that in the next parliamentary term we will be able to reverse the disguise of this evil government, this evil secretary of state and its no less harmful minister. Ladies and gentlemen, an education system is equitable if, in addition to providing the basic knowledge established, it guarantees equal opportunities in the face of opportunities for higher education. On the contrary, if it deprives the most vulnerable population groups in society of the possibility of deepening their education, iniquity will prevail, however much the system guarantees schooling and access to basic education. Ladies and gentlemen, these phrases are not ours, although we subscribe to them from the beginning to the end, it is Save the Children who makes this description of the education system in our country: lack of equity and deprivation of the most vulnerable sectors of access to higher academic levels, to which we add that they violate the constitutional principles in force. It is you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party - I was going to say ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party government, but there are none - who, I insist, violate the constitutional principles in force. It is you, not others, who have initiated a deconstituent process, twisting the norm and eliminating de facto rights achieved over time by workers. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Wert, with the invaluable support of Mrs Gomendio, has not only caught the ship's santabarbarbare, but also, once burned, has led it against the reefs to blow it up, in perfect harmony with other ministerial ships, against social policies and public investment in this country. The minister demands data, but only if they benefit him. Otherwise they are merely uncontradicted speculation or lack of understanding of the data of his own ministry. I do not think that there can be any greater dose of political cynicism than that carried out by the minister, Mr Wert. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there are many official data on which many non-governmental organisations have worked and continue to work in the preparation of their reports, and it will be random, but they all come to the same conclusions as Members of the opposition in this House. A lot of coincidence seems. The data show that you, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party and your Government have ended the fairness of the public education system. The data says that you have opted for a segregating and mercantile system. The data says that you do not bet on the quality of the system and even less on your public workers. The data say that the most vulnerable population is being approached for access to higher academic levels. The data says that you have chosen to teledirect the most vulnerable student to be cheap, almost slave labor. The data says that you have opted for mercantilism above social welfare. Ladies and gentlemen, Malala Yousafzai, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, wrote that a child, a teacher, a book and a pen can change the world. Education is the only solution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear why the education policies of the Government of Don Mariano Rajoy are so important. They do not want to change the world, they want to maintain their neoliberal and predatory postulates while destroying the rights of the working class. That is why we will vote in favour of the initiative that is being brought to us today.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. Mrs Moneo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. I must confess, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that setting a position on this motion has given me some discouragement. I do not have to look back and point out with some frustration that these nearly four years have only been the confirmation that it is truly impossible to enter into any kind of agreement with you when it comes to education. Its only purpose has been, is and will continue to be to prevent an alternative to its educational model. The motion that is the subject of the debate is a faithful reflection of his attitude: to try to change everything, in the end, not to change anything. We are not going to support it and we are not going to do it out of responsibility and conviction, because what you are asking of us is a return to the past. You may feel comfortable with those early absolutely scandalous dropout rates. Not us. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that two years after the adoption of the LOE, its LOE, in 2006, the early drop-out rate was 31.7%, and that today it is 21.2%, two points less than a year ago. Do you want to tell me why we have to give up a substantial improvement in the results of the education system? Ladies and gentlemen, all you offer is burnt land policy, and we are not going to accompany you. We are asked to bury a law that contains the most ambitious and effective measures to achieve school success, successful measures in those countries that have implemented them. The existence of different ways that respond to the interests and abilities of the students, flexible, alternatives to the rigidity that has condemned the students to the highest rates of school failure. Learning and performance improvement programmes to help ensure that no students with difficulties are left behind. The census, external, online evaluations available to seventeen countries in Europe, the same evaluations that improve academic results between 20 and 40%. The basic vocational training that allows for these second opportunities... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u107	Excuse me, Mrs. Moneo, just a moment. Please be silent to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. The basic vocational training - I said -, ladies and gentlemen, which allows these second opportunities so necessary for those pupils who find no answer to their interests within the system. Dual vocational training, which has almost quadrupled the number of pupils and exceeded the number of centres in the last two years. Do you therefore want to tell me where you find the list of prejudices and disqualifications that treasure your speeches in these measures? You want to explain to me where Lomce attacks public school? Ladies and gentlemen, the public school is still a majority in Spain. Of the more than 8 million Spanish pupils, almost 70% attend a public centre. The students come mostly to her, although she has been the one who has stoically suffered the vavenes resulting from her lack of ambition in education. Ladies and gentlemen, the only danger facing public school in Spain is that you will be re-managing education because you are neither an example of educational management nor of resource optimisation. I know it is very helpful to refer to financing as a source of all problems, but you, ladies and gentlemen, have had responsibilities of government, you govern autonomous communities and neither before nor now nor have I ever seen you devote 7% of GDP to education. Are you so sure you won't rule that you allow yourself to make promises that you know you won't have to keep? Let me reiterate: they are incompatible with effective management of public resources. That's why they didn't worry about running an absolutely fictitious scholarship system. The scholarship is a right, of course it is; now, moreover, more than ever because the budget allocation for general scholarships has more resources than ever; because there are more university scholarships than ever; because the system is safer, fairer; because it receives more money who needs it most, but also who strives most. The Supreme Court has recently reiterated this: academic performance was in LOE, it was in the Organic Law of Universities. Ladies and gentlemen, you are nostalgic from the past and that prevents you from seeing the future. They cling to defending measures whose effectiveness is more than questionable: the PROA programs, the Education program3, a clear example of the I invite and you pay so characteristic of their management, or the crown jewel of their educational model, Education for Citizenship, the most aggressive attack on the right that assists parents to have their children brought up according to their own convictions. If anyone, ladies and gentlemen, has violated the constitutional pact, it was you. They did so from the moment they decided that the school was the right place to indoctrinate and now suffer from the chaff for not being able to control their potential disciples. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to a quality, fair and free education system is the pillar on which our political action is based. We have taken important steps, we have much to do but we will not deviate from our path until the Spanish education system is one of the best in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u109	Mr Bedera, I ask you about the amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u110	Yes, Mr. President. We have arrived at a transaction with Convergence i Unió that we have delivered to the services of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u111	Thank you very much. That transaction is the one that we will put to the vote in a few minutes' time. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u112	We will take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure, of two new members of the Congress of Deputies. In place of Mrs. Uxue Barkos, I ask Don Bizente Serrano Izko if he swears or promises to abide by the constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u113	Yeah, I promise on legal imperative. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u114	Quiet, please. In place of Don Joaquín Francisco Puig Ferrer, I ask Don Josep Lluís Grau Vallés if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u115	I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u116	Don Bizente Serrano Izko and Don Josep Lluís Grau Vallés have acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, last Monday, 1 June, Fr Francisco Antonio González Pérez, Member of the People's Party, died in this House during five legislatures. Many of us remember Paco for his political work, for his commitment to Ceuta, from where he was now a delegate of the Government, but also for his affable and always conciliatory character. Today we have also heard the sad news of the death of Don Pedro Zerolo, who, although not a Member of this House, will pass into the history of our country for his unwavering and committed struggle for the defence of civil rights and individual freedoms. With affection and with the desire to convey to your family and friends our feeling of regret and on the proposal of the parliamentary groups, I ask your ladies and gentlemen to keep a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen, standing up, keep a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u118	Let's go to the votes. We do so in the first place by considering the proposed law of the Catalan Parliament amending Law 37/1992 of 28 December 1992 on value added tax in relation to the cultural sector. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 1 telematic vote, 312; in favour, 141; against, 170 plus 1 telematic vote, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u119	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u120	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Group on the creation of the tax on the deduction of income from abuse of law and on the amendment of Law 58/2003 of 17 December, General Tax. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 1 telematic vote, 312; in favour, 139; against, 171 plus 1 telematic vote, 172; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u121	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u122	No bill proposed by the People's Group on the conduct of a study on the development of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Dependent Persons. He's going to vote on his own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 167 against, 137 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u123	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the identification of the minimum inter-professional salary of 60 % of the average salary, as set out in the European Social Charter. [[File number 162/001123]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u124	Proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the dignification of the inter-professional minimum wage by approaching 60% of the average wage, as laid down in the European Social Charter. It is also voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 131 against, 168 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u125	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u126	Motion by the Socialist Group on the assessment of the Government's educational policy during the current parliamentary term. There is an amendment by the Convergence and Union Group and a compromise amendment that Members know, which is what we are voting on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 137 against, 166 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-09-CD150609.u127	The motion is rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine o'clock at night.
