ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u1	The meeting was resumed. Questions addressed to the Government and specifically to the President of the Government. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please. Question by Mr Alberto Garzón, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u2	Mr. President, when are you going to give us back the rights cut off in Decree 20 of 2012, of 13 July?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u3	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u4	Thank you very much for your question. As you know, 2012 was a year of enormous difficulties for all Spaniards. Spain was on the verge of bankruptcy; according to some, it was about to exit the euro. There were many who claimed that Spain would be rescued. This has been avoided and we have avoided some very hard cuts, especially in the area of pensions and unemployment insurance, which have been demanded of other countries of the European Union. Spain, therefore, freed itself from the rescue and freed itself from its effects. Spain maintained the pension system, was able to raise pensions, did not freeze them once during this legislature, and also maintained unemployment insurance benefits. Therefore, I can tell you that in 2012 we got rid of the rescue and above all its effects. Today, the main items of expenditure in the State General Budgets are: first, pensions and second, unemployment insurance, which is falling because, fortunately, jobs are being created in our country. In addition, Spain last year, in 2014, began to grow and create jobs after six years of negative growth and job destruction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u6	Mr Rajoy, in the summer of 2012 you cut off all Spanish social rights. This situation, far from improving, as you intend to make us believe, has worsened. At the moment there are 43% of unemployed people who do not receive a benefit, who live on a forest leap looking for life in all possible ways. This is a dramatic situation, especially for those over the age of forty-five, but also for young people, who have to leave, to emigrate from this country because you have stolen a future from them in your country of birth. This reality also affects their parents and grandparents. Think how many mothers, fathers, grandparents and grandmothers are remembering you and your policies right now, because in Berlin, in Paris, there are many Spanish emigrants who your government doesn't like at all. Perhaps that explains the difficulties this Government is putting these people to vote for. [[Protests]] You're indignant, you're bewildered and kicked here, in Congress, right now for my words, but I would like you to be so outraged at evictions, hunger, inequality, misery and people who lose their jobs out there, on the street. Because the story you just made, Mr. Rajoy, does not correspond to the world out there, it corresponds to your story of propaganda. It does not correspond to the misery of your policies, because it is you, all of you, who vote and give it to the red button produce the misery that is received out there. [[Protests]] They have to be aware: neither by putting cops and fences out of Congress are they going to prevent the world from recognizing them as the culprits of that situation. That's why those cuts... [[Protests Continue]] Indignant, indignant, but I'd like to see you walk down the street, ask people, go to evictions, go to social eateries to ask people how they live, ask them who are responsible, who cut them off, who give them to the red button of their misery. That's politics. Do not think that you are in a bubble: your red buttons are your miseries, so it is important that no account of propaganda hides that truth. And that is why it is also important, Mr Rajoy, that at this moment in which you sell us that account, you be able to give us back the social rights that belong to us all because it is possible. This crisis has made it clear that if there is money to rescue the banks, if there is money to rescue the highways, there is money to rescue the people. It's not a technical problem, it's a political problem. It is a political problem for you, your Government, your priorities and your will. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u7	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, Mr. Garzón, we're gonna be serious. In Spain, between 2008 and 2011, 3,400,000 jobs were lost. Spain experienced an economic crisis as it had not experienced in decades. The Spanish and the Government faced the economic crisis. In 2014, the past, and 2015 the number of Social Security affiliates will increase by more than a million people. That is a very positive fact and demonstrates the change in trend that has taken place in our country in recent years. Employment is the priority objective of this legislature and fortunately already in 2014, after more than six years destroying employment in Spain, jobs start to be created. We have maintained the pension system and have not had to lower it as other countries of the European Union were forced to do. We have maintained unemployment insurance and it has become a heading that has generated expenditure of more than EUR 30 billion per year. We have extended the Preparation, which was previously extended every six months in accordance with the Government's approach at each time. A few days ago we have agreed with the CCOO and UGT trade unions in Moncloa a programme for the long-term unemployed with family burdens, those who are worse, those who have the most difficulty. So much remains to be done, but we have turned to one of the most complex situations we have encountered in many years. All you do is protest, say that everything is wrong, that there is nothing good here and that this country has no arrangement. I am much more optimistic than you, who are installed in nothingness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT, AS SOME OF HIS MINISTERS HAVE SAID, THE WORKERS ARE CONTENT WITH THEIR LABORAL CONDITIONS? 180/001173).
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u10	He asked the President of the Government to ask Mr Pedro Sánchez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, let's talk about optimism. During the last few weeks we have heard the Minister for Employment say that the workers should be happy, the Minister for Economic Affairs say that the Spanish workers no longer have any problems, that they have no fear of losing their jobs, and I would like to say, Mr Rajoy, that in a very concise way - a yes or a no - answer the following question: Do you or do you not agree with what your ministers say about the joy of the Spanish workers? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u12	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u13	Thank you very much. Well, it's hard to know exactly what your question is referring to. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] I think there are people who are not happy with their working conditions, especially those who do not have a job. But those people, who are obviously many, who are not happy - I have said on numerous occasions that there are many things to do - do realize that things are better because today in Spain we are growing, we are creating jobs, prices are contained and consumption has increased. And this year that we have already entered, in 2015, things will go better: there will be greater economic growth - yesterday we have seen what the International Monetary Fund has said -, it will generate more employment than in 2014, consumption will go better and therefore Spain is already clearly paving the way for economic recovery. Much remains to be done, but we are much better than when you left the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u14	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, tell the Spanish the truth, because you don't. You do not say that the level of occupation is lower than when you came to the government, nor do you say that the working population has fallen during these years as a result of your labour reform, nor do you say the type of employment that is being created, Mr Rajoy. When I hear you talking - not only to you but to your government - about the joy of the workers, I wonder who you are talking to, Mr Rajoy. Of course, you do not talk to all the workers who are now charging what was paid thirty years ago or with that half of the workers who are paying 970 euros a month; you do not talk to 60% of the unemployed in this country, who are long-term, on many occasions people over fifty years old to whom you have cut the active employment policies by 10 billion euros. You do not talk to the 3,800,000 unemployed who do not have any kind of benefit for a political decision that is yours, to cut unemployment coverage to the unemployed, Mr Rajoy. You don't even talk to unemployed young people who have had to emigrate or to women who suffer from the pay gap. You, not to mention, do not speak to the 500,000 unemployed whom your Vice-President of the Government, at a press conference in the Council of Ministers, insulted by calling them defrauders; a government that approves tax amnesty to welcome people like Barcenas. By the way, Mr. Rajoy, who saw what he saw yesterday, for the scandal of all the Spaniards, with his message to Bárcenas from: Luis, be strong, you nailed him, Mr. Rajoy; nailed him. [[Rumors]] We are not of Montoro philosophy, we are not those of: let Spain sink, that we will already sell. We are happy with the macroeconomic data, but let us tell you one thing, Mr Rajoy: there will be no economic recovery here until the labour rights and opportunities of a working middle class that you are sinking with your policies are recovered. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u17	Here, the Spanish workers' rights have been liquidated by 3,400,000 people, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, you're in a competition that I don't think leads you anywhere with the United Left and We can see who says things are getting worse. [[Rumors]] Before, when they ruled, they denied the existence of the crisis and that produced the effects we all know, and now deny the existence of recovery. I say that much remains to be done, that we have to do many things in Spain and maintain the economic policy that we have put in place, but to see if you are able to deny here in this House that in 2014, after six years of negative economic growth, we grew, that in 2014 employment was created for the first time in seven years in our country, that in 2014 for the first time in seven years increased the number of members of Social Security, that in 2014 for the first time in seven years unemployment was reduced, that tomorrow's EPA will be the one that we will know tomorrow, that in 2014 indefinite contracts will rise by 19%, that inflation in Spain is below 0%, that next year will create 600,000 more members of Social Security, that are increasing tourism, exports and consumption. [[Laughter]] Ignoring reality is an excellent way to make no decision. This has changed. I know that the change is not enough, but in 2011 employment was reduced by 8% per year in Spain and now 5% per year is being created. That, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you will see in the EPA tomorrow. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE JUDGMENT OF THE COURT SUPREME TO KEEP THE ULTRAACTIVITY OF COLLECTIVE CONVENTIONS TO DETERMINE THEIR WORK REFORM? [[File number 180/001174]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u18	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, by Mr Antonio Hernando, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, on 19 December the Supreme Court decided that the terms agreed on in a contract, whether directly or by reference to a collective agreement, were of a contractual legal nature and that, irrespective of whether the agreement had been terminated, workers and employers could be required to do so. The core of your 2012 labor reform is the loss of ultra-activity of the agreements, a long-standing demand made by the entrepreneurs and that you got with you. That is why I ask you what the Government will do after knowing the core of this Supreme Court resolution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hernando, the Government respects the judicial decisions, but in order to appreciate them, we must know them well and the sentence to which you refer has not been published, and we will therefore wait for it to be published in order to evaluate it. That's what rigor requires, another thing is what you do this morning. Good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u22	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u23	Rigorous and institutional means that the President of the Government should not use the EPA, whose data have not come out, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] A little bit of shame. The four fundamental elements of their labour reform were wage devaluation, the modification of collective bargaining and the facilitation and reduction of layoffs. The loss of ultra-activity of the agreements has led to the deterioration of working conditions, mainly of women workers, and also to the lowering of wages. Wages have been devalued as a result of corporate denunciation of collective agreements. And the essential core of this sentence - which has been known for a month now - restores the workers to that weakness situation in which you had put them. The Supreme Court lays down the vault key to its labour reform. To the last two oral questions I asked you in this Chamber you did not answer me and I therefore had to register them in writing. Madam Vice-President, today I ask you to tell us the truth and to be rigorous. If the essential core is to bring down labour reform, what are you going to do? How many workers will this sentence affect? Are they going to reform or are they not going to reform the law after the Supreme Court ruling? Finally, I ask you not to lose the papers as you did yesterday through an official tweet from the Ministry of Justice saying: 'The injured is the PP. Barcenes took money from the PP. There's no B box that's accredited.' The Government of all Spaniards has lost any institutional sense, as the President has shown right now. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u25	Mr. Hernando, you are dared to talk here about getting lost. Mr Hernando, it is the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the GPS, that has problems with guidance. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Secondly, Mr Hernando, if the key to labour reform is the ultra-activity of the conventions and you are so concerned about it, why did your parliamentary group, which has recourse to everything, not resort to this article when it went to the Constitutional Court with the labour reform? Why didn't you appeal it? You want to talk about collective bargaining? [[Rumors]] I'll give you some data. Firstly, Mr Hernando, more collective agreements are being concluded, 45% more in 2014 than in 2011. Secondly, fewer EREs, fewer employment regulation files, 47 % less in 2014 than in 2011. Thirdly, there is less labour conflict, 25% less strikes in 2014 than in 2013. [[Rumors]] And let's talk about employment. You made a labor reform that resulted in 3.5 million more unemployed. Now, this year, there are 400,000 more Social Security affiliates and indefinite recruitment is growing, Mr. Hernando. Do you know what I think the problem is? That you are concerned and do not like the reforms of the PP because they put you in evidence, because what the International Monetary Fund says puts you in evidence, Your Honor. You come to me to talk about the ultra-activity of the conventions when what has been shown is that in this country the crisis has been so severe because of the ultra-passivity of the Socialist Party in the government and in the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT OPINION DOES YOU DESERVE THAT NUMBERS OF MASTERS ARE VALUING A PREJUDICIAL QUESTION TO THE COURT OF LUXEMBOURG BEFORE THE POSSIBLE INCOME TRANSPOSITION OF FRAMEWORK DECISION 675/2008 REFERRED TO HOW THE JUDGMENTS MITTED BY OTHER MEMBER COUNTRIES SHOULD BE VALUED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001171]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u27	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Mr Aitor Esteban, of the Basque Group, asked first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u28	Mr Minister, how do you feel that many judges are considering raising a question which is prejudicial to the Court of Luxembourg in view of the possible incorrect transposition of the framework decision on how judgments issued by other Member States should be assessed?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u29	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Esteban, I do not know whether many judges, as you say in your question, are considering going to the Court of Justice of the European Union, what I do know is the recent decision of the Supreme Court, of last week without going any further, of the 16th, where it has clarified and laid down a clear and common position so that all the courts know how to interpret in this case a framework decision and an organic law adopted by this Parliament. I therefore believe that when the supreme body in our judiciary has established a common doctrine, there should not be much doubt as to how to apply the rules in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u32	Minister, you know that you have sin, the government has sin in transposition not only by the principle of retroactivity of the most favourable penal law enshrined, sensu contrary, in article 9.3 of the Constitution and affirmed already since sentence 881 by the Constitutional Court, but by the forms, because it was not in the project where you placed the temporary limit for the impossibility of accumulating sentences prior to August 15, 2010. It had to be the People's Group in the Senate, in a second phase, that nightly and very silently introduced that amendment. Therefore, you should not be very convinced that you were doing the right thing because you would have done it from the beginning. Thirteen of the eighteen Supreme Court judges signed a letter of protest against government interference on 18 December. This is an unprecedented fact to date. Three judges of the First Section of the National Court have sought protection from the General Council of the Judiciary for being disturbed by the independence of three leaders of the People's Party, two of them members of the Government, the Vice-President, the Minister of the Interior and the current spokesman of the People's Party, suggesting that the court prevails in its resolutions. Even the Minister of the Interior has publicly raised the issue of continuity, which perhaps should be eliminated the National High Court, which seemed so useful very recently. That is their policy right now, to pressure the judges and to pressure the interpretation of the laws. Now they talk a lot about terrorism and reaching agreements, but they deny, if all this is so important, the connection of international police data to the Ertzaintza and the Mossos d'Esquadra. The lehendakari has been offering an agreement on terrorism for two years and there has not yet been a response, not even a gesture by his Government. What the people in Euskadi want, and I believe that throughout the Spanish state, is to address the end of terrorism and that is not being done by the government. You with your actions show that instead of wanting to close that folder serenely and taking steps, you are committed to keeping it open fictitiously, pressing the judiciary and who knows why. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u33	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Esteban, as I said in the first intervention, the Supreme Court last week, by a majority of the Criminal Chamber, has established a correct interpretation of the framework decision of the European Union and of the organic law. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] He has told us how to interpret it, how organic law perfectly reflects the spirit of the framework decision, just as other countries have done. France has done it, Germany has done it, Italy has done it by transposing that same framework decision and it is not only the Supreme Court, but it is the European Commission itself in the report it issued last June, when it made an assessment of how European legislation was applied in the different countries, which has also ratified the correction in that application. Therefore, the substance of the question of your question today can leave us all very calm. We have, Your Honor, a State of law, a State of guarantees, a State in which the rights of all, and especially those who have been victims of crimes, of those who have suffered the worst crimes such as those of terrorism, are defended. I recognize, Your Honor, that I am sometimes surprised by the interest that some legal and political sectors have in seeking loopholes in legislation to find the most favorable interpretation for terrorist killers. It is surprising that some make efforts to find gaps, raise doubts and questions. If we have to try to find positions, I think it is always better to be on the side of the Democrats, even on the side of the victims and not on the side of the executioners. So, Your Honor, be very calm. There is an organic law passed by this House that ensures the correct implementation of the framework decision and is endorsed by the Supreme Court and the European Commission itself. In any event, if a judge or judge considers it necessary to raise a preliminary question, even if the Supreme Court has already made clear the correct application of the rule, that way will have opened it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u35	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Soraya Rodrigez Ramos, in replacement of Mrs Reda Aguilar River, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister of Justice: What will the Government do after the report of the General Council of the Judiciary that considers that the intervention of telecommunications is not subject to the Constitution without the provision of judicial authorization under the preliminary draft law on criminal prosecution? [[File number 180/001175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u36	Question also to the Minister for Justice, Mrs Soraya Rodríguez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this is not the first time that my parliamentary group has questioned you and demands that you withdraw the preliminary draft law on criminal prosecution in connection with the intervention of communications without judicial authorization. Today I ask you to have rigour, veracity and clarity in your answer. On 17 December you said in this House that your preliminary draft was supported by judges, prosecutors and doctrine, but you knew it was a lie. The judges do not support it - the General Council of the Judiciary has said no -, the prosecutors do not support it - the Fiscal Council yesterday said no - and the associations of lawyers and lawyers have said no, because their reform is clearly unconstitutional and you know it. He also said in this House that his reform was only intended to keep an article introduced, of course, by a socialist government, but you know it is a lie. Its reform seeks to amend this article, which is precisely constitutional under article 55.2. In that country, communications may only be made without prior judicial authorization in the case of armed gangs or terrorist offences. What you claim is that your partner, this or the Minister of the Interior on duty, is the one who decides in which crimes, in what serious circumstances and for what reasons telephone communications can be made to a citizen in this country. He, the one of the law gags, the one who wants to legalize the hot returns. What a fear! That is a police state; in a democratic state it is done by the judge on duty, who for that is twenty-four hours in court. That is why, Mr Catalá, tell me today whether you are going to withdraw that article or not. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u39	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as you know, we are at the stage of preparing the preliminary draft. We will therefore have ample opportunity to study the reports of both the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council and, subsequently, the Council of State. The Government will receive these reports, study them, evaluate them and finally bring a bill to this House. I therefore assure you, Your Honor, that we will have plenty of time to discuss the technical quality of the law and the contents, which are many and very varied, not just the one to which your Honour refers. In any case, as you also know if the report that has already been issued by the General Council of the Judiciary has been read, it is generally a positive report, it is a favourable report, it is a report that praises the reforms that are being proposed there and that makes two or three exceptions to which your Lordship attaches great importance. They certainly do, but not in order to disqualify absolutely a project that seeks to improve our criminal justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u41	Minister, I give you so much importance because we are talking about fundamental rights and when we talk about fundamental rights we are talking about the pillars on which we build and uphold our rule of law today. Do you know what's going on, Minister? That fundamental rights are not sifted, not sifted. Either they are protected or violated; or they are respected or broken, which is what you do in this preliminary draft criminal prosecution law and which is what your Government has done with the Fees Act: trampling on citizens' constitutional right to access to justice every day if they have no money to pay the fees. Already worth moderate speeches in which you say you will modify, value... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u42	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u43	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you said that in your first speech. We are reforming a Criminal Prosecution Act which, in its various versions, one of which refers to article 588 which regulates this type of intervention, was adopted in 1988 by a government of the Socialist Party, and has worked very well for twenty-five years, with absolute exceptionality for crimes that at that time had special sensitivity, such as terrorist crimes and armed gang crimes. We have simply raised the possibility of extending this type of crime to others that are also today particularly complex and that are developed in an international context, such as trafficking in human beings, pederasty or some other committed by organized gangs. In any case - I insist once again - it does not cease to be a proposal, it is a preliminary draft. We're going to study the reports we're going to receive. We have the best disposition that this law, like so many others - then we will talk about the Criminal Code in this House - can be adopted with the greatest possible degree of consensus. I do not know whether you have had the opportunity to read the draft of Article 588 which speaks of proportionality, specialty, singularity, judicial control, in any case by agreed interventions, either prior or retrospective intervention, but always with judicial guarantees. I am therefore sure that we will have a good criminal prosecution law and a good judicial system for monitoring police proceedings, and I hope that we will have the consensus of this House to approve a good reform of our criminal procedural law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u44	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON ANTONIO SANTÓ GARCÍA DEL MORAL, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DO YOU THINK YOUR GOVERNMENT'S AUSTERITY POLICY HAS GRANTED HIS FRUITS IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u45	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. Firstly, Mr Antonio Cantó, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, asks.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u46	Mr Montoro, do you believe that your Government's austerity policy has borne fruit in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u47	Thank you, Mr. Cantó. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, you have borne fruit. No one will deny that the government's budgetary policy, together with the structural reforms, has caused an economic recovery that puts us at the head of the growth of the European Union, of the euro area in particular, as recognized by the International Monetary Fund in its last report, and that this is hopeful to solve the economic crisis and job creation in Spain. I add, Mr Cantó, that this budgetary policy has never been supported by UPyD, i.e. thanks to you not. With this, now that we are in the phase of economic recovery we can tell the Spaniards that UPyD has done nothing at all to facilitate the exit of the crisis in Spain. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u50	Mr Montoro, the RAE defines austere as rigorously adjusted to moral standards. I would like you to explain to me what morale allows you to be responsible for having more than 5 million unemployed this year; that more than half of them, 2.7 million, do not receive any benefits; that 1.8 households have all their active members unemployed; that the regional governments have reduced their investment in health care by 13%; that they have excluded medicines from their coverage; that they have established a co-op; that they continue to have no problems quickly, such as hepatitis C, which causes, Mr Montoro, 10 or 11 deaths per day; that in education they raise the educational burden of teachers; that there are more pupils per class; that small schools are closed; that there are still no nurseries; that aid to the dependency is lowered and impossible. Does your morale permit you, Mr. Montoro? All this is especially affecting the most vulnerable people. According to Oxfam, we are the second most unequal country in Europe, only after Latvia. We are the second member of the European Union with the highest child poverty, only after Romania. We invest half of the resources that European countries invest in our environment in child support. We dedicate billions to rescuing savings boxes while the evictions continue and you just fatten the debt. Does that allow her morale? Mr Montoro, we are certain that those sacrifices that you are imposing on Spanish families and companies are not being applied by you in the administration. Does your morale allow you to maintain in the meantime deputies; not to merge municipal services; to maintain those advisory councils where Mr Gallardón or the Camps in turn are placed in days, charging more than 8,000 euros for working one morning a week; to maintain agencies, embassies, advisers, which have multiplied by all the autonomous communities to place their own? Why don't you apply your scissors there once and for all? There is another meaning of austerity, Mr Montoro, which has to do with withdrawal, mortified, penitent. Withdrawal, excluded from the system you are having all the people of this country; mortified, suffering, and penitent because we are counting the remaining days to stop suffering under your government. I will add a small comment: I am very proud that I have never voted and therefore that I am not complicit in your policies, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u51	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u52	Of course not, Mr. Singing, nor need I do. [[Rumors]] Spain had political stability and had a parliamentary group strong enough to do what was done at a certain time in the country, and that has borne fruit. I'm going to insist this morning against forecasting. International agencies today predicting that Spain is leading economic growth in Europe did not anticipate that the recovery would begin in 2013. It began because the Spaniards made a great effort and a great sacrifice; it began because this country knows how to react when it has to rise. You have not understood this, and what you have done has been a petty, small-spectrum, scar opposition that has displaced you in the political change that is taking place in Spain. That is what you have come to practice in this House, trying to confuse people. In Spain, social expenditure amounts to 27.5 % of gross domestic product, which we have been able to maintain with public debt issues. As I had occasion to explain yesterday from the rostrum - if you had been present in the Chamber perhaps you would have been able to find out - of every 4 euros of the FLA, 3 have gone to social spending. That is the expenditure that has been maintained, that has not been restricted in our country and that, therefore, has managed to maintain basic social cohesion at such a difficult time as it was in the destruction of jobs. Now we're starting a new stage and we'll continue...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u53	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED SUSANA SUMELZO JORDÁN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT ARE THE REAL DATA OF HIS ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM? [[File number 180/001176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u54	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration by Mrs Susana Sumelzo of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, your Government is proud to have saved 18 billion in the administration, but does not detail them. Our parliamentary group has put 400 questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many the government has answered? Two, Minister. Four hundred questions and two answers, this is the transparency of which you presume. That is why we ask you: Can you give us the real details of your administrative reform? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Sumelzo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u57	Mr President, honourable Member, you will not say that this minister has not complied with the control requirements of this House during this parliamentary term. We have a few questions, a few questions, some interventions in the Committee on Finance and Public Administration. Therefore, the questions and controls have been answered; another thing is that you have not been satisfied. The data is the ones you insisted on this morning. The data are the same as in the report examined by the Council of Ministers on the return of this Christmas, and from this the report, on the CORA balance sheet, contains savings for public administrations of EUR 18 billion. By the way, behind this is the closure of many public entities, almost two thousand, distributed among local administrations, autonomous administrations and the General Administration of the State; in addition, there is the savings resulting from the introduction of the Electronic Administration, which is saving more and more paperwork and reducing a lot of bureaucracy. All this was composed of a smaller bureaucracy, which is what our country needs to get out of this economic crisis. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Sumelzo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u59	Minister, you have given us no data or half, and you will understand that those who give us do not believe them, because it is clear that if you do not answer four hundred questions it is because you do not have clear how to answer, how to explain the figures that you sell to bowl and bowl. In any case, by failing to answer our questions, they are abandoning their duties, they are failing to fulfil their obligations, and - what seems to our group to be more serious - they are denying the right of citizens to know the State's accounts accurately. They have had an opportunity to be transparent and have not used it. Do you know why they didn't? Because his Government was lying, its Government called reforms to what were actually cuts; cuts in the medical services of more than 1.5 million public employees; cuts in health, education, dependency and culture; and real cuts to the middle classes and workers in that country. Your reforms, Minister, are tax amnesty for those who have the most and much worse quality public services, with lower paid public employees. Mr Montoro, I will give you some data from your own department, from the 2014 survey of the Agency for the Evaluation of the Quality of Services. In 2011, 63% of citizens considered the provision of services to be satisfactory and in 2014 43%, a drop of 20 points. Mr Montoro, you're doing it very badly, we're going back a long way in the quality of services. You will be able to answer me whatever you want because I am not going to be able to answer you, but the only truth is that with your policies you have managed to bring the Spanish administration to the worst situation in your history; you are not being told by this parliamentary group, you are being told by the Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u60	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the government's intention is to turn the administration into a driving force for economic recovery and job creation. We will be right or not, but we have our policies, and we are determined, in terms of public administration reform. That is what the Government's policy is all about, not only in terms of economic policy, but also in terms of the structural reforms that the Government is undergoing; this is also about avoiding the duplication of powers between public administrations. What we do not include in our programme of government, neither now nor when we were opposed, is demagogy, as did its Secretary General, Mr Sánchez, this morning when he referred to me and spoke of Montoro philosophy. The only project that this modest Minister of Finance and Public Administration has is to contribute to the economic recovery of Spain. I have never uttered a phrase like that used by your secretary general to refer to me, never. [[Rumors]] You won't find a private recording or... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u62	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHEN IS THE MINISTER OF AFFECTING ALL THE TRUTH ABOUT TAX AMNISTIA? [[File number 180/001177]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u63	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Pedro Saura, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when will the Spanish know the truth of the tax amnesty? I was asking him in September of last year if anyone in the Pujol family had taken up the tax amnesty. You, in a subtle, calculated way, told me that Mr. Pujol did not. These days by a national means of communication we have known that from a report of the Tax Agency - which you know perfectly well - Oleguer Pujol has regularized, has grown 4.5 million euros, from the tax amnesty. Mr Montoro, have the Pujol family, and more specifically Mr Oleguer Pujol, taken up the tax amnesty? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Saura, I have an obligation under the General Tax Act in its article 95 in my public appearances. By the way, the Government's plan is to amend that law, for which we will consult with the Socialist Group. I ask you to be rigorous; the information you refer to comes from the open judicial procedure, which shows that having accepted the extraordinary tax declaration no one is exempt from the crimes that he may have committed. That is what is shown in the case that you quote and also in the others. In Spain there has not been a tax amnesty, that is what is shown. The tax amnesty, according to the Royal Academy of Language, means the legal oblivion of crimes that extinguishes the responsibility of its perpetrators. What we are seeing is that there has been no extinction of the responsibility of its authors. Have you finally understood, Mr. Saura, or are we going to need hundreds of these cases? If your parliamentary group has already understood this, I would also tell you to explain it to Mr Sánchez, to see if he is already leaving so much demagogy and makes a serious and rigorous approach, of an alternative of economic policies to which the Spanish Government is applying, because the role of the opposition, Mr Saura, is to offer alternative and to give up populisms and demagogies. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, you who cherish the lives and miracles of artists, journalists and politicians, how would you not know that report and how did you not know the truth of Mr Oleguer Pujol's tax amnesty? You, who leak the tax agency's information as it suits you, when it suits you and in the sectarian way it suits you, how could you not know in September last year what I was asking you? You who use the Tax Agency as tax advice for large companies and large estates, how would you not know? What happens is that you didn't want to tell the truth. You fooled the Spaniards in parliamentary office; you fooled us because you don't want the Spaniards to know the truth, that white-collar criminals in this country have taken over the tax amnesty to get away with tax and criminally. Mr. Montoro, the prosecutor of the Bárcenas case makes a request for a reduction of the sentence because he has received the tax amnesty. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, Mr. Bárcenas is going to leave in rositas. Mr. Bárcenas is going to go off on tax rositas. It's all squared away. A bargain, a fiscal amnesty for his friends and Mr. Barcenas to leave on tax and criminal charges. Tell us the whole truth, Mr. Montoro. We Spaniards deserve a government that tells the truth, we don't deserve a minister like you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u69	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Saura, of course what the Socialist Group does not deserve is a spokesman like you, who is going through the legislature he is doing. [[Laughs.-Protests.-Applause.]] Haven't you read the state's attorney's report on Mr. Bárcenas' case? In this case, defending the position of the Tax Agency, it does not accept the fiscal regularization of Mr Bárcenas, the extraordinary tax declaration, as explained by the State Law. That doesn't interest you. [[Rumors]] What interests you - that's what Mr Sánchez said in the budget debate - are demagogic ports; that's what you do by throwing public opinion, demagogic ports. So there is no way to hold a serious and rigorous debate about anything that is happening in our country. I will remind you that the one who did things was a socialist government, with Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, because when you had the information of customer fraud in Switzerland, in particular, at the headquarters of the HSBC, there was the... [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u71	Minister, you're running out of time, you have to measure it. Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN LOURDES MUÑOZ SANTAMARÍA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT HAVE THE REASONS FOR THE NEW DIMENSIONS PRODUCED IN THE TRIBUTARY AGENCY? [[File number 180/001178]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u72	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mrs Lourdes Muñoz, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u73	Minister, November 2013, removed the summit of the Central Delegation of Major Taxpayers. Scandals, cessations, resignations, uncover the internal crisis of the Tax Agency. This January, he resigned again on a chain in the Unit of Great Taxpayers. Technicians talk about a lack of impartiality and objectivity. Do you think this does not affect the credibility of the Tax Agency? Do you think all this scandal can be described as justice? These were questions I asked when I asked him: What assessment does the Government make of the resignations at the Tax Agency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u74	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, on recent occasions, three officials from the fifth to sixth levels of management in the organisation - I repeat, from the fifth to sixth levels of management in the organisation - have proceeded to their removal, because we cannot even talk about resignation; they are posts of free designation, so they have decided that. It is true that we live in a moment - I will acknowledge it to your lordship - in which certain media speak and call it: wave of resignations. In an organization of more than 26,000 people in which 3 officials resign from their job - I insist - in the fifth or sixth hierarchical level of the organization... Finally, it is a situation to which the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has to respond before the House; it is a control of something really fundamental. The Tax Agency is far above any kind of pressure, whether it's called politics or it's called economic interest. Its results have to be welcomed by all Spaniards: the effectiveness of its management, the fight against fraud, the fight against fraud in all parts of our society, the fight against fraud also in the large taxpayers, because there has never been such an effective time in the fight against fraud. That is, anyone who launches insidia - whether they are called technical or non-technical - what they have to do first is to carry out their complaints with their names and surnames on specific cases that really identify where legally established procedures are not being applied. From there the Government's plan is to bring for the first time that statute of the Tax Agency that gives security and reliability to all. Obviously we are going to consult with the Socialist Group and the other groups in this House, as I had the opportunity to announce a few months ago. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u76	Thank you, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u77	Minister, to govern is to put the best ideas and the best people at the head of the institutions, to put the party at the service of the country; you believe that to govern is to put the institutions at the service of your party. To govern is not to pressure officials, it is not to influence the decisions of the Treasury in favor of some powerful ones, of whom they have the most, of whom they should pay the most. The worst of all this scandal is its consequences: the loss of credibility of the Tax Agency. When the tax conscience is undermined, who will want to contribute if you suspect that some of those who have to pay the most are forgiven. We lose collection and the ties and trust of citizens in institutions are further deteriorated. Minister, this is the first time in this democracy that in a few months it has twice resigned from the Finance Summit of the Office of Major Taxpayers. People of the Treasury, officials who have spoken these days, point to escape of officials, decapitation of the agency, fear. Can those who control those who have the most to pay work well? His Government at the service of the party was detrimental to the impartiality of the institutions, to democracy; there were already too many, the institutions of the rule of law questioned, in question: resignation of the State Attorney General, leaks of internal reports of political opponents and now officials of the Tax Agency resigned and there was talk of political interference in favour of some, of whom they had the most. Do you think this contributes to the rule of law, to justice, to people thinking that the Tax Agency works for everyone? I will remind you of a motto from many years ago: Finance is all of us. Don't forget your friends, the ones who have the most, too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u78	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, try to read some figures. How's the collection going? See you, see you. Does that have anything to do with the tax agency? All with the tax agency. How's the fight against fraud going? The collection from the fight against fraud is increasing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u80	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR CARLOS CASIMIRO SALVADOR ARMENDARIZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT NEW MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO FRONT TERRORISM? [[File number 180/001170]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u81	Question to the Minister for the Interior. It is formulated by Mr Carlos Salvador, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, two weeks ago you announced your intention to push for a major anti-terrorism agreement. All terrorism always acts the same, on a basis that is a mixture of fanaticism, radicalization and prepotence with which they believe all their crimes justified; they attack with impunity the freedom and life of people, pretending to socialize their hatred seeking to provoke fear and break living together, generating conflicts where there are none and disregarding the values that lay at the heart of our society. Terrorism is that snake that changes skin permanently according to its interest in the destruction of coexistence and peace. That is why I ask you, Minister: what we are doing, what we are going to do and what you are going to do to combat the terrorist threat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u83	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Salvador, the Government has been working for a long time in both the operational and the normative fields, both at national, community and international level, to address the threat of terrorism that aims to destroy the system of freedoms and values on which our coexistence is based. You know perfectly well, Your Honor, that Spain is perhaps the country that has suffered the most and for the longest and most intense terrorism; that terrorism - in particular the age - which, as your Lordship pointed out, intended to impose a totalitarian and exclusive project on society as a whole on the basis, as ETA said in one of the last papers, of the socialization of suffering and terror as a means of achieving its objectives. Well, the democratic and rule-of-law state has succeeded in police defeating ETA and also the Grapo, and now it is a question of providing us with the appropriate means to deal with the threat of that terrorism of the twenty-first century, of a jihadist sign. It's obvious that we're all going to make it. I would like to remind you, however, without prejudice to the clarification of some of the questions in the reply, that we already approved the national security strategy in 2013. Previously, in 2012 we approved the comprehensive national strategy against international terrorism and radicalization. The General Secretariat of Prison Institutions has been implementing a long-standing programme of intervention against Islamist inmates in prisons. I myself intend to lead to the eventual approval of a future Council of Ministers a national strategic plan to combat violent radicalisation, which aims to design a multidisciplinary approach to deal with radicalisation and violent extremism. I am convinced that with those instruments and others that we are negotiating in a genuine state pact with the Socialist Group, to which we wish to see as many groups as possible incorporated, we will also be in a position to defeat that international terrorism together, as we were able to defeat ETA terrorism in the past. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u86	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no citizen is born a terrorist. Terrorists are made, manufactured. What we must ask ourselves is why, where, how and who make any young person a terrorist; that is the question. Our contribution to that great agreement that you announce is that those condemned for serious acts of terror cannot exercise teaching; they cannot be educators, teachers or teachers, so that they cannot have the opportunity to brainwash young people to use us in their goals of destroying our coexistence. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, those who have been convicted of serious crimes of terrorism by training their sons and daughters? We must combat terrorism when it acts, when it attacks without a doubt, but also when that snake incubates its eggs precisely where the less danger it appears and the less life-threatening it seems. Minister, we must defend ourselves against the ideologies of hatred and prevent and shield our young people from dark characters who only seek to radicalise them, and we must do so urgently because this may be happening now. That is why I ask you, Minister, to incorporate into this great agreement the proposal of the Navarro People's Union so that terrorists are not teachers. I hope that they will reach that agreement and do so by joining as many groups as possible in this House, and I also hope that they will incorporate this proposal with which terrorists should know and understand that Spanish society will never, ever surrender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Count on it, Mr. Salvador. Indeed, it was an initiative of his group - and in particular of his lordship, I recognize it - the special disqualification for teaching of those who were convicted of terrorism. It seems to us absolutely justified and will be the subject of that state agreement in the terms that I have pointed out and that you have also commented on, as well as others that refer to...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT ARE THE REASONS FOR THE PACKAGE APPROACH IN RELATION TO THE NUMBER OF PASSENGERS CARRIED BY THE DIFFERENT HIGH-VELOCITY LINES? [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001183]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u90	Question to Mrs de Fomento, by Mr Pere Macias, from the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have recently given a figure of EUR 14,245 million, which is the amount that has been allocated throughout your mandate to investments in the new high-speed network. This is a huge, very important amount, and it is therefore a state policy that I believe must be fundamental at the moment. However, to endorse State policies, citizens need to be aware of the data on this policy. My question, which I literally transcribe to you, refers to an appeal for maximum transparency in relation to this policy: what are the reasons, Minister, for the information blackout in relation to the number of passengers transported by the different high-speed lines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. There is no lack of information, quite the contrary; there are data, there are many data and they are also magnificent.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u94	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u95	Minister, with all my affection, if I may say so: data, having them, had them; but until 2012 this publication of the Fomento Group gave data like that in the year 2011 - the last one we have - 2,545,907 passengers traveled from Madrid to Barcelona; or, for example, that in the station of Seville, Santa Justa, they went up or down 2,652,030 passengers. But this, which has continued to be published in the yearbooks of 2013 and 2014, has become a kind of institutional propaganda where any data of statistical value has disappeared. Therefore, Minister, there has been a real blackout. I believe that at a time when the Vice-President - who is not now - is giving us all lessons in information transparency, something that already existed, that was very well, that was a well-worked statistical series to which all the citizens of the country had access because besides the information was available on the web, now it has disappeared, even for a parliamentarian access to this data is a gypsy of a stratospheric proportions. [[we need to be transparent, we need to give citizens the information]] Minister, that's not true. The data do not exist or it is very difficult to find them and neither on the Renfe website nor on the Spanish Railways website do these data exist. Minister, please, transparency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u96	Thank you, Mr. Macias. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Macias, with the same affection and respect with which you have told me. Look, Your Honor, things must go very well when you ask me about a yearbook. The Ministry publishes numerous statistical data, all of them on railways: the statistical bulletin and the statistical yearbook, the annual report on transport and infrastructure; the annual report, the annual accounts, which also have the activity data; and the management report that Renfe Operadora makes every year. In particular, the data for which you are asking are compiled by the Railway Observatory, which will, by the way, be published in the coming weeks. But in addition, Your Honor, in the Pitvi and in the logistics strategy we have created the Ministry's Transport and Logistics Observatory, which is an integrated source of information where, in addition to all that railway, road and aeronautical data, those of logistics and metropolitan transport, which, as you know, were not published, appear for the first time. Your Honor, we work to make the data the best; so much so, Your Honor, that the data are excellent and that is the most important of the yearbooks, which collect excellent data. Compared to the 23 million passengers of 2011, last 2014 the AVE and long distance trains have reached almost 30 million passengers, 28.5 % more and 15 % more than in 2013. In 2011, in Catalonia, 4.9 million travellers moved; in 2012, 16% more; in 2013, 20%, and in 2014, 26% more. That is, from 4.9 million we have gone to 8.6 million. This is really important and what you should be worried about. Therefore, full transparency and also that transparency what it says is that the data on the use of the railway in Spain are splendid, why?, because we have done a commercial policy that has been magnificent for citizens to access a service that is of all and for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u98	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDE TO IMPLEMENT THE SALARY SUBJECT IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001179]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u99	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. He asked, first of all, Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is your Government planning to boost a wage rise in our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u101	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Heredia, as you know very well, the government does not set wages, wages are decided in collective bargaining between workers' representatives and business representatives. They are currently negotiating a renewal of the collective bargaining agreement of January 2012 to, as the President of the Government and myself were told, accompany the rise in wages to the process that is already taking place in Spain of job creation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u104	Minister, the other day I was reading statements from your colleague De Guindos saying that the Spaniards are no longer afraid of losing their jobs. Next to that news was another from a child from Carabanchel, Nacho, who suffered because his family had no income, and said: My mother is unemployed and I don't know what to do to help her. This is the reality that your Government, which you do not want to see. Today there are 650,000 less occupied and 140,000 more unemployed than when Rajoy arrived in the government. The average contract duration last year has been less than two months and 25% of all contracts have not reached even one week. One in two workers in our country earns 970 euros and one in three only reaches 648. I told you a week ago and today I ask you again: Minister, could you live with 648 euros a month? Answer this question. Salaries have fallen substantially, Spanish workers only charge less than those in Portugal, Poland and Greece, and all international bodies are telling them to change their wage policy. However, you're not doing it. That's why I had the hope that this year they were going to raise the minimum wage decently, but they haven't. In four years, in one legislature, only 7 euros have risen, an absolutely indecent rise. I remind you that a socialist government raised it 181 euros. Understand, Minister, with lower wages there is no consumption and no economic revival. I'll explain to you what your job reform is doing. Its labor reform is causing situations such as that of that restaurant that for twelve hours serving tables pays 500 euros, or that hotel in Calviá of four stars where more than one third of the staff are interns, or that bakery in Jerez where you work from Monday to Sunday nine hours, without holidays, for 500 euros and where besides the bread that is not sold is discounted from the salary. This is the barbarity of your labor reform. Minister, the other day, on a visit to a business in Marbella someone told me that their labor reform is not only punishing and undermining workers' rights, but, worse still, offending their dignity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u105	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Heredia, the salary of the workers we are primarily concerned about is that of the 3.5 million you sent to unemployment when you ruled the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] That's the first one that worries us, because to raise wages the first thing to do is have a job. Jobs were created in Spain for the first time in 2014, after seven very hard years of economic crisis, by the way, governed by the majority by the Socialist Party. 1,600 jobs were created every day. Do you know what happened when the People's Party came to the government? That 1,400 jobs were destroyed every day. Therefore, we have much to do, no doubt, but today we are a little better. Mr. Heredia, do you know what benefits the workers? That inflation, which is the most negative tax, is controlled and moderate in this country, and that is achieved by economic reforms, as this People's Party government has done. Because the average wage increase in 2014 agreed in a collective agreement was 0.57%, but as inflation was negative they gained purchasing power. Do you know what happened in 2011, ruling the Socialist Party? That wages rose by 1.6 but inflation was above 3% and all workers lost, Mr Heredia. They lost the pensioners with a socialist government that froze their pensions for the first time in the democratic history of Spain. The Popular Party has arrived and pensions always rise in Spain, pensioners have earned more than 2 billion euros in 2013 and 2014. Heredia, do not give employment lessons or pay increases because your prescriptions are economic and social ruin. Ours: less unemployment, more employment, less taxes and more pensions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE REJECTION BY THE SUPREME TRIBUNAL OF THE MAJORITY OF COLLECTIVE LEAVES ACHIEVED IN THE FIELD OF THE WORK REFORM ON WHICH HE HAS HAD THE PROPOSAL TO PRONUCEED? [[File number 180/001180]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u108	Question also to the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mr Rafael Simancas, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u109	Madam Minister, with this release to which you are accustomed, you recently told the workers of this country that they should be happy about the outcome of their employment policies, the chairman of my group reminded you a few minutes ago. I would like to ask you personally why, why do you understand, Mrs Báñez, that workers in this country have to be satisfied, happy and happy with the outcome of their employment policies, for example, in relation to EREs. Do you really believe that the sufferers of the Coca-Cola ERE are happy these days after they have been fired from their jobs, or the sufferers of the Telemadrid ERE, or those of the Estepona City Council, or those of the Jerez City Council, or the dozens and dozens of collective layoffs that have taken place under their labour reform? Do you think they're happy? Do you know why these people are on the street, Minister? Because of their fault, before their labour reform there were no collective redundancies allowed in this country in companies with profits or in public administrations. Coca-Cola pulled the ERE trigger, but you loaded the gun. The Estepona City Council has pulled the ERE trigger, but you have loaded the gun. Do you really think that workers who have been fired in this country should feel happy? More than half of the appeals filed with the National Court and the Supreme Court by the EREs in the past year have ended in the annulment. The courts protect the rights of workers that you leave out of the weather. Paraphrasing Mr. Rajoy, the Supreme's ruling on ultraactivity will say what we will read tomorrow in the Supreme's ruling on ultraactivity, but you know what that ruling says and you know that it is the largest varapalo ever received by a minister of employment in this country. I tell you with sincerity: before that warp, I would have resigned, out of shame, minister. Now you can answer me as usual, with Zapatero, with González, with Indalecio Prieto or with anyone else, forgetting about the workers. Or you can have a start of dignity, ask for forgiveness from those thousands of workers unjustly fired for their labor reform, work to get their jobs back and repeal the labor reform that is bringing so much misfortune to this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u110	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Simancas, first of all, before I ask a question in this Parliament where the representatives of all the Spaniards are, is to have a little rigor, and I will answer you rigorously, even if you do not ask rigorously. [[A Member of Parliament: We're here!]] I respect judicial decisions because we respect the division of powers that establishes our democracy. Secondly, when you come here to ask questions read a little, even if it is only the press releases of the General Council of the Judiciary, but give real data and data with rigor. I'm giving them to you this morning, since you don't do your job with that rigor. Between March 2012 and September 2014, 11,542 collective redundancies took place in this country, of which, Mr Simancas, 84% were agreed by the parties. Only 58 out of over 11,500 arrived at the Supreme Court, 0.5%. Of these, 16 were declared void and 9 were not legally adjusted. Mr Simancas, we have made it clear that with the labour reform we wanted the dismissal in this country to be the last resort, and it is being the last resort; every year on the previous one, collective redundancies are reduced by 50%. But it is not true that labour reform is being torpedoed in the courts. I'm glad the courts put those who don't comply with the law in their place. Why don't you do it? Maybe because it's part of that fraud and injustice against the workers. And you know why? Because your party, where you rule as an employer, doesn't do that. The PSOE in Andalusia has had to be rectified in the Supreme Court. You know why? They have declared void the collective dismissal decided by the Andalusian Board on local employment promotion agents. Do you know what the Supreme says? We reject it because it has been a fraudulent situation on the part of the Andalusian Administration with the sole objective of avoiding compliance with the regulations on integration into the Andalusian Employment Service. [[Rumors]] If you want to fight collective redundancies and favor workers, talk first with your party in Andalusia. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF MR CARMEN MONTON GIMENEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to prevent the establishment of a confiscator's camp for persons who need access to the provisions of the law of deprivation, as is the case in the Valencian Community? [[File number 180/001181]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u113	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Carmen Montón of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, before being president, Rajoy assured that he would not touch the addiction. Then the cuts, the copayments, the rest, the removal of the Social Security to the caregivers and the change of the valuation to restrict the access or expulsion of the system have arrived. In Spain the PP is dismantling the system of dependence, but in the Valencian Community it has been barleyed. Minister, the Valencians and the Valencians want to know whether they will consent to the establishment in the Valencian Community of a confiscatory co-payment preventing access to the benefits of the Unit Law. We want to know if you agree with that extra co-payment that Fabra has approved in the Accompaniment of Budgets Act, if you are going to consent that Fabra assumes competences that are not her own, in order, as Cermi says, to engage even more the Valencian dependents in poverty and social exclusion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u115	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I believe that the Unit Act, as it was established on the day it was adopted and as provided for in the economic memory and schedule of deployment, is being reasonably implemented. It has to complete its implementation definitely throughout the 2015 exercise and that's what is going to happen and, as you know, on July 1 we will incorporate grade I and moderate dependents, which are approximately 315,000 people in Spain. Therefore, we will have completed the deployment of this law in due course. It will also be time to make an assessment of exactly how it has worked in all its aspects, also naturally in the funding model provided for by the law and the funding model provided for by the law is a mixed model in which, as set out in the Unit Act, there must be input from users. The agreement of the Territorial Council of the Unit among all the Autonomous Communities established the basic guarantees of the participation of the beneficiaries in the financing. He established three guarantees. First guarantee: no one should be left out of benefits or care for economic reasons. Second guarantee, a limit below: those who do not reach income equivalent to Iprem will pay nothing. Third guarantee, one limit above: the others will pay according to their economic capacity - which is what the law provided for and what you approved - but with a ceiling of 90% of the cost of the service. This is the system and, therefore, this is what all the autonomous communities in Spain are obliged to do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Monton.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u118	Minister, tell me what I'm telling you. You can say many things, but you must guarantee equality. It has had to be the Superior Court of the Valencian Community that declares the nullity of the co-payment established in the Decree of August 2013 which, for example, obliges to pay up to 90% of the pension. And not yet. Skipping the sentence, President Fabra insists and pastes this new co-op into the Law of accompaniment of the budgets of the Generalitat. What are you going to do? In Andalusia, with the excuse of defending supposed competences, the PP has paralysed in the Constitutional Court the auction of medicines, which certainly benefits citizens. In the Valencian Community, governed by the PP, are you going to be an accomplice to the breakdown of the lives of dependent people? Socialists are going to exhaust all avenues in defense of a life worthy of people with dependence. If necessary, we will reach the Constitutional Court. What are you going to do? Which side are you going to put it on? Are you going to defend the Valencians and the Valencians or are you going to defend your party? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Monton. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Montón, to speak with rigour it is necessary to explain to the citizens what has happened in the Valencian Community. In the Valencian Community there has been a judgment of the High Court of Justice that annulled a decision of the Government of that community because it considered that what it was establishing as a public price was a fee and therefore had a reserve of law. That is the question of how it has forced the Government of that community to regulate it properly by adopting a legal standard of that rank. That's what happened and it happened to you too. When you approved in the Territorial Council of Unit the criteria of co-sponsorship that you, the Socialist Party, had established in law, were also annulled by the courts in 2008. They cancelled that agreement and we had to make the agreement ourselves in 2012; the agreement that is in force, that has not been annulled and that is the one that establishes the guarantees. The Ministry will therefore review whether these guarantees are met in all Autonomous Communities. What happens in Valencia... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u121	Thank you, Minister. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARTÍNEZ OLMOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES YOU THINK TO ENSURE THE FINANCING OF THE NATIONAL HEPATITIS PLAN C THAT THE SOCIALIST GROUP CALLED YOU TO HAVE EQUAL ACCESS TO NEW THEAPIES WITHOUT DISCRIMINATION? [[File number 180/001182]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u122	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality by Mr José Martínez Olmos of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you intend to secure the funding of the National Hepatitis C Plan required by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to ensure access to new therapies for all those who need it without any discrimination?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u124	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínez Olmos, absolutely. We will have to guarantee the financing of these drugs because that is the way we can ensure that they actually reach all those who need them, according to the criteria that are set out in the strategic plan from a scientific and clinical point of view. Right now, as you know, there are approved therapeutic positioning reports and a guide that already establishes the prescription of these treatments and their indication to a certain number of patients. I want to tell you that at the moment this therapeutic guide, and therefore these IPTs and therefore the prescription of the patients for whom it is already indicated, have right now guaranteed funding in the system.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u126	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Martínez Olmos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on this subject there has unfortunately been an unjustified delay in your Government's action by assuming a claim and a proposal which, from the point of view of the constructive opposition, has been making my parliamentary group for a long time. The proposal was to make a national plan that with scientific criteria, taking into account the contributions of professional organizations, patient organizations and autonomous communities, would ensure that all those who need new therapies by medical decision could have them with adequate funding. This delay has no justification and has been the result of inadequate action by his Government when it was working with the laboratory that produces any of these products and has, in my view, been weak in achieving an excessive price. Now, with the implementation of this plan it is important that you make the necessary force to get a better price for these products and that the funding to which you are already beginning to commit - and I thank you for that - is guaranteed at the lowest possible cost for all public budgets. But, look, I want a formal, powerful commitment that the autonomous communities are not going to have any problems in order to be able to cope with these decisions that the Government has to make. Just as at the time there was specific funding for AIDS or growth hormone, there is a chance that the autonomous communities will be guaranteed this funding. In this respect, I propose to you some avenues for that cohesion fund that we are proposing. For example, make an auction of medicines like in Andalusia so that, in the face of pharmaceutical industries that are not innovative, we can obtain the savings that will finance this plan. Also, if possible and willing, take part in the income of health VAT and dedicate it to this purpose, because patients can no longer wait. I am glad that you are already beginning to rectify this issue, where unfortunately the Government has been insensitive and has unnecessarily caused harm to the health of patients. Let us move forward firmly and make it possible for patients to have all the guarantees in our health care system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u128	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Olmos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez Olmos, when I said that there is now financial capacity to prescribe drugs according to the current therapeutic guide - therefore the communities should do - I did not explain to you how you get that funding. The funding is obtained because better prices are obtained for the centralised purchase of medicines, which is why I think it would be very helpful if the Community of Andalusia were also to join that centralised purchase and move away from the solitary system that is being followed lately. I think it would be better if we all went together. We are also talking and negotiating with other European countries to try to buy medicines together. It would be even better for all the Spaniards to buy together, as we would get better prices. There are generic incorporations, patents that are winning throughout this year, and that leaves room for us to incorporate innovations. That is the challenge, incorporating innovations into the system and properly managing the purchase of medicines so that there is room for incorporating those innovations, and that is what is being achieved. From there, you ask us to establish a specific fund, and I tell you that that is a fund with names and surnames and that it does not seem to me the best negotiation strategy to approve now a fund whose recipient is known and surely is waiting for it, is not the line that will follow the ministry right now. We are working on the negotiation by establishing, first, contact with other European countries - it has been done in the case of Ebola, where protective equipment is purchased centrally within the framework of the European Union - and, second, by negotiating through formulas of expenditure ceiling, shared risk or price per volume. Through that negotiation and through that I believe that we can ensure that our system has the capacity - if properly managed - to incorporate innovations, this one and those that will come in the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u130	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u131	We will continue the agenda with opinions from committees on legislative initiatives. Both legislative initiatives are an organic law; therefore, in accordance with Rule 131.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure, it is announced that no vote will be taken before two o'clock in the afternoon. First, the opinion on the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. They begin, first, the interventions of the Joint Group, which have a certain breadth when debates are important, as in this case. First of all, Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of a very important law, certainly one of the most important in this legislature, so my first thought and my first wish would be to hope that in the end this rule could be adopted with the greatest possible agreement and support. The Criminal Code regulates freedom and security in the exercise of the most important rights of our society - life, private property, the foundations of order and our coexistence - which has been called, and is reflected in the explanatory statement, the negative Constitution of our country. It is a law that must make compatible a principle of minimal intervention with the function of safeguarding the values and rights of an increasingly complex society. It is a law that must maintain the balance between ensuring the security of everyone and respecting the constitutional freedoms of everyone. It is a law that must punish in a dissuasive but also fair and proportionate manner, the crime and, in turn, must allow the resocialization of the offender. It is a law that must respond effectively to the changes we observe and suffer in nature and to the new forms of crime that, whether we like it or not, are technologicalized, specified, specialized and, unfortunately, find new ways to circumvent the law or to take advantage of its loopholes or outdated solutions. I think we are all aware of this and the proof is the more than eight hundred amendments tabled by almost all groups. The Navarro People's Union has participated modestly with six amendments. We asked in all of them the same thing, they justified themselves in the same thing. They all called for the inclusion of special disqualification for those who commit particularly serious crimes, aimed at sexual freedom and compensation, crimes of xenophobia, racism, those that have been framed as hate crimes, crimes of genocide and also crimes of terrorism. We believed that there was a need to regulate a qualified protection of minors from the possibility that perpetrators of such serious and repugnant crimes could be disposed to exert some kind of influence on the training or educational development of our young people, and especially of minors. The majority group and other groups voted in favour of our proposals to include this disqualification for certain crimes, such as those that violate freedom and sexual compensation, xenophobia, racism, and I am grateful for that. We hope, as I have had the opportunity today to ask the Minister of the Interior, that the special disqualification for these serious terrorist convictions will be included in the future agreement on terrorism. It is for this reason that, in that confidence, we gave up Amendment No 101, which sought to amend the Criminal Code. As I also announce, Mr President, that I will withdraw, because they have been decontextualized, Amendments 99 and 100 from this group, which were still alive for their vote today. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Given the technical complexity of this text, I would like to conclude by thanking the work of the Commission's legal services, their patience and their great professionalism. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Group too, Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Criminal Code has traditionally been an instrument in the service of demagogy, frequently used by bipartisanism from opportunism and hypocrisy. We are tired of seeing how it is modified to a television strike and from viscerality, moving away from the rationality that is presumed to be the legislators. In the present case, the People's Party has taken one step further and decided to maintain the pseudo-impunity of political corruption and to launch a speech from the past, anti-disturbing, anti-freedom of expression, anti-democratic, surely in order to content its most rancid voters. This law symbolizes a serious step backwards in democracy. What have they decided to do with people's indignation? Criminalize her, pursue her. This Penal Code is a reflection of what the People's Party is: legislators with serious problems in understanding democracy. A law made for an electoral process that will last little, given the serious problems and injustices that it will provoke. The hardening of the channels of protest and the exercise of freedom of expression, expressions peculiar to the social conflict we are experiencing, is a good proof of this. Experts call it widespread criminalization of the social conflict, that is, the alleged corrupts who support those who rule, and those who dare to protest, to jail. He returns to the prison system, abandoning reintegration and resocialization. Life imprisonment is incorporated with euphemisms, people are legislated again, and this criminal code passed alone is a good proof of their fears and priorities. A proof that for you the criminal justice system is a mechanism of repression of dissent and poverty and not of social cohesion and coexistence. To fill prisons in an absurd and disproportionate way, while those who have sunk this country live quietly and unpunished, is to legislate for their own. Your anti-corruption lukewarmness will pass you a bill. Legislating against people, against society, will pass you bill. Deceiving people over and over again will pass them a bill. This criminal reform is an absolute nonsense in a democratic state. The best thing they could do is to withdraw it before generating more chaos, outrage and repudiation at its evident lack of democratic sentiment and lack of respect for freedom of expression, assembly and protest. For the coexistence, for democracy, for that Constitution which you invoke so much when you are interested and so much abused when you want, for the society to which this House as a whole represents you should withdraw this proposal for reform which you alone defend and which does not conform to the democracy in which the majority of citizens want to live. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today a reform of the Criminal Code will be adopted, which from all areas - political, social or judicial - is considered to be a serious setback in justice and freedoms, in line with the recently adopted Citizens' Security Act. The amendments of the Galego Nationalist Block that we are defending today are in line to prevent such atrocity. That justifies the deletion of more than twelve of our amendments from the various articles of this draft, trying to prevent the restoration of inhumane sentences such as imprisonment, in addition to a wide margin of discretion, which is clearly incompatible with the resocializing purpose of the sentences. Restrictions on access to prison benefits when conduct shows that resocialization is evolving favorably is another matter of concern to us. With our amendments we try not to incorporate this injustice into the text. In our amendment 604, we try to avoid discretion in extending security measures. In the same vein goes our next amendment, 605, which deletes Article 101(2), because we consider it unjustifiable that the suspension of the sentence of deprivation of liberty before security measures should be partially complied with, since this is intended to ensure that persons in need of specialized treatment and detention, before being subjected to them, are held in prisons with other common prisoners without receiving specific treatment. As we have said, this Government is continuing the repressive line of the 'gag law' in which people who participate in social or trade union mobilizations are penalized excessively. The minister himself has recently said something about this. That is why we again insist on our amendment 614 to add the repeal of Article 315(3) to the single derogating provision, since its conception comes from a time of restriction of rights and freedoms. Our amendment 615, in this case of addition, seeks to restore the right to pursue crimes of genocide and against humanity. Our proposal seeks to restore the right to obtain justice within the Spanish State by victims and relatives of serious crimes committed, for example, by the Franco dictatorship. Minister, we take this opportunity to state that our group's criticism of this reform is not only about criminal punishment, but also about the fact that the government has prevented a calm reflection to deepen its penal regulation which, instead of respecting its primary purpose, which should be to prevent crime, is shown to be unsuccessful in the light of statistics on the evolution of crime. With this reform, this Government affects errors, increasing criminal punishment and not deepening the primary purpose of resocialization of penalties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of our amendments, some of them from other parliamentary groups, and we are going to vote against the government bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Tardà also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, je suis Charlie says the President of the Government, je suis Charlie says the Minister of Justice Catalá, but only je suis Charlie from the Pyrenees to the north, from the Pyrenees to the south je no suis pas Charlie, and if you don't remember the famous cover of Thursday and what happened to these creators. [[Show cover]] Why? Because this Criminal Code continues to penalize the insults to the Crown and Spain, as well as the burning of flags. So are we for freedom of expression or are we not for freedom of expression? What are we left with? Only when we are entitled to freedom of expression for us, for them, for whom? Moreover, this Penal Code does not deal with equality between believers and non-believers, because atheists have to have a condition other than that of believers and the crime of blasphemy continues to be maintained. A penal code of right, but not of rights, because even in the republican amendments that sought to decriminalize abortion and euthanasia we have not had any support, at least from the two major parties, and we are also given the life imprisonment, the suppression of faults, which will result in the existence of a large number of people who are likely to enter prison, and because it also puts in check the freedom of assembly and demonstration. New crimes, new penalties against demonstrators are created and even peaceful resistance is punished, such as a sitting in a bank agency, which is a measure directed directly by the popular response of those affected by mortgages. In short, it is a reform in accordance with the different actions of the People's Party, which puts in check the separation of powers, which has also legislated through the 'law bite' and through the next Criminal Prosecution Act so that society can be controlled according to the repressive needs resulting from the dismantling of the rule of law. It is true that we have agreed with the People's Party, and it must be recognized that we would not be honoured if we did not do so, we have agreed, we have agreed, we have negotiated a series of amendments that allow for the first time, we must also say, that the Spanish State should approve the rest of the penal codes in all that pertains to animal rights, and thus the punishment of zoophilia and animal abandonment has been introduced for the first time in the Criminal Code, but they have not dared, for example, with the bull of Vega. Attention, therefore, to Amendment No 363, which we are keeping alive. In short, justice is not the same for all. The Penal Code, I repeat, is right, while the prison is for the poor: Barcenes and Matas already leave, Botín did not enter, the infant does not enter, Urdangarín has not yet entered and the terrorists Vera and Barrionuevo were two days in prison. This is the summary for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u139	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. I now give the floor, for the Joint Group, to Mr Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, this criminal reform along with the 'law bites' is from our point of view what is the second face of the global counter-reform that the PP government is practicing in this legislature; in the first we saw the socio-economic face, we could say - labour reform, pension reform, cuts in education, health, benefits, etc. - and now comes the cuts in democratic freedoms, human rights, in short. When I studied criminal law there in Franco's time, we were told that the fundamental thing in settling this branch of law was the definition of the protected legal good, it was the right to life, the right to liberty, it was physical integrity, even property, the crime was defined as that which attacked these legal goods and the offender logically as the person who carried out those crimes. But here everything goes backwards, the cart ahead of the oxen: first it is said who is the criminal, then it is made to measure the crime, and the criminal because he is the political enemy, he is the social enemy, he is the civil disobedient, he is the protester, the Andalusian newspaperman, those who go out on the street to avoid mortgages. Here's what's there. With this reform, moreover, the prison doors, the entry doors, are going to be much bigger, there are going to be more crimes, they are going to be punished in a tougher way, while the exit doors are going to be quite smaller, the paroles are going to be less and when they happen, the probation will proliferate. It's the enemy's criminal law. But of course there is always a criminal right of the enemy there is a criminal right of the friend, there cannot be one without another. And so in the face of the Parot doctrine, which punishes double penalties and imposes double penalties, is the Botín doctrine, which allows defrauders and tax criminals of all kinds to camp on the street and be received in all the royal lunches as great men of the homeland. Minister, in the criminal law of the friend and the enemy, those sentenced, for example, by the penalties of the LAG to several hundred years in prison, without fulfilling the tenth part of the penalties, live quietly on the streets and bathe on the beaches, while Arnaldo Otegi, for example, Minister, is required to carry out the full penalty. You make legal architectures to draw lots, to jump over the guidelines of the European Union and impose double penalties on Basque and Basque prisoners. Minister, with his criminal right of the friend and the enemy, accused of crimes against humanity, for genocide, such as Billy El Niño, such as Utrera Molina, such as Martín Villa, with the satisfaction of his judiciary are also quietly walking the streets, while that same National Audience is today judging 35 people leaders of the Abertzale left who have only been political throughout their life. Minister, just last week honorable judges of your National High Court, well-deserved civil guards in a police action of their own pickle picks have appropriated 90,000 euros collected selling stickers in a legal demonstration called by a legal organization. That's your enemy's right. In the criminal law of the enemy, minister, to carry photographs of prisoners and prisoners of ETA for their relatives, for their friends, and to tell them without further ado that they are loved because they are family and friends, it is a crime, and it is not so that the butcher of Vitoria honorably presides over his party and that he has busts in the Senate and paintings in this Congress. In Euskal Herria the criminal doctrine of the enemy unfortunately has been settled for several decades now. It is in force under what is the Garzonian doctrine of: everything is ETA. And thanks to this there are already several hundred people belonging to the media, political parties, youth organizations and trade unions who have been persecuted, arrested, tortured in many cases, tried and convicted. This is your enemy's criminal right. Taking one more step you have done last week what you didn't even do in the worst times Francisco Franco, that dictator, which is to attack the right to defense and arrest dozens of Basque lawyers; what he didn't do even Franco in his time. And this state of emergency that exists in Euskal Herria with regard to an important section of the population is the one that is now intended to extend to the rest of the state and of this Alfon knows much about the Vallecas and of this they know a lot - you see - seventeen Andalusian workers of Jodar, Jaén, for whom the prosecutor has made requests of up to five years in prison, in total more than one hundred years in prison. Why? For locking himself up in a town hall, for taking a seat in the village, for trying to get into the city hall. One hundred years in prison: the social doctrine of the enemy to combat all the social and political response that is being given to its policy. I'm done, Mr. President. Minister, the last one, there goes the farewell. You are trying to blow up the peace process in Euskal Herria by all means. They don't know how to do it. They're not going to get it because besides, their repressive performance is gross, it's zafia, it's sloppy. You're seen coming from afar and people keep quiet. They're not gonna break it. There are two very important reasons why I say this to you, because you will never be able to end two things: the desire for freedom of our people and the dignity of our people. That mix is explosive and you're not going to go over those two things.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u141	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you will recall that the only recommendation I made to you when you first appeared in this House after being appointed was that you did not reactivate this Penal Code, first because it is really curious the processing that has been followed. [[The lady]] A year ago the amendments were discussed in their entirety, the rule was practically amortized and left in a state of latency that made us all presume that it was not going to continue its processing, and you came up with a very ambitious codification, normative project, and announced that it was going to be approved only somewhere. In some way you deceived us, Minister, you promised us that the parties that could be the subject of consensus by the parliamentary groups would be approved. In the end we're approving everything. This is not a reform, Madam President, of the 1995 Penal Code, that is a full, full Penal Code, and you see the scenery that accompanies us for which it is called the most relevant rule of the legal system after the Constitution, the negative of the Constitution. You see. But it's all been that way, it's been paranormal processing, a phenomenon to study for parapsychology schools, I assure you. In disorderly sessions of presentation, amendments appeared, amendments disappeared, precepts appeared, precepts disappeared, whole chapters were coming in, coming out; the transactions made were given to us by whom or by whom one minute before they had to intervene, without material time to be able to analyze what was being presented and what kind of transactions were being advocated; nor is it well known who advocated them, who endorsed them from the government, if you were, if you were other people, if you were the deputies... Mr Castillo, who must also be thanked for his willingness to dialogue, must be acknowledged; just like the lawyers, who had to do a job more than lawyers, documentaries, for which I too would like to congratulate them: for their dual status as good lawyers and good documentaries, because it is metaphysically impossible to handle so much documentation and of course it is impossible to read it. I do not know what we are approving, Minister. I have many doubts that, like any other rapporteur who will speak, we know very well what we are approving. What are we approving? For perhaps what some media are saying: that you are sliding to the right for electoral reasons. Because this is a penal code whose ontological basis is conservative; it is very conservative. Look, a well-known U.S. Supreme Court judge, Judge Thomas, was saying about an approved federal law that he didn't know if it was good or bad - I think I know this is bad, I'm going to tell you honestly, the truth - but what he did know was that it was going to significantly damage the American people's confidence in their justice system. This rule will significantly undermine the confidence of the citizens of the Spanish State in their justice system because the judges will have to apply it; they will have to apply it approved as it has been approved, through waves of transactions, of disappearances of entire texts, chapters and even entire titles that are not known to what they were obeyed but to possible subsequent transactions that have not been made later, I do not know if they are to be made in the Senate, if they are not to do so: at the entrance of jihadist terrorism, the exit of jihadist terrorism... Look, this is something that cuts across juggling rather than the drafting of a legal text of this relevance - or of this purported relevance - which you see already: here we are a few Members, some certainly by vocation and because they have an interest in the matter and others... for whatever reason they do not want to leave the Chamber, something that could be recommended to them for what needs to be heard. As for the contents, if everything is conservative! Everything is conservative in terms of content and Mr. Cuadra has made a reflection paraphrasing Jakobs: that we are faced with a configuration of what is critically called by Jakobs, a great German criminalist and criminalist, 'the criminal right of the enemy'. Yes, something like that: life imprisonment is incorporated for the first time into our legal system. Life imprisonment, yes, what he didn't want... Life imprisonment is constitutionalized in some European countries, Minister, as you know, and it is reviewable, it is reviewable in all. But it is also necessary to connect - or co-honest - the life sentence, constitutionalized in other countries, with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, which states that an effective deprivation of liberty of a person over twenty years would cause depersonalization of such a nature as to contravene article 7, article 13 and the various precepts of this European Convention on Human Rights glossed over the jurisprudence of that Court. Moreover, it violates the Spanish Constitution in at least three precepts, Minister: article 10 in relation to the dignity of the person; article 15 in relation to the prohibition of cruel, degrading and disproportionate or excessive penalties; and article 25, which establishes the ontological basis of penalties, which is the resocialization of offenders. With life imprisonment it is impossible to resocialize. It may not become perpetual through revision systems, rather deleterious and vague, like everything else, because everything is vague and everything is deleterious and everything is imbued with meta-legal concepts in this norm. But, well, it can be: also life imprisonment, contradicting the will of the constituent legislator. It's hardening. The connection of crimes is hardened through a system of connection that prevents recasting by introducing a sort of new Parot doctrine as it is already extended, through that system that prevents the recasting of sentences through the mechanisms of connection, the time of deprivation of liberty is extended, the prison is chosen under other systems of redemption or rehabilitation of persons who commit crimes. The Organic Law of the Judiciary and its article 72 in relation to the individualization of the progression of the convicted, of the convicted, of all are violated, because this exception does not apply to those who have committed terrorist offences, even though you are recovering - I think it is petty what you have told my spokesman, Mr Esteban - this dialectic of good and bad, of which some - you have insinuated - are or are closer to those who have committed crimes than to the victims. Look, don't play this, please, with us. You know that we have been with the victims; we have victims in our organization and we do not endorse - we think aberrant - the actions of the terrorist organization ETA; but we are in a process of trying to normalize our country which, suddenly, for reasons that we are missing - euphemism that has also used my spokesman, Mr Esteban - seems that your Government is not interested in facilitating. Framework decisions for the year 2008. You invoke the decision of the Supreme Court - not the first, because you requested the report from the Supreme Court and 23 judges objected and said that the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court is not to report - regarding the resolution of an appeal from some of the decisions of the National Court. Non-generally applicable criteria were established. - Read it very well. Framework decisions are Community law and Community law takes precedence and has a hierarchical rank higher than Spanish law in this area, even if it is a right of an organic and public nature such as the Criminal Code. With regard to recasting or reciprocity in the case of penalties, you have to consider what all the countries of the Union consider: that for the purposes of calculating what you cannot do is to stop considering the time spent abroad or to revoke, unless you seek to violate the sovereignty of the judiciary of another State of the Union, judicial decisions issued by that other State of the Union. This can be said by the supreme or not by the Supreme, by the way with majorities corresponding to those qualified as conservative judges and progressive magistrates. Occasionally, for the last two places progressive judges were appointed because, if not, I can assure you that the relationship between those who voted in favour of that resolution - which you are interested in, has practically escaped before in the answer to Mr Esteban's question -, between what you are interested in interpreting these framework decisions and what the framework decisions establish, could have been different if the ones appointed for the last two vacancies that have been filled by the General Council of the Judiciary had not been progressive. The release from prison from the age of seventy is hardened, the release for the seriously ill is hardened, and it is done at the time of the death of former prisoner Bolinaga, when at the time he doubted until the existence of the illness of this prisoner and there was a great media accompaniment against his release, a brutal pressure against the Government - the existence of the disease was denied and, a year later, last week, he died - by contradicting the provision of article 15, in relation to the excessive penalties, cruel penalties, and article 10 with regard to the dignity of the people. By the way, I did not hear media campaigns of this dimension regarding other releases by this same procedure regarding a former General of the Civil Guard. With regard to security measures, that is all we can welcome: they have disappeared. But they have done so because they impose it on you, as planned, linked to a hardly measurable concept such as danger, two judgments of the Constitutional Court you know: 61/1998 and 36/1991. As for the worsening of the system of criminal record cancellation - up to twenty-five years in the Central Registry of Penalties - he does not realize, Minister, that the long-lasting existence of criminal record is an objective obstacle in our society for the social reintegration of offenders, and that criminal record is an obstacle, among other things, to finding work and recovering a conventionally normalized life. The regulation of hate crimes worsens with regard to preventive regulation: those carried out on racial, anti-Semitic, ideology, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, etc. Why does it not analyse and compare it with that provided for in the first section of Title XI of the current Criminal Code? You will see which regulation of the two is better, more appropriate, more weighted and more proportional. Unlawful associations and such deleterious regulation, so vague that they are made where their connection - it has already been warned by the United Nations rapporteur for human rights - with the right of association is confusing, will cause many problems of legal insecurity and above all much judicial arbitrariness. The legislator of the Criminal Code should try to avoid judicial arbitrariness to the extent possible. As for group action, and particularly in its dimension in the exercise of the right to strike, this asymmetry between the penalty imposed or which can be imposed on the employer who impedes the exercise of this fundamental right and pickets or pickets - I understand that many times they comment absolutely reprehensible behavior - is called euphemistically information pickets. Sometimes this information is based on the aphorism that the letter with blood enters, but the asymmetry as long as the actions of the pickets are - by virtue of three rulings of the Constitutional Court - received or incardinated in the exercise of a fundamental right, such as the exercise of the right to strike, cannot provoke a greater criminal charge than that provided for the employer who impedes the right to strike. The new regulation of criminal organization is absolutely contrary to the 2008 Framework Decision of 1984. In the crimes of terrorism everything is hardened, Minister. You have turned terrorism into a kind of mantra and I do not know whether to pay attention to those who are making statements, which link these positions to purely electoral positions. It has sometimes been done, and one has the feeling or intuition that electoralism is still being played. Terrorism cannot be regulated by harsher penalties, as terrorists who commit murder serve 40 years of effective, real deprivation of liberty. It is also very difficult to incorporate greater penalties, such as life imprisonment, but it is also to regulate things that contradict even recommendations of the human rights rapporteur of 2008 and 2011, which I have already recriminated; to regulate what constitutes a real contradiction in terms, passive collaboration with terrorist organization - which none of his multiple rapporteurs in this debate has been able to explain to me, but I know that it contradicts the resolution of the United Nations Security Council 1566 of 2004-; the evanescent and vague regulation of concepts such as apologia, environment, exaltation, which enables the opening of summaries or judicial proceedings that end up with all the prisoners subsequently released creating great tensions in a country that seeks normalization - I assure you - through mechanisms that go in a vectorial sense against normalization, even if reconciliation is possible. Not only because of the regulation or use of these vague concepts such as environment, apologia, exaltation, participation, but above all because of the impossibility of the reintegration of offenders who have committed terrorist offences, in particular those who have been arrested for belonging to ETA, to whom they are absolutely prevented from any degree of redemption, improvement of prison status, release from prison, release from parole, even if they have renounced their membership of that organization, even though they criticize that organization, even if they ask for forgiveness from the victims and even if they carry out all the acts that the legal system has envisaged to believe that at some point we will have to stage how to lower the blindness of so many years of suffering with ETA terrorism. When the elections come, it seems that these decisions are diffused and changed by legislatively opportunistic positions, with the most bastard that can be achieved, which is the intention to capture votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u143	Mr. Olabarría, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u144	I'm done, Madam President. Why don't you now choose to end the one-precept anti-terrorist legislation? There is talk of anti-terrorist legislation and it is a single precept, it is article 509 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which allows for detention processes in police units of five days, exceeding the constitutional limit clearly and generating spaces of impunity where torture is possible. How many reports of United Nations human rights rapporteurs do you know requesting that this provision be repealed, section 509 of the Criminal Procedure Act, requiring videotaping of incommunicado people, the medical examiner's care for eight hours and the possibility of choosing not a lawyer of his own - as this provision imposes - but a lawyer call him trusted or professional? In the area of corruption, and with this I conclude, Madam President, I have not understood the view of your group and of your rapporteurs in the People's Party. We have been accepted by some amendments which increase criminal charges and others do not.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u145	Mr. Olabarría, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u146	I'm done. Minister, I would like to say to you that as far as the age for consent to sexual relations is concerned, they have raised it a lot because sixteen years in the current times, Minister, seems to be an excessive age for such consent to be considered non-free. We offered them fifteen years. There are many elements left for the debate that we could articulate from a perspective of a serious and restful debate, but as you are regulating the new Penal Code, but you are not interested in a good Penal Code - because this is not the Criminal Code of democracy, this is the penal code of the People's Party, it is only the penal code of the People's Party and you are playing what you are playing at - we are going to have to reproduce in the votes our almost systematic horizontal and cross-cutting criticism of the whole rule that we are debating at the moment - with this, Madam President - with this end.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as is often said in old Spanish, what does not begin badly ends. It is true that the processing of this Penal Code began a year and a half ago with his predecessor, Mr Ruiz-Gallardón, and it is true that in that debate of all, Mr Olabarria, just who has just preceded me now in the use of the word, already warned of an anomaly, something which he warned as unprecedented. He explained here that as regards the processing of a law as important for democracy, for the regulation of fundamental rights, as the Criminal Code - for the limitation, if it is wrong, of those fundamental rights - it was the first time that this debate was held in democracy without it occupying the full morning. That it was a debate that deserved enough time and that deserved to be devoted exclusively to addressing that issue. He quoted it as an extraordinary thing. I suppose he had pulled the hemerotheque and knew that it was exactly the first time that that had happened, and this might seem a little important or anecdotal, question of forms, but now we know, by how the other issues occurred, that it was not anecdotal or that it was a question of forms, but that what was anecdotal to you is the reform itself of the Criminal Code and not the way in which it was addressed, but the reform itself of the Criminal Code. What has happened since then until now - what doesn't begin well ends - proves it to us. In that debate on the reform of the Criminal Code, which was of amendments to the whole, my group did not put forward an amendment to the whole because we were convinced that the Criminal Code needed to be amended, and we had the unwarranted hope - it has been shown - that in the process we would be able to introduce - like the rest of the parliamentary groups - the improvements that we considered necessary and that all felt necessary. That we were not going to come to a debate in which we had to face a kind of revealed truth that came from the Government and, to which they automatically listened when they understood it, by the way, and when it was not a matter of permanent contradictions, the spokesmen of the People's Parliamentary Group. Before I enter into the criticisms, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate the spokesmen of the People's Group on the ungrateful task they have had in their presentation, particularly Mr Castillo, who has been the spokesman of the People's Group in all the tasks of presentation and of the Commission, because if the citizens had seen through a hole the conditions under which the spokesmen arrived at the debate, with lots of papers recently handed over by the Ministry of Justice, or others, contradictory to each other, without being able to give an explanation, without knowing whether we were dealing with a debate, an amendment, a compromise, an offer, if it was the last one at five and four, but it was changing at five and seventeen. That way in which you have led the group, at least those whom I have seen in the paper, to work and to address the debate on the Criminal Code demonstrates, better than nothing, the contempt with which you, the Government, have dealt with this reform. It didn't start, it didn't end. Before entering, I close with thanks for his difficulties, his talent, his style and how they have tried to resolve, to the extent of their possibilities, what was an affront to the parliamentary procedure exercised by the Government, which has acted as if this Parliament were his chiringuite, which has had the Penal Code in a drawer for a year and a half and has taken it out when the gentleman sitting there, Mr Rajoy, believed that he had to tell the public that he was going to take steps to regenerate democracy. Then they took the Penal Code out of the drawer and, to make a debate in a plenary and that he appeared as the superman of the defense of the regeneration of democracy, they made this panic and this affront to us. Returning to the beginning, as I was able to tell Mr Gallardón in that debate, which I have just recalled, a year and a half ago in this very rostrum, the Penal Code would require a revision, but not the revision that the People's Party has imposed on us, because what it has done - and in isolation - is disappointing from every point of view. Even I have more hope in you, in you - forgive me for putting it in you - even though after three years of government, especially in the Justice portfolio, it is easy to lose hope, more than anything for the practice and how the facts have been produced. Even I myself expected more; I hoped that by addressing such an important law you would not have another talent, but that you would give it the importance it has. He hoped that, once the President of the Government made his star appearance, they would get to work seriously. He had already been given the headline and the newscasts. He had already come out saying that he was the superman of the regeneration of democracy; then they could have put themselves to work, but it has not been so. Minister, I'm going to go to the content. Forgive me for talking to the minister, but we've seen that he's in charge of this. Even if it is the parliamentary group that is going to approve the Penal Code, why am I going to address you? Maybe we even agreed. I am going to address him, who is in charge; even if it is only by the delegation of the President of the Government in this matter, but he is in charge. Once the formal issues have been raised, I'm going to go a little deeper. It is true that the form has marked everything and, as is always said - moreover, it is true - in democracy the forms are the background. The forms have marked everything, but also the substance is important and leads us to reject this Penal Code. I begin with the elimination of Book III in which faults are typified. Far from a decriminalizing practice, as all the experts who appeared in this House have pointed out, about 60% of the offences become crimes and, the rest, administrative sanctions without judicial control. Inadequacies of recklessness, such as traffic offences, which pass into civil jurisdiction, also disappear, which will mean - as has already been said and will continue to be said, because much has been said in the Commission - payment of counsel, prosecutors, fees and experts. This is something that his Government likes very much, as there is a situation of unprotectiveness of the citizen similar to that carried out by the Law on Citizen Security adopted a few days ago. It is not that this is called Union, Progress and Democracy or this spokesman, but the Council of State. Specifically, the High Advisory Body noted that the elimination of misconduct entails a reform of the Spanish penal system and that the exclusion of certain conduct from the criminal sphere and its jurisdiction, by bringing it back to the civil or administrative path, implies a reduction of the special guarantees of the criminal process, which is enshrined in article 24 of the Constitution, and can generate a multiplier effect both of the resources mobilized by the State to provide a timely response on the administrative, administrative and civil routes, as well as of the corresponding costs. The economic side is important, especially for those who cannot bear it and have to seek justice. You can tell me that despite this appeal of possible unconstitutionality, the Council of State does not dare to say that in this respect it is an unconstitutional norm, but you know, Minister - although we sometimes abuse it, we say that it is unconstitutional, we close on that and you answer that it is constitutional - that the issue is that it is unfair and that it is a harassment of citizens' civil rights. Perhaps it fits the Constitution, although I believe it does not, as the Council of State says, but what no one discusses is the injustice that this measure will cause, and the lack of protection that in fact already brings to citizens who, by the way, need the protection of the State most. Another aspect of a tremendous social impact is the current penal regulation in Spain when introducing permanent reviewable prison. Mr Olabarría spoke about this in his speech; I will not insist too much, but you are aware that a measure of this nature has the social rejection, the rejection of the vast majority of experts who have appeared in the Commission, which has the rejection of the new State Attorney General, who was asked about it in the previous procedure and said that he did not see it, and that he has the rejection of all the groups in the House. It won't be so clear that we have to, will it? Has there not been any doubt to you that something that produces a rejection of these characteristics, so unanimous, diverse and so transversal, is something that has not been done well, that is not done well? Not only is the introduction critical, but the deadlines by which you introduce the review of the sentence, the absence of sufficiently accredited conditions. It is a dip, it is a setback, it is unnecessary to pursue crime, to punish criminals, even the most serious crimes. It was not necessary to do so, it is negative, it is serious, it produces rejection from every point of view. I don't know why they do it, except that they need a headline - which I believe is no longer even in this matter; but, well, I'm not going to get into it either, because it doesn't belong to me. That is another of the issues that merit criticism of the Criminal Code. As far as Book II is concerned, crimes and their penalties, from our point of view, are of particular relevance - I would like to stop here for a moment - the reform in relation to the age of consent for sexual intercourse. In Spain we are very given to act on a pendulum plan. So far we had the lowest age of consent in all of Europe - I don't know if there was anyone under the age of thirteen, I haven't found it -, and now we're gone - I'm not going to say to the highest because there's a country where it's seventeen years old -, to a higher than usual, sixteen years old, without any kind of explanation. When this issue was raised in the Gallardón reform, there was an important social debate in relation to a regrettable case of minor victims in Spain. This is a delicate matter, I understand it, it is not easy to narrow it down into fourteen, fifteen or sixteen without giving any kind of explanation, without making a sufficiently calm reflection, without introducing at the same time the age of consent a reflection or a reference to the maturity of the person with whom the relationship is maintained, to the equivalence of maturity. Are there in the same situation a 15- and seven-month-old girl who has sex with an eighteen-year-old boy as a 15- or 14-year-old girl who has sex with a forty-year-old man, who is supposed to be what was being thought and what society immediately reproves without stopping to reflect on it? No; there is a similar degree of maturity between men and women, between young people of different genders, but it must be considered when determining when it is a crime or not. Besides, there's a leap from fourteen to sixteen years. According to the Civil Code at the age of fourteen a girl may marry - with the authorization of the judge yes, but she may marry, of course having listened to the parents, but without the consent of the parents - and may emancipate, but not fully emancipate, as the colleagues of the People's Group told me when we talked about the matter: she can emancipate, but the law itself establishes for what, not for everything until she is of age. Turns out, now to have sex without it being a crime, it takes 16 years, but you can marry fourteen. How do we combine this, how do we fix it? Are they friends for two years to prevent a judge from denouncing them, or the father who didn't authorize it, because the judge has authorized it, and doesn't like the boy his daughter married to? However, some say: this has never happened, it is not going to happen; it is emancipated, it is protected, it is madness. It's never happened, ever, it's true, because we've never been in this situation. They may say that the reform is intended to raise the age of marriage from 14 to 16 years, but that is still in the reform. It is true that it has not happened, but the first complaint will end in a criminal court, and then the criterion will be established because today there is no jurisprudence. Is that weird? Yes, it will be rare to happen, but it will end up happening, because you have introduced without entrusting yourself to God or the devil a situation in this reform that raises a contradiction with a law that is in force and with a situation that occurs daily. Young people are beginning to have relations before, Minister, normally between young people of their age, and this is a problem for us.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u149	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u150	Madam President, yesterday the President told us that he was going to be tolerant and I am going to ask for some tolerance. It's true that he said, "As long as I am." But I hope you are, too. Two important issues of the Criminal Code which also deserve our vote against and which have to do with political corruption. You have admitted a reform in this respect, and we have made progress, which is doubtful, but we have not made substantial progress. What has the Criminal Code done, for example, with regard to the illegal financing of political parties? It has converted the administrative offences regulated in the Financing Act into offences when certain circumstances arise, such as exceeding the limits imposed considerably. This new regulation, turning an administrative offence into a criminal offence into certain cases, does not explicitly punish new conduct, but turns administrative reproach into criminal reproach. You'll tell me, that's enough. It is a step forward, as a result of an advance in 2011, when you accepted an amendment, also Mr Castillo, in which criminal liability was recognised at that time to legal persons. This is a consequence of that, and it is a breakthrough. It was an amendment by the Progressive Union and Democracy - we are taking it to the gala - which had the vote against the whole House, less the United Left, which has maintained that position. This is a consequence, but for us to understand those who hear us and do not know it: illicit enrichment is not regulated and, therefore, crucial issues such as the existence of B boxes or the assets in Spain or abroad are not criminal. For example, with this Penal Code, when it comes into force, Mr Bárcenas could remain a treasurer of the People's Party. It's a clear example. Have we made progress? Yes, insufficiently, generating an expectation and telling public opinion things that are not true, because public opinion if only sees the headlines believes that there has been a very substantial advance here. Yes, for the first time it will be a crime for political parties to finance themselves illegally, following what I spoke to them before the criminal responsibility of legal persons, but the new crimes, the big crimes, box B, for example, are not, do not appear. Just what administrative sanctions were become criminal charges. Is it important? Yeah. It's not enough. We stayed behind a lot. I have set the example of Mr Bárcenas. I could put more on, but I don't have time. That clearly shows what important things have been left out. One last reference - thank you very much, Madam President, for your benevolence - has to do with the issues of terrorism that have remained outside the Criminal Code, just for advancing the position of my parliamentary group. I would have liked it if, since it was going to be a reform of the Criminal Code, we had discussed it when we debated the Criminal Code and not through a proposed organic law that will reform the Criminal Code that we are adopting today. That's a doll and everyone knows it. Was it necessary to seek consensus and did not give time within the Commission? One more example is that the Commission and the presentation procedure have been a sham, because if we had had enough time, sufficient reflection, sufficient calm, we would have been able to do so where it touches, not in a separate organic law that will reform the organic law that we are adopting. That said, this parliamentary group has the utmost readiness to move forward with new criminal types that punish terrorism crimes, by the way, non-jihadist. There's no other assumption. It'll look like they've got a beret or a turban. It will be to penalize terrorism, any kind of terrorist crime. Whatever is a step forward, this parliamentary group is ready to speak with the parliamentary group, with the Government, with whom it has the last word.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u151	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u152	But let me tell you something, minister. If we introduce new criminal types in the area of terrorism, which at the same time entail a reform of the common definition of the crime of terrorism, which is a European norm - we can do that, our Criminal Code can do that - and if the law comes here without a special and specific budget that strengthens the fight against terrorism, it will not be worth it at all. What needs to be done is to prevent and prosecute and then punish. If we don't invest in intelligence, that is, in brains, to prevent - we invest economically to be able to invest in people -, if we don't invest in human resources, in police, in more staff, in civilian guards, in military to prosecute and arrest terrorists, it won't do any good either. That is, more brains and more vests; that is, more money. And if it's not, again, pure propaganda. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the UI Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u154	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the social state is dead, the criminal state is alive. That is what this counter-reform of the Criminal Code is all about. It is not, of course, the Penal Code of Democracy, it is not. They don't even dare say it, because it isn't. Nor is it the Anti-Corruption Penal Code, because it is not, because anti-corruption measures have been diluted in the processing and surely in the end will not know them or who proposed them. It is the Penal Code of Austerity, the Penal Code of Authority - as I said before, the social consensus is dead, it is necessary authority, it imposes austerity in this country, it imposes antisocial policies during the rest of the legislature - but above all it is a Penal Code of Party, it is the Penal Code of the People's Party in electoral campaign. What can the government party care about in the pre-election campaign? For, first, social peace, gag social protest - that is a strategy - and second, criminal populism. So much so that they talk about populism, more populist than this Penal Code there is nothing. The criminal populism of life imprisonment, not permanent reviewable prison, that there is nothing reviewable in that permanent prison. It's life imprisonment indeterminate, pure and hard, not anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as processing is concerned, it is a criminal tragedy, a shame for this House. That we initially had to wait a year for the processing, after a stoppage for unknown reasons, until the Law on Citizen Security that went after the Criminal Code before the Criminal Code, but then we had to reform the Criminal Code in express sessions, summarizing the presentation and the Commission, is really worthy of better cause, because the haste, ladies and gentlemen, the Tragalas bring the chapuza as a consequence, and this Penal Code, apart from a repressive, authoritarian Penal Code, is a monument to the chapuza. I'll tell you some, ladies and gentlemen. In relation to Book III, in the transposition of offences, a majority in crimes, we still do not have the procedure for judging those crimes; that is, we make a modification of Book III that repeals a very important part of the Criminal Code and we do not know how these crimes are to be judged. For more inri, we incorporate into the reform something that has nothing to do with the Penal Code, confiscation. Good thing it's been modified and it's not the mess anymore, it's the confiscation. It was the confiscation in Castilian terms, I don't know why the commission was being put on. Seizures have a different treatment in this Criminal Code and in the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. that we are making a reform of the Criminal Code in matters of confiscation that is inconsistent with the procedure and even with the assessment made by the General Council of the Judiciary on the Criminal Procedure Act in matters of confiscation. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a real dip. In this regard, I would like to commend the work of those who in the paper have had to swallow this procedure, and mainly of the lawyers, who have become the heroes of the Criminal Code, because they have had to exegesis text, talmudism in order to be able to know what the rapporteur really wanted to say about the reform of the Criminal Code. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, an electoral text, an authoritarian reform and, on the other hand, a true cod, a monument to cod and legal insecurity. The scholars, the university professors say of us, in particular with regard to the Penal Code, that we are always on patchwork, that what they do is increase legal uncertainty. For they have known nothing so far, they are now going to know what is really a reform of the Criminal Code that favors and that practically installs legal uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure undermines the reform of the Criminal Code. A summary procedure, an express procedure, a party reform of the Criminal Code is little less than illegitimate. The Penal Code is the negative of the Constitution. The constitutional reform processes, the constitutional bloc, must be widely supported and consensual processes, cannot be majority processes. The People's Party has decided that the reform of the Criminal Code is a majority process, that the Criminal Code is its own, that the Criminal Code is the Criminal Code of the Party. That is a fundamental contradiction, because what it points out is that this Penal Code will last very little. It can probably be used in the 2015 agonistic election campaign, but it's definitely a penal code that's not about to stay. Neither their reviewable permanent prison, nor their measures of criminalization of the protest, nor their prejudices with regard to poverty are to remain, but they correspond to a certain political moment and to a certain political party which has the months until the next general elections. It is therefore also a short-term penal code. But going to the content of the Penal Code, ladies and gentlemen, this Penal Code will try to be presented by the People's Party - because it is its Penal Code, it is the code of the party - as the Penal Code of life imprisonment, as the Criminal Code of permanent prison reviewable. And one immediately asks: What does that have to do with the social reality of the country? What, if we ask the citizens today, would they say that they consider it a priority to reform the Penal Code? Well, surely they wouldn't talk about life imprisonment - the polls say so - and what citizens are talking about is corruption. Spain does not have a problem of serving sentences, Spain does not have a problem of tightening penalties in the Penal Code; we have the toughest Criminal Code in our European environment. Spain has a problem, which citizens also perceive, of corruption. This reform should therefore be the reform of the Penal Code to condemn, to further penalize corruption and white-collar crime. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, it is a penal party code, but it is not a penal code of Spanish society. Spanish society wanted anti-corruption measures and in this Penal Code the anti-corruption measures really are the birth of the mountains, they have given birth to a mouse. They incorporate, it is true - it has been said previously - the crime of party financing, but they put so much caution that there is no crime, they put so much caution on that crime of party financing that Mr. Bárcenas is in the street and will remain on the street under this reform of the Penal Code. As well as the white-collar crime and the crime of corruption, which is what alarms society most, are not dealt with in depth in this Penal Code, yet in other crimes, such as the small crime that has a very high criminal charge in our country, this Penal Code increases this reproach even more, and the obsession of the People's Party is with the recidivism of crime. That is also a substantive approach to this Penal Code. That is, it is a Class Penal Code: you see the property problems of those affected by small crime, you don't see the property problem of the State affected by corruption. In this sense, in my opinion, it is not the Penal Code of Spanish society or it is not the Penal Code that Spanish society would demand today to fight against corruption, speculation and white-collar crime, it is again the obsession of the People's Party with the small crime that populates our prisons and that in most cases there is no way out of social reintegration. But the essential aspect, apart from the asymmetry in the treatment of white-collar crime and minor crime, is the permanent, reviewable prison, that populist measure in the country that already has Europe's longest sentence for terrorism. In that country where terrorism can be sentenced to 40 years'imprisonment, the People's Party is putting in place a new measure called permanent reviewable imprisonment, which is permanent but not verifiable because the conditions are so harsh and the mechanism is so rigid that there is no possible review. It is, in short, no longer forty years, but rot. That is the approach of the People's Party: to rot. And that is where the position of the Criminal Code contradicts the Constitution itself. The People's Party in these measures, as in dangerous measures, does not believe in resocialization. The People's Party is going to a repressive and vengeful Penal Code, not a Penal Code aimed at social reintegration. That is the reality of this so-called reviewable permanent prison, the umpteenth euphemism in Spanish political life, which is clearly an inhumane and unconstitutional life sentence, because it is a degrading penalty. However, apart from the populism of the reviewable permanent prison that the People's Party is trying to extend among its toughest electorate, the People's Party claims in this Penal Code something deeper and more serious, and it also has to do with a multitude of measures that we are hearing in recent times. The People's Party does not have enough state of siege, it does not have enough state of emergency and it does not have enough state of emergency. The People's Party intends to regulate the national alarm of Francoism, it intends to regulate the state of alert and it also intends to do so by a sovereign decision of the Government, not of Parliament; it is very serious, in my opinion, that shows this authoritarian drift from the end of the legislature. In case it wasn't enough, the People's Party has also promoted the 'law gag'. And what is the Criminal Code in the area of rights and freedoms? Well, the 'law gag' turned into 'law shackles'. What in the 'law bites' is a sanction, in the Penal Code is a crime and a prison sentence. That is the reality of this authoritarian drift that lacks a third leg, which is the one that has to do with the anti-terrorist struggle. It is unfortunate that these measures come out of the Penal Code and will be implemented by means of a bill, and it is unfortunate, do you know why? Because they will not have previous reports from the constitutional organs of the State. For something it will be; a new anti-terrorist law that has no prior constitutionality report. I would also like to be able to discuss some issues of the anti-terrorism law with the members of the paper and with the members of this House. That abortion is terrorism draws my attention. It draws my attention to the fact that mediation is terrorism. It also draws my attention to the fact that the siege of Congress or the paralysis of the activities of an international body is terrorism. If terrorism is everything, terrorism is nothing. Terrorism is the use of terror for political purposes, with concrete facts, ladies and gentlemen, not with danger or with predictions. That is also a fact that forms part, as I said before, of this array of authoritarian measures. The core of this reform of the Criminal Code is, therefore, the limitation of rights and freedoms, the authoritarian policy to impose austerity. The clearest representation of this is article 315.3. We all believed that, in addition to the measures restricting mobilizations, demonstrations and freedom of expression there, the People's Party would respond to the fact that there are 300 trade unionists in the process for whom years of imprisonment are requested. This is the case with Jerez, but there are many other cases in our country. The People's Party not only reforms this aspect but also makes it worse because the person who violates the right to strike removes the prison reproach, puts a penalty under two years, which means that the employer who hinders the right to strike will never go to jail. In fact, there are no criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u155	Mr. Llamazares, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u156	I'm finishing up. But the worker who defends the right to strike, even if he exceeds the right to strike, to prison with him; up to three years, with which he will go to prison. Once again, the demonstration of the Government's commitment to rights and freedoms. I end up talking about the age of the sexual majority. In your reform of the Criminal Code you are not only against Parliament, against the rest of the parliamentary groups and against society, but you are even against biology, ladies and gentlemen. Precisely at the time when biology and social relations assume that sexual relations are anticipated, you delay the age of consensual sexual relations. This is crazy. You are going to place adolescents and young Spaniards in illegality for three years, with criticism of the Penal Code. It is crazy, and besides - it has been said before - some of them will be married and will be forced to celibacy. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this reform of the Criminal Code does not have much defence. It will be your party penal code, your electoral penal code, you will try to impose it on the street but there will be civil disobedience. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I now announce that Convergence i Unió is going to vote against this bill; in fact, we have already announced it during the debates that have taken place in the House. We are facing profound reform, a reform that limits fundamental rights of individuals, especially with regard to the introduction of reviewable permanent prison. Instead of talking about permanent reviewable prison, we would have to talk, as some spokesman has already said before me in the use of the word, about what it really is, of life imprisonment, even if it is reviewable, but since there is no deadline, we are talking about this. We are also faced with a far-reaching reform that means moving away from the principle of minimum intervention that should govern the entire Criminal Code, a substantial principle in our criminal law system. We are also faced with a reform that greatly aggravates the criminal consequences of the unjust act. We believe that in this case, too, we are moving away from the necessary principle of proportionality which should govern the imposition of penalties. And we also believe that with this reform it is false that greater criminal justice is achieved. We understand that this is not the way, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory statement of the project. In short, since Convergence i Unió we have been opposed to this project on substantive issues that I am going to break down throughout the intervention, but also on formal grounds. [[The lady]] Many of the speakers who have spoken before me have mentioned this. We understand that it is regrettable, very regrettable that a comprehensive reform of the Penal Code such as this, a reform involving paradigm changes, models of our penal system, has not been able to deal with Parliament with due reflection, with due consensus. Here, too, I must remind you, Minister, that at your first appearance in the Committee on Justice you offered us that possibility of consensus. He said that only those issues on which there were broad consensuss would prosper and reality has denied him, that is not the case. We have here the draft that will be approved today in this House and the truth is that the transactions that have been offered to us are minimal, apart from the effort - I have to agree with what other speakers have also said - of the rapporteurs of the People's Parliamentary Group in the face of a rather chaotic situation as regards the offers of transactions, because we did not know what they were offering us; transactions, by the way, minimal, with changes of roles throughout the whole process or the work of the paper. In short, what we were told in the Committee on Justice has nothing to do with reality, with what has happened with the parliamentary procedure in the various presentations in which our parliamentary group has actively participated. We regret, in any case, that there has not been such a consensus. We believe that the process has been a genuine parliamentary outrage. Parliamentary processing has been underestimated as a mere process, and we understand that in a law of this nature, which has the vertebrate character of our penal system, which has that fundamental importance in our rule of law, it deserved another parliamentary procedure. The minimum reasonable time limits for a reform of this kind have been completely waived. We believe that it is entirely inappropriate in a reform of this magnitude. In short, we regret and reject the entirely inappropriate way in which it has been dealt with, but, as I said, we also reject it for reasons of substance, substantial reasons. We are faced with a reform, I insist, which involves a profound change of model and, in fact, this is reflected in the very explanatory statement of the bill. Above all, it focuses on the system of criminal consequences. That is where the change is fundamental, especially in the introduction of the permanent, reviewable prison which, from our parliamentary group, we completely reject. It is a reform - it has been said and so has our parliamentary group - populist, electoralist, which responds only to media demands that are not real. A reform of the Criminal Code of this nature was not and is not an urgent need. This reform, we insist, is not going to solve the real problems of criminal justice in Spain, it does not address the outstanding subjects in order to increase the efficiency of justice and I think it is very illustrative in this regard to recall the words of the new public prosecutor in his appearance in the Commission, where he gave us very relevant data: Spain ranks number 33 in the European Union in the tax rate per population and the same is true of non-tax officials in the public prosecutor's office; that is, we are below the European average. Therefore, in view of the importance in this case of the role of the prosecution in criminal proceedings, I believe that these data should make us reflect on whether this is a reform that we really need. Are you addressing issues like this, personal and material media issues? Not at all. On the contrary, I believe that it will increase the problems that our courts face every day, which cannot deal with many of the files they are dealing with for lack of resources. We do not need this new penal code that toughens the penalties, what we do need is to increase and properly manage the personal and material resources that the Administration of Justice needs from a realistic perspective - we are aware of this, especially in the current budgetary context - or we should also prioritize other areas. We are about to process, it seems, a reform of the Criminal Procedure Act and there we have to put special emphasis on ensuring the agility of criminal proceedings, but without undermining fundamental rights of citizens because, more quickly, we run the risk of endangering the protection or the guarantee of fundamental rights of citizens. In fact, many of the polemics that come out in the media today have much more to do with the Criminal Procedure Act than with the current Penal Code because, precisely in the area of penalties, if we compare the penalties for certain offences in the Spanish State with those of other countries in our environment, the latter are inferior and, therefore, the problem is not so much to increase the penalties but to devote the efforts where we really need them. For example, we insist that the Criminal Procedure Act would be an area of special urgency, and we would like to see that in the event that such a reform is dealt with, the same thing that has happened to us with the handling of the Criminal Code does not happen. In short, since Convergence i Unió we believe that the current reform of the Criminal Code would have to pursue not only the reduction of crime as a general prevention effect but also the number of prisoners. On the contrary, this reform goes in another direction, in the totally opposite direction and what will be achieved is to increase the number of prison populations in Spain, which, by the way, is already among the highest in Europe. From our parliamentary group we denounce the fact that this draft reform of the Criminal Code has left behind the principle of minimum intervention, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, and that criminal sanctions are being misused. We are also concerned about other consequences that may result from the implementation of this reform - apart from the increase in the prison population - such as, for example, the corresponding economic cost to the Administration of Justice and the Prison Administration, in the case of Catalonia with competence in this area. Furthermore, we are fundamentally concerned about the limitation of the rights of individuals. That same concern has brought us - and I am sure all parliamentary groups - from organizations, entities, professional colleges, the General Council of Law, the Bar Association, the Young Lawyers of Catalonia, the Federation of Mental Health of Catalonia, the Cermi. In short, there is great concern about the limitation of the fundamental rights of the person who will entail this reform of the Criminal Code. In addition, this will be the Criminal Dangerousness Code, which is used abusively throughout the text to support an endless number of aggravated types and the introduction of new criminal responses. For example, in the case of security measures, danger was a concept used throughout the entire text of criminal reform. In this case, we welcome the fact that the reform of security measures has been stopped. We already said at the time that we believed that this reform was contrary to the case law of the Constitutional Court; I will quote only Judgement 23/86 of 14 February, which precisely lays down in a forceful manner a case law which is totally contrary to what this draft law contained with regard to security measures. As for the permanent prison that can be reviewed or life imprisonment, which is what it would actually be, in Convergence i Unió we already say that we are totally against the introduction of this life imprisonment. We have doubts about its constitutionality, while it could violate the principle of legal certainty. We believe that in the Spanish context and in our penal system the reviewable permanent prison would run counter to article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution; we believe that it runs counter to the resocializing purpose of prison sentences and also to the prohibition of cruel and inhuman treatment and punishment. We believe that the introduction of this measure is in complete conflict with those principles. The permanent reviewable prison is de facto a form of indefinite deprivation of liberty even though it is envisaged for possible review. It is not accurate that we are said to introduce the permanent prison that can be reviewed because no final term is set, it is of a totally indefinite duration and that is where we believe it is colliding with the constitutional principles that I mentioned earlier. Nor is it in line with what is happening in other countries in our environment, it is totally false. It is clear that there are other countries that have that permanent prison that can be reviewed, but we are talking about criminal systems that are totally different from our own, where no sentences of as long a duration as in the Spanish State are provided, where it is also possible to carry out the full sentence, which in many cases is possible to reach forty years. Therefore, we are in a completely different context from that of the European countries in our environment which have a reviewable permanent prison, we cannot compare it in any case with the forecast envisaged in this draft reform of the Criminal Code. There is another issue which we are extremely concerned about and which we do not agree with, such as the elimination of faults, the deletion of Book III of the Criminal Code. This deletion is guided by the explanatory statement of the project by the principle of minimal intervention and the response to some of them through administrative and civil sanctions. In principle, this would have to be done with the objective of the effectiveness of criminal justice. But this is not the case, Minister. Even if it is stated that the catalogue of faults is deleted, that is, that book III is deleted, the fact is that a very limited number of faults have been removed. The truth is that a large majority of the misdemeanours have gone into the category of crime, it hasn't changed...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u159	Mrs. Surroca, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u160	I'm finishing up, Madam President. He said that the vast majority of faults have not really been eliminated, what has happened is that they have gone to crime without changing the definition of conduct. They will therefore receive far more serious consequences in the face of the same definition. We are very concerned about how traffic accident procedures will be covered, for example. It is a concern that we have already expressed in various speeches in the Committee on Justice and in the presentation. Some changes have certainly been made in the area of corruption. We understand that this should have been a consensual debate as well. In addition, we believe that the changes that are being introduced simply reflect an electoral and populist need of the People's Group to wash the image against certain assumptions that are emerging in the media.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u161	Mrs. Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u162	I'm done, Madam President. On the question of terrorism, exactly the same thing, we believe that it is not appropriate that only the Socialist Group and the People's Group have sat down at a table to reach a state pact. In Convergence i Unió we have always supported the Government in this sensitive matter and we understand that we all had to be at the table to talk about such an important issue. In short, the Convergence i Union Group totally rejects the content of this bill because it goes against the model of criminal justice that we defend. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villarrubia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is proceeding today in this plenary to the initial adoption of a totally unnecessary reform of the Criminal Code, which is another step backwards in our system of rights and freedoms. The comprehensive and consensual reform of the Criminal Code of 2010 humanized our harsh Criminal Code a little bit. This great reform was agreed and voted by almost all, with the last-minute abstention of the Group of the European People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Penal Code is one of the toughest in the European Union and the degree of effective enforcement of sentences far exceeds that of the countries of the Union. We have the highest prison population rate when the crime rate is the fourth by the tail. Nor is there an increase in crime. There is therefore no objective need for comprehensive reform of the Criminal Code, let alone in the line proposed by the Group of the European People's Party against All, with its parliamentary majority alone, which is also far from being the social majority. Its policy of cuts in rights and freedoms is embodied in the ill-known law on the protection of citizens'security, in this reform of the Criminal Code and in the announced law on criminal prosecution, which includes the possibility of intervention of communications without judicial authorization. They are undoubtedly reforms at the service of ideology, with triumph of the toughest positions of the Ministry of the Interior. Gentlemen of the PP, don't be fooled any more. With the excuse of security, fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be curtailed, just as with the excuse of the economic crisis, the welfare state must not be dismantled, as you are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, the handling of this bill has been a demeanor and a real blow to both substance and form: in substance, for its contents of clear punitive populism and of widespread increase in penalties and in form, for precipitation, improvisation and processing in just a few weeks of December and January, including Christmas holidays. In addition, they were adopting a bill substantially different from that submitted by the Government of the People's Party, with more than ninety self-amendments that had not been the subject of the mandatory reports of the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council, and which concerned matters relating to fundamental rights. This constitutes a genuine fraud of law. Minister of Justice, little lasted the good intentions he showed in his appearance on 15 November in which he committed himself before this House to a smaller reform of the Penal Code and consensus. Nothing at all, Minister. It's a shame. Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of format and time I take it that I have reproduced the arguments put forward by my group in the Committee on Justice last 15 and 16 January and allow me to point out some important points on telegraph. The first relates to the reviewable permanent prison. Beyond the debate of their constitutionality or not that they may have disguised with the new denominations they have been carrying out, the new penalty they introduce in the Criminal Code implies the shame of recovering life imprisonment as a possible penalty, although it may be subject to revision. The reviewable permanent prison introduces unpredictability in the determination of the sentence, incompatible with the constitutional principles of re-education and reintegration of the sentenced person as set out in article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which concern both penalties and security measures. You've already defended him in 2010. Mariano Rajoy stated that there is no need to be afraid of life imprisonment if it is reviewable and you called it in your reviewable life imprisonment amendment. In Spain, we have sentences of up to forty years of effective compliance, which can be broader than life imprisonment that can be reviewed. Most of the criminal doctrine maintains that the constitutionalization of the end of the sentence, relating to social re-education and reintegration, is included in the catalogue of fundamental rights and public freedoms, emanating from the principle of human dignity as set out in article 10.1 of the Constitution. The penalty of permanent reviewable imprisonment constitutes an insurmountable obstacle to reintegration, given the lack of hope of the subject in his release, even if it is reviewable. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to security measures - Articles 95 to 108, 6.2 and concordants - the draft introduced a proper regulation of the laws on the danger of past times. Probation was introduced in 2010 as an exceptional measure only for terrorist and especially serious sexual offences. The bill extended probation to numerous offences and also to an indefinite period that could become indefinite. We have to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for the acceptance of our amendment 647 which abolishes all this regulation in this reform. Your withdrawal, Minister, is undoubtedly the most positive thing that the Government and the People's Party have done in the whole process of this bill. There is a widespread increase in penalties by responding to the specific caseload disseminated and amplified in related media. The People's Party goes back in time and forgets that the Penal Code is the last ratio and not the substantive means to solve some of the problems of our society; the People's Party wants to solve with repression what it is unable to solve by investing in prevention, social, educational policies, etc., and this leads to failure. The PP confirms once again that it is strong with the weak and very weak with the strong. The deletion of Book III of the Criminal Code, from the faults, makes them disappear by making a good part of the crime, about 60%, and others turn them into administrative offences regulated by the Law on Citizen Security. The transformation of offences into administrative offences, far from decriminalizing, leads to a greater restriction of citizens' rights and to an increased risk of arbitrariness in the application of the rules. Consequences: the sanctioning power is removed from the control of the judiciary and passed on to the administration and the guarantees applicable in the administrative procedure are much lower than those of the criminal procedure: the presumption of veracity of police reports is expressly recognized, which now have only the value of a simple complaint; the burden of proof is reversed, the consignor has to prove his lack of responsibility; for there to be judicial control it is necessary to go to the contentious-administrative jurisdiction, with the payment of fees, etc., and if we speak of the civil way, it is necessary to go to the civil jurisdiction with the payment of fees and with the collapse that exists. It's a misconception this elimination of faults. As regards the criminal liability of legal persons, regulated for the first time in the 2010 reform, Amendment 815 of the People's Group represents a self-amendment with total new regulation that has not been informed by the General Council of the Judiciary or by the Fiscal Council. The defective regulation that you present has a greater margin of impunity, presents and establishes a way of business and a part of your reform has been limited to literally copying several sections of the regulation of the administrative responsibility of the legal persons of Italian law. This defective legislative graft, with excessive regulation, with reversal of the test, has entailed an extraordinary expense and that does not apply in Italy in these fourteen years; the best thing they can do is to withdraw it. For the sake of brevity, as far as the regulation of penalties is concerned, I refer to what was expressed in the Commission on Thursday and Friday, as well as the suspension and replacement of sentences and probation, which incorporate it as a form of suspension of the penalty when our Criminal Code treats it as a form of enforcement of the penalty. There has been no agreement, ladies and gentlemen, on the regulation of conditional release because they did not accept Amendment No 644 of the Socialist Group, which required for conditional release in the seizure of property or public property the effective return of the return and that no inaccurate information be given about the property in the fight against corruption. As regards civil liability, confiscation, regulation of criminal records, I also refer to what has been said in the Commission. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the People's Group that the Penal Code is not the moral code, but the code of coexistence with respect for constitutional values. For these reasons and many more, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote against this unnecessary, populist, unjust reform and increase of indiscriminate repression, with a penal code of disproportionate hardness, directed, yes, against the usual ones. [[Applauds]] The second part of this speech will be made by my colleague Antoni Such.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Villarrubia. For the same group, Mr Such has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, I will proceed to defend the Socialist Parliamentary Group's amendments on the special part of the Penal Code, and I will do so by focusing on three or four fundamental aspects which are priorities for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Minister, this reform entails a widespread and unjustified increase in penalties for ordinary offences. A clear example: crimes against people. This Criminal Code increases the penalties from three to five years'imprisonment in all forms of murder and murder offences, in addition to introducing the permanent reviewable call. We want to know, Minister, why. What is the reason for this increase in penalties proposed in the Penal Code? What are the reasons? Why are these types of crimes increasing? Why does general prevention fail? Why doesn't it work? Because the penalties are lower than those of other European countries, Minister? Is there a petition from the citizens to raise the penalties? We want to know what the reason is. We have tried, both in the paper and in the Commission, to have the People's Party explain to us the reasons for raising and increasing the penalties for such crimes, and we do not yet know them, Minister. Let us hope that the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group will be able to explain what is the reason for the increase in penalties. But, Minister, I will tell you something about the crimes against corruption. In the face of corruption, there is a need for a response from the public authorities, including Parliament, by expanding the types of conduct that are reprehensible and criminally punishable, and in some cases by increasing the penalties to be applied, for two reasons: deterring potential criminals and also removing them from public life. One of the most surprising facets of the PP's proposal on corruption is that none of the penalties were imposed on corruption offences, none, even in two types as characteristic as coed and embezzlement lowered them. Its amendments only proposed the inclusion of the penalty of loss of the right to vote and the extension of the rights to limitation periods. The Criminal Code of the PP raises the penalties harshly in ordinary crimes, but its amendments, Minister, are excessively benign with the corrupt, a traditional approach of hardness against the weak, as my colleague Julio said before, and of weakness against the strong. The PP then realized that, in fact, it could not maintain this position and has accepted some amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to increase penalties, which is to be thanked, but completely insufficient. One unfortunate example is the illegal financing of political parties. It is one of the most serious issues, because it alters the rules of play of democracy: participation on an equal footing. What is the answer of the PP? Quite inadequate, Minister. Anyone who receives or makes illegal donations to political parties will not be punished by imprisonment, only a fine. In order for the illegal donation to be imprisoned, it has to be more than 500,000 euros or 100,000 euros if the donor is a foreigner, and technically it is not said whether that figure is per donor or per receptionary, per year or per electoral campaign. No criteria, Minister, on this matter. You don't know. Really hard to prove. Indeed, if you review Mr Bárcenas's list we see that no one has given more than 500,000 euros. Perhaps that is a good example of why this type of action is included in the Criminal Code. We find it completely unacceptable, Minister, and a facsimile. As there is little time left, I will try to focus on two more issues that are tremendously important. The offence of coercion of strike pickets, article 315.3 of the Criminal Code. We thought we were going to come to an agreement on this. The unions gave them enough documents to be able to work on this subject, but the reform that has been carried out is completely inadequate. We understood that it was necessary to abolish and refer to the basic type of coercion in article 172.1 of the Criminal Code and not to leave it as they have left it, because what really implies is that the action of employers who prevent the strike has been reduced to two years in prison. Therefore, it is difficult for employers to enter into prison if they impede a fundamental right of workers that is freely exercised. The second of the issues is the raising of consent to sexual age. Both in the Commission and in the paper we believed and understood that we could come to an important approach. We are still waiting to know why the sixteen-year-old was adopted in the Commission, which was what was in the text of the bill. We do not know what has happened between the demonstrations of the People's Group and what is actually reflected later. Let us hope that this issue can be dealt with and explained. We understand that increasing from thirteen to sixteen years is an excess, especially considering that our Civil Code establishes that marriages can be reflected from fourteen years. We understood that there could be a real and effective rapprochement so that we could reach a consensus among all in this area. And finally, the crime of assault and public disorder. This reform in the area of crimes of attacks and public disorder is repudiable and represents a hardening that we do not share in facing social protest. It is a clear complement to the Citizenship Security Act. Especially serious is the expansion of the concept of attack, which now includes only severe active resistance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u167	Mr. Such, I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u168	I'm finishing up, Madam President. From now on, it will also include passive resistance, simple protection against a police charge, a blockade or a settlement. We understand that we are seeking authoritarian management of the fundamental rights of assembly and free expression, which we Socialists reject. I'm done. Minister, you are going to be responsible for an unnecessary code that seriously violates the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards, a code that goes from a law of prevention and prosecution of crime to a prior criminalization of citizens' behaviour. Minister and gentlemen of the People's Party, this will be your responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u169	Thank you, Mr. Such. We're moving on to position-fixing. Mr Barreda has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group supports the reform of the Criminal Code because we consider it essential and comes to plenary after more than a year of parliamentary procedure. It is therefore an improved text by all, although it has not been recognized here, and which the opposition, in particular the Socialist Party, rejects. And they reject it by claiming, first of all, the forms. They talk about precipitation, lack of time, imposition. Mr Villarrubia and Mrs Díez appeal to the supposedly exemplary handling of the 2010 reform. I've checked how much there really is and how much myth in your words. In 2010, Congress approved the reform in five months. That was speed. Now, on the other hand, we're on our way to fifteen months. They have had ten months only for the effort to introduce amendments. Then there were five presentation sessions, just like now, and only one Commission for two in this process now. And then 200 amendments were incorporated compared to the more than 300 amendments that have been incorporated at the present time. The conclusion is, gentlemen of the opposition, that the 2010 reform was not legend, it was tale. It is a story that you use as a pretext, once again, for a destructive opposition that has not been able to propose alternatives. Therefore, I insist, there is neither haste nor imposition here, there is a tale of an opposition that has rejected the extended hand of the Government and the People's Group and that has not been able to join that dialogue effort after 300 amendments and after the withdrawal of such a controversial issue as that of security measures. You reiterated your arguments for the full debate in the Commission and have reproduced almost literally the Commission's speeches in this debate in plenary. They oppose the whole content of the bill because today they are prepared to vote against all the Commission's opinion. The object of a parallel reform will be all those relating to terrorist crimes. We must congratulate ourselves on this open possibility of a pact, of comprehensive agreements, of what must be State pacts in order to face new challenges, of new criminal modalities, especially those arising from jihadist terrorism. Unity strengthens our capacity as a society to deal with the threat. No one is intended to be excluded and we must trust that no one will be self-excluded from the quest for understanding in order to face terror. We are in favour of this reform, an essential reform. Spanish society demands more efficiency and a better response from justice. We legislate to solve the problems of the Spaniards. We know the varied doctrine; we know the opinions of experts for all tastes, but we legislate for people, to respond to their demands and solve their problems. Therefore, in 2015 this is a reform to fight corruption and pursue the corrupt. It is a reform that revises the regulation of economic crimes, which has characterized unpunished conduct so far, which exacerbates the sanction of unfair management of public assets and extends criminal liability to public commercial societies. As we will see, it is a reform that defines the illegal financing of parties, disqualifies convicted persons from public employment, prevents them from running for election and emphasizes the return and recovery of what has been illegally achieved. You will vote no for all this today. It is a reform for the protection of people and goods, which gives answers to this diffuse insecurity of a crime that is eaten by the weakest or most unsuspecting; it aims to provide security to traders, those who suffer thefts or thefts in the countryside, those who are overwhelmed by forest fires caused or suffer shootings, thefts or thefts in commercial streets or squares in our cities. From now on, it won't be the same as stealing a dozen. The repetition of the thefts will be accompanied by imprisonment, there will be aggravated types of house-to-house robbery and those acting in organized groups will also be aggravated by their conviction. Better instruments will be available to combat multi-recidence and foreigners who are sentenced to more than one year's imprisonment will be expelled from Spain. You will also vote for all this today, not today. It is a reform to strengthen the protection of minors from abuse, child pornography or sexual exploitation. It is a reform that protects women and fights sexual harassment through the Internet or other telematics and raises the age for sexual consent to sixteen years. This is certainly an issue under discussion, but they regulate Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Finland, Russia, Switzerland and Portugal equally; it does not seem to be an exception. In any case, you will vote no. It is a reform to combat discrimination, racism, violence or xenophobia, also on the basis of gender, and its dissemination through social networks in our country; a reform that reinforces the fight against trafficking in persons and that definitely prevents the provision of humanitarian aid to an illegal immigrant from being a crime, as well as prevents the effects of Article 315 on trade unionists, which you adopted in the 2010 reform and which in no case are the responsibility of either the People's Party or this Government. You too will vote no for all this. He said that this is a reform to combat corruption. That is the main demand of our society. Citizens want to see justice done and want an effective criminal response to the corrupt, that justice has the right tools to combat this scourge, that undermines confidence in democratic institutions and that the principle of equality is at root. We have sought unity in this matter; everyone knows it, especially the Socialist Party. We've been working on the deal for months. That explains part of the delay in this bill. It wasn't possible. Also in this key matter you have preferred to make a destructive opposition, an irresponsible and destructive opposition. However, the fight against corruption is a fundamental part of the drive for democratic regeneration; moreover, it is a requirement of Spanish society that we will not leave unanswered. That is why the Criminal Code incorporates far-reaching changes in the fight against corruption; changes that only Mrs Surroca has admitted to date, of course, in the Commission. Of course, the Socialists came to the Commission without reading the papers and it is very difficult for you to understand anything; perhaps to disqualify everything - as is well known - there is no need to read the papers. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on, man!- Protests]] [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] We are paying attention to the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, and they want three things, very simple, very understandable: that the corrupt go to jail, that the corrupt go out of the administration and get away from politics and that the corrupt return what they have stolen; and in those three objectives this Penal Code makes significant progress. [[Mr Villarubia Mediavilla utters words that are not perceived]] To begin with, and it is not a small thing, political parties will continue to have criminal responsibility and also trade unions; they have had it since 2012 as legal persons. I know that you are opposed, because I know that you do not want political parties to have criminal responsibility. They defend criminal privileges, inexplicably, for political parties; they will continue to have that criminal responsibility, even with their opposition; they will continue to have it. There will also be new criminal types. Today the corrupt go to jail, because the sentences end up coming and by the demanding line of jurisprudence in this matter; but it is not enough. This is why the reform introduces into Title XIII bis the offences of illegal financing of political parties. This is the first time that illegal party financing has a criminal response in Spain. The reform punishes those who hand over, accept or receive illegal donations and those who are part of structures or organizations intended to finance political parties outside the legal framework. You have tried to trivialize these articles. They said he's not going to jail, and it's a lie, literally a lie. Article 304 bis permits the graduation of penalties for individual conduct from the person who delivers or receives an illegal donation. The fine may in any case be five times the amount donated, but the most serious conduct, starting at 100,000 euros in some cases and starting at 500,000 euros in others, will have up to four years in prison - this for individual conduct -. In addition, Article 304b provides for five years' imprisonment for those who form part of any structures of illegal financing from the first euro - I repeat, any structures of illegal financing from the first euro, Socialists - up to six years' imprisonment, i.e. the higher penalty to be imposed on those who run those structures. Therefore, stop trying to deceive public opinion. The illegal financing of parties from now on will have consequences, and serious; it never had any, but now it will have consequences, and serious, in accordance with the Penal Code. Even though you oppose the criminal responsibility of the parties and vote not this afternoon, it will be so after the final adoption of this Penal Code. The second commitment is to move the corrupt away from administration and politics. To this end, the reform, first of all, generally increases the penalties of special disqualification, minimum and maximum, which correspond to disqualification for employment or public office in crimes against the Administration. This is true, among other things, of crimes of prevarication, from nine to fifteen years; of coed, from nine to twelve years; of influence trafficking, from five to nine; of misappropriation, from ten to twenty; of privileged information, from nine to twelve; and so forth. Secondly, in the most serious crimes, the additional imposition, not alternative but additional, of a second penalty of special disqualification for the right to vote is added. In other words, those convicted of corruption offences will not be eligible for public office, nor will they be eligible to run for election. This is provided for, for example, in the offences of co-offendering, prevarication of officials or trafficking in influence. [[The Lord]] Thirdly, the prohibitions on hiring with the Administration, the prohibition on receiving subsidies or aid, or on access to tax or social security incentives are extended to ten years in the most serious cases. This is the case in the crimes of conspiracy and in those committed by those who agree to defraud the Administration. Fourthly, the limitation periods have been extended, which will reach the age of fifteen; that is, the time limits are extended to avoid that feeling, of impunity for the corrupt for the mere passage of time, which some citizens have when they see how they prescribe such crimes. This is the case for the most serious cases, for those with disabilities of more than ten years' duration. We are talking, therefore, about judicial prevarication, administrative prevarication, law enforcement, fraud, etc. And finally, thirdly, our society demands that corrupt people return the proceeds of their crimes, and criminal law must provide justice with tools to make it possible. In general, article 90 provides that parole may not be granted without fulfilling the civil responsibilities declared in a sentence, generally for all types of offences. In addition, this general provision will result in the denial of conditional release where those convicted of offences against the Administration have failed to discharge their financial responsibilities or to repair the damage caused, and specifically in tax or social security offences, will not be able to obtain the suspension of prison sentences imposed without paying tax or social security debts, or prior reinstatement of subsidies or aid unduly received or used. All this that you banalize will reject it and today you will vote no. Finally, in order to enhance the action of justice against corruption, in order to give a criminal response to the demand of the entire Spanish society not to give truce to the corrupt, the Criminal Code will incorporate a new regulation of confiscation with a clear objective: to prevent corrupt or any other criminal from circumventing the action of justice on the proceeds of his crimes. We want corruption to be unprofitable for those involved in it. With the reform Spain fulfils its international commitments and transposes the corresponding European directive. The regulation of confiscation without a sentence is improved, the scope of the extended confiscation, which will apply to offences of laundering, coercing or embezzlement, and will allow the confiscation of property of accused persons who come from other criminal activities, outside the scope of which is being investigated at that time. There will be indications, such as the disproportionate income-to-equity ratio, that will allow judges to act against the proceeds of any crimes committed by the accused. Finally, the regulation of the confiscation of property held by third parties is improved so that convicted persons cannot prevent the tracing of their illegally obtained and hidden assets. For the management of its assets, the Asset Management Office is created, like France. As can be seen, in many different areas, the Criminal Code strengthens the means and capacity of the rule of law against corruption and corruption. Well, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists will vote no on all this today. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I think we must have a lot of face, Socialists, to go up to the rostrum to disqualify this reform. [[Mr Villarubia Mediavilla utters words that are not perceived]] You have to have a lot of face because four days ago, in 2010, you didn't do anything, and don't tell me that then there was no corruption, please. The Government and the People's Party want, with this reform of the Criminal Code, political parties to have criminal responsibility, illegal financing of parties to be a crime, corrupt people to be unable to remain in the administration, to contract with them, to run for election; to return stolen or defrauded; to be denied parole otherwise; and to be investigated until the end of their property and concealment manoeuvres. [[Mr Villarrubia Mediavilla utters words that are not perceived]] We will vote on all of this today. You Socialists will vote against all this today in the speech against the criminal responsibility of the political parties. Well, get up here, look in front of Spanish society and explain why they didn't do any of this in 2010 and why they oppose it in 2015. That's your responsibility this morning. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. At the service of these objectives, the reform incorporates important developments in the Criminal Code, beginning with the elimination of faults - some will be minor offences, other administrative sanctions - a long-standing request made by prosecutors, for example. The system of penalties is being modified with the introduction of a reviewable permanent prison; a punishment which you have made a criminal caricature and which you intend to confuse with life imprisonment and thus confront it with our Constitution and its provisions on reintegration. They're fallacious arguments. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State and prominent socialist personalities - I will not mention them again - have endorsed their constitutionality. The European Court of Human Rights has declared the conformity with Article 3 of the Treaty of Rome of similar penalties in many European countries. The reform reserves this penalty to the crimes, the most horrific murders, the ones that cause the most pain and the most repugnance in Spanish society. It is society itself that is demanding that it is not equal to kill one than twenty; that it is not equal to condemnation without taking into account the scope, pain caused or ungodliness in the conduct of the criminal. We are talking about terrorist crimes, crimes against life and sexual freedom, crimes committed against minors or particularly deprived persons; conduct that deserves the highest social and criminal charges, a criminal response proportionate to its gravity and the social alarm it raises. Well, you'll vote no for this, too. The reform makes the regulation of legal milestones more flexible and modern, such as the suspension and replacement of penalties. It is true that probation is included as a form of suspension, so that the sentence for a new offence allows the suspension to be lifted and the offender to serve the remainder of the sentence in prison; this was rarely the case until now, since the probation period had already expired and criminal responsibility had been extinguished. The limitation periods for offences have also been extended to ensure that criminals, particularly terrorists and corrupt persons, cannot benefit from problems of investigation or the slowness of the cases. In turn, the discretion of the judges is increased - I conclude, Mr President - in relation to the primary offenders or the assessment of the recidivism and the assessment of the criminal record. It is a question of avoiding the unfair effects of certain procedural automatisms to date and of favouring, say what you say, the social reintegration of prisoners, in particular those who commit crimes for the first time. Of course, you will vote no for all this. Finally, the People's Parliamentary Group, for all that has been said, will support with its vote the reform of the Criminal Code. It will also support the correcting of errors in the opinion and the technical amendments of the lawyers, including that which - not at the request of Mr Llamazares but in line with his request - linguistically unifies the draft law and maintains the term confiscation as a preference for the term "commissioned" which was used in some articles. Mr President, if you will allow me fifteen seconds, I do not want to end without thanking the work of the chairman of the Committee on Justice; the tone of all the speakers above the discrepancy; the work of the teams of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government, not only but only those of the Ministry of Justice; the work of the lawyers of the Commission, simply essential as I believe has become very evident in this debate; and that of my colleagues in the paper and the Commission. I will only quote a name in this speech, that of our spokesman José Miguel Castillo who for fifteen months has carried out a huge task with political groups, with dozens of social entities and throughout the vast majority of Spanish geography. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. Do you intend to speak, Minister? [[Consent]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u172	Thank you very much, President. I do not want to reopen the debate, nor do I want to go into the substantive issues of the many that have been dealt with at this morning's sitting. I just want to highlight two issues. First of all, I would like to express my thanks - which has been repeatedly expressed - to the parliamentary groups, their spokesmen, the services and the lawyers of the House for the work they have done during these weeks in an intense, participatory and open debate to improve this draft which this House approves today. 300 amendments have been accepted or negotiated. Despite the assessment that your ladies and gentlemen can make of the qualitative and quantitative importance of this process, it seems to me that it has a high value for debate, negotiation and technical and democratic improvement of a bill as important as this. We will also have the opportunity in the Senate to put forward amendments, to continue to improve it, and all this with the objective that we have put forward from the very beginning: that we can count on a reform of the Criminal Code that is typical of today's times. It is a reform on which, although we had talks between the spokesmen of the Government and the parliamentary group, we were told from the first day that they were not going to vote in favour of two or three issues that seem important to them. For the Government and for the People's Parliamentary Group, this has not been an obstacle to seeking dialogue, consensus and, as I said, accepting up to 300 amendments. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE CONTROL OF ECONOMIC-FINANCING ACTIVITY OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/2007 OF 4 JULY, ON THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES; ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/2002 OF 27 JUNE, OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, AND ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1982 OF 12 MAY, OF THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS. [[File number 121/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u174	We turn to the opinion on the draft Organic Law on the Control of the Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties, amending Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the Financing of Political Parties; Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June 2002 on Political Parties; and Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May 1982 of the Court of Auditors. Firstly, there will be a number of members, as I said earlier, as far as possible, from the Joint Group. Among them, Mr.Savior has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by highlighting the two bills that frame this debate, which we are dealing with today and the exercise of the high office in the General Administration of the State. I also believe that participation, high participation through amendments by almost all groups in this debate on corruption, has been positive - we have to value it this way. The provision of the People's Group must also be recognised because at the end of the procedure - if no one corrects me - there may be more accepted amendments than are still to be accepted in this draft. In any case, I believe that this is a fundamental project and I hope that at the end of this process there will be an agreement, which is what the citizens are asking us to do. I do not think anyone is disqualified from proposing solutions to corruption. Union del Pueblo Navarro has tabled amendments to both projects, as I say, both this and the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State, with common objectives, which were: that there is greater control of the financing of political parties, as well as greater control of public expenditure, greater depoliticisation of justice. However, we intend to eliminate or at least reduce, and to the maximum, areas of corruption. UPN has proposed a ban on donations, not only of legal persons, as the draft contains, but also of natural persons in our amendments 31, 32 and 33, which have so far been rejected and which will be voted on together. We have also called for the cancellation of loans to political parties by banking entities, which is true that it has already been accepted through the incorporation of other amendments. In our amendment 34 we have proposed the reduction of time to half of the electoral campaigns, because in one year with four already confirmed electoral calls - once it has been done with Andalusians - we should consider it seriously once again; it is amendment 34, I repeat. We call in Amendment 35 for the impetus of the budget office of the General Courts. This is a 2010 commitment that hasn't just started. We tabled the amendment on 27 November, the convention between Congress and the General Administration of the State was concluded on 4 December but we have not yet seen it published, and we would like to make progress on that. We were planning other formulas to eradicate corruption, which is true that they do not correspond to this bill but that we find it interesting to maintain. Amendments 36 and 37 seek to depoliticize justice by recovering the system of election of judges by the judges themselves and number 38 opens a debate on the possibility of inclusion in the Spanish system, also at the level of political parties, an office, a mechanism or a system of complaints of irregularities, which we believe would be a step forward in the control of corruption. We know that it is a mechanism that is not yet covered by the Spanish law, but there are already many experiences in English law in certain sectors and also in several European countries. We call on the Government to submit a bill within a reasonable time to include this system of internal complaints, accompanied by appropriate legislative amendments, always guaranteeing both the confidentiality of complainants and the right to their defence of the persons complained of. So far, and as far as we know, this does not seem to be the appropriate procedural time to generate or open this debate, or it is not political time, but we are going to keep this amendment in the hope that in the future there will be another sensitivity that will make it acceptable. In any case, I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out what the wise man said: If we want to achieve different results in order to combat corruption, we will have to do different things. That is what our amendments seek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 27 November President Rajoy introduced this bill as one of the anti-corruption laws. On that occasion I voted against the amendments to the whole pending the passage of this draft by the Constitutional Commission. There is no doubt that the assumption of many of the amendments has improved the text by incorporating elements of control and caution, although I understand that this is not enough and I have already announced my abstention in the vote on it. I understood - and I still understand - that all political action should be driven by an ethical attitude and behaviour based on truth. There will be no doubt that there has been a situation in which no one tears their clothes for failing to tell the truth, from the President of the Government down, and on that scale I include, where appropriate, the media world of information. It comes to mention an event in which the Minister of Finance acquires the protagonist, but which affects the Government with its president at the head and to which I referred yesterday in my intervention regarding the validation of the actual decree on the financing of the autonomous communities - not to mention someone else that the jurisdictional dynamics brings up every day and that profile the ethical contours of the People's Party in obtaining the political advantages that we have known the world as Dick the Tramposo -; it comes to mention the concept of loyalty of the autonomous communities and the autonomous communities that is quoted so much, but that leads us to ask where we fit the loyalty due by the political parties to the citizens, through which they participate in political life, of what is promised in electoral period and what is fulfilled in electoral period from the Government or from the parliamentary opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of corruption in my opinion is not only the control of the financial economic activity of the parties but also the identification of the values and commitments to those values that are behind any political group, any social group and its representatives. No regenerating norm will achieve something positive while in the hearts of the rulers it encourages the feeling of cheating, of living by and to create a world of fantasies. This rule can certainly help, but let no one take it as a zero point of a new curriculum, of a new development. I'm done. It must be restored - this seems like a happy world, an idyllic world, but it is what I feel - from school the civil ethics of society that leads to distinguish between good and evil, to which not everything is worth in political life; to the principle that the end does not justify the transgression of moral principles; to the exemplary value of the rulers and of those who are more or less conjuncturally in political life. If we are not able to act in this educative line of these ethical values society will take care of the pruning and the subsequent sowing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Last month I read a news report that said: The government prohibits banks from clearing the debts of political parties. Ah! But have the banks forgiven the parties? What games, how much money? And, above all, why have they forgiven their debts, in exchange for what? That is the concern of citizens who reflect the surveys. Those are the things that people would really like to know. The feeling that one has in front of such measures as today's is uneven. On the one hand - we recognize it - it is a good thing that even if it is timidly it advances in control. Since there is currently an absolute majority in this Parliament but also an absolute majority in cases of corruption, we believe that this makes substantial progress difficult, even if they are forced to make up their image and make gestures. On the other hand, this law is still far from what we understand and what many citizens aspire to as measures to control the financing of political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, Judge Ceres prosecuted 19 people for the illegal financing of the Valencian People's Party. According to the UDEF, illegal financing has already begun at the time of Mr Zaplana, who, in addition to being president of the Generalitat, was then Minister of Labour of the People's Party and spokesman for his group in the opposition. You guys never talk about this, you make the Swedes. You speak right now - which is current - of Bárcenas, who was treasurer of his party no less than twenty years, as of that person, far away. That person - his treasurer for twenty years - accumulated 47 million in Switzerland. What was a treasurer in the People's Party doing to get someone to pay him that money? What did they pay you for? Why did Mr. Rajoy call you by your name, Luis, and now you've become that person, the unknown treasurer? You have been cheating for many years, winning the elections with generous transfusions of illegal funding and presenting us here today with greater control of money in A, when the problem is, has been, in the money you manage and have managed your party in B, with which you have won elections. How will the Court of Auditors monitor the activities of all parties, their foundations, the more than 8,000 municipalities and the deputies with only twenty officials? Impossible. Let us remember that the Court of Auditors endorsed the numbers of the PSOE and the PP and it had to be the judges who found irregularities in the cases Filesa, Naseiro, Gürtel, Bárcenas, Punica, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, while we recognise that there is some progress in this reform, we once again understand that it is insufficient. It is a law that comes out pathetic and partisan, for example, in some of the changes in the Electoral Law that do not address the main knot, the fair distribution of seats and public subsidies. I'm done. In short, when you really answer all these questions we will really believe that you want to control the parties in a transparent way, especially yours. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, two important projects are coming today, and the Canary Islands Coalition committed itself to working to see the social and political need to address these issues, but I want to say two things. With regard to the High-Charge Statute, we are not presenting amendments, we are going to support it without shaking our hand at all, but we want to reflect on the debate that was generated in the Commission. We cannot pretend that public activity is a permanent issue in life or that it destroys your professional life. You can't be critical that you're copper two years after departure and that you're incompatible at the same time. They cannot be told to certain people who cannot return to judicial life or to official life because they are not neutral and, at the same time, do not give them a way out. The move towards high-ranking responsibilities in a Government is a temporary stage in life and we have to dignify it. With this bill the important thing is to be transparent and clear, with a regime of important incompatibilities, but with a solution to what is the personal life of people who at one time want to engage in public activity. With regard to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, we tabled a group of amendments which were adopted in their entirety in the draft and in this regard I meant that I believe that there are things that are not enough. The People's Party cannot claim that with the adoption today of the reform of the Criminal Code, the Financing Act and the High-ranking Status we have regenerated the policy and that there is transparency. There is a social demand and there are things that have remained in the way, with allegations of constitutional reform. There's an alternative, and I'm putting in the case of the rigging. I am of the view that the renunciation of a constitutional right has a legal framework, and this has been raised to me by important judges. What if all the parties agree that we renounce the right of restraint? That's interpretable. As long as we do not appeal to the Constitutional Court, because we have good laws in this country and we will not appeal to any of the parties, it will be in force as a law. Perhaps we should be brave in certain matters. Of course, I share UPyD's view on limiting the contribution of individuals to party financing as long as it is transparent and can be taken for granted in society, because it is in the debate. The more private funding, the better, is the model we would have to build, the more other Western countries have it, and we have no doubt that they have transparency, read the United States or in countries our western environment. It seems to me that these limitations are absurd as long as there is transparency, as long as you know how you donate and what the amount is. In that regard, we must go to a model that does not fall on the public coffers because of the lack of awareness of funding in our country. In any case, the expectations we had with the first meetings with the People's Party and the People's Group on political regeneration issues have been cut short. In that list that we had at the first meetings we did not want to assume, perhaps because of the haste of the People's Party in the face of the social debate that we had to get it out now and no longer wait for the consensus, perhaps because of the closure of the Socialist Party claiming things that are on the street and that they do not have...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u181	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u182	I'm done, Mr. President. I do not know, but I believe that this should not be a point and an end, but must have continuity with regard to the first will expressed by the Government and the People's Party to go further in the political regeneration of this country and in meeting the social demand. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a situation of serious political crisis caused by the numerous cases of corruption, mainly within the People's Party - I have always said that 90% of the cases of corruption are institutional or political positions of the People's Party - the Government has introduced three bills - one from the Criminal Code, the other from the Staff Regulations and the other that we are debating at this time of funding political parties - as major projects aimed at combating corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Galego Nationalist Block we understand that these bills are nothing but smoke, because there is nothing in them to tell us that applying the law that is going to pass corruption in political parties today will cease to exist. Ladies and gentlemen, one question I ask myself is how to legislate the exemplaryness that must be implicit in any political office, especially when it is an institutional one. This exemplaryness which can best be demanded, in addition to the citizens when they go to vote, is the political parties, which cannot have in their ranks anyone who does not act properly. Therefore, it cannot be said that political corruption is to be combated when it is not expelled from the ranks of parties that are being corrupted or when corrupt people are left in their institutional positions in their actions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is pure and simple smoke. As an example, I will cite an issue related to an amendment tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block, Amendment 119. We cannot understand how the majority group in this House, the People's Parliamentary Group, in addition to preventing people working for public administrations from donating to political parties, does not agree with the amendment by the BNG, which also incorporates natural persons who are managers or heads of companies. No, the People's Parliamentary Group seems to want to leave behind the possibility that political parties can be financed from those companies that are working with public administrations. Another issue that is very important to us too is the amendments to the Electoral Law in the direction of reducing the costs of electoral campaigns, because it is one of the causes of the imperative need of political parties - at least some of them - to get so much money. The only thing that has been shown so far is that they can achieve great absolute majority, but with implicit and explicit corruption that is shameful and embarrassing to all the people we are working on politics. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr. Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u186	I shall try briefly, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, our group will vote that not because this is a very important law - in fact, it is our law, the law that controls political parties - and it should be the strictest of all, but we understand that it is not. There has been progress in some areas - it is logical, it would only be missing at the time we are - for example, as far as the control of donations by companies is concerned, but in other areas there is no progress. According to this law, donations of individuals in kind or in cash are not avoided, foundations and political associations are not subject to the same vigilance as political parties, and there we have an escape route. Madam Vice-President, at the time, in 2012, they accepted our amendments in this respect and not now. Why then, yes, and not now? What happened, what happened? Frankly, we're surprised. Lobbies, interest groups or lobbyists are not regulated by law, and that must be done by law, it must be strict. In short, what we are asking for is normality, which applies to everyone - also to political parties - which is normal for any other citizen, and even to us as the most normal. Here we are talking not only about political parties, but also about politicians, that is to say, ourselves, elected officials and high political officials. We must be and must seem - like Caesar's wife - the most normal; that is an effort we must make. We have already tabled amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Congress in this regard, but that must be legislated, it must also be incorporated in the practices and rules that govern us. We have to be normal, we don't have to go by official car, except for very exceptional security reasons. In our daily practice we no longer use it, we have renounced that privilege. Why don't we make a collective decision in that regard? Why don't we? We don't have to go first or business, we have to go tourist, like everybody else, like normal people. Why don't we make a collective decision on this? We already do it in our daily practice. Let's be bold. We must renounce and make disappear the diet system, which generates suspicions, logical. Why do we not rely on a system of expenses against justifications, as is done in any company, as does normal people? In addition, there must be reasonable salaries, not higher than those of government presidents, autonomous communities or mayors; transparent salaries. That is normality, the strictest of normalities, which we must apply to ourselves. We say people don't trust us. But how will people trust you? We must be and seem normal, it is the way to connect; to go by metro, to go by taxi, to go in tourist class, to have normal salaries, without uncontrolled or uncontrollable extras. We are trying to do this, but that is not enough, we must make a collective decision on this.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u187	Mr. Bosch, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u188	We have not done enough because we have not convinced the rest of the politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a decision on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u189	Thank you very much, Mr Bosch. Finally, Mr Larreina has the floor within the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. We are faced with an important issue that concerns the people of the street, because in the end, when we talk about corruption and unite it with the world of politics, we are talking about something very serious, something that questions the democratic system, a democratic system that has to be based on something that is fundamental, equal opportunities. Precisely when we talk about party funding, we are talking about something that very directly affects equal opportunities, because that undoubtedly makes some parties, some political forces can have many more means than others illegally. This is the issue that is on the table with this bill, which has as its title the control of the economic and financial activity of the parties, and which is also behind all these measures that from the Government have been driven in the theoretical pursuit of combating corruption. When you speak of this subject, and seeing what is being translated into reality, I think of the phrase of the Prince of Salina, Don Fabrizio Corbera, in El catapardo, when he said that everything must be changed in order to keep everything the same. Behind all these legislative initiatives have been changing things in the positive field, but in essence, so that everything remains the same, and I am particularly concerned about that. A clear indication that everything remains the same is what they have done with this law. They have engaged in a legislative corruption in which they continually fall, which is to pass, in a law that refers to the control of the economic and financial activity of the parties, an amendment to the Party Act in Article 9(3) in a sense that has nothing to do with the economic activity of the parties and that goes along the lines of the last ten years, when they apply that altogether is ETA and ultimately adopt restrictive measures of the fundamental right of political participation. This amendment to Article 9(3), which they introduce into a law of economic and financial control of the parties, has nothing to do with this issue, introduce indeterminate legal concepts that allow this legislative amendment to be applied precisely in order to severely curtail the right to political participation. And this isn't theory, it's practice, they're doing it all the time and they're doing it right now. At the moment we have in the courts people who are being tried for their unique and exclusively political activity, with a total rejection of violence, with a clear commitment to rights and freedoms, and the National Court is judging them right now. There are people who are judged solely to do politics, applying indeterminate concepts, to whom I referred in the Commission saying that they even serve to illegalize the Socialist Party at a certain time, because they mean that when using messages that use people who are committed to terrorism, a party can be illegalized. That seems unacceptable to me from a democratic point of view, that is political corruption, that is corrupting democracy, that is undermining democracy. Freedoms are never defended by cutting freedoms, they are defended precisely by strengthening the exercise of freedoms. The only way to combat those who use violence is precisely by strengthening those who opt solely and exclusively for political action, and you are making it difficult with amendments to laws that have nothing to do with the fundamental right to political participation. This seems to our group to be particularly serious and irresponsible at a time when we should all be involved in building peace, in making peace, as Lederach says, in order to contribute to creating a more just society in which we can all exercise our freedoms in a total and normalized way. That's what you're preventing and that's what we're worried about. That is why we are particularly opposed to this law, not only because it does not go far enough in the area of economic and financial control of the parties or clearly guarantee equal opportunities, but above all because it is using a law to amend another law and to cut a fundamental principle which is that of political participation, in line with what you are following in all the legislation of this legislature. They are addressing a covert reform of the Constitution, cutting down on fundamental rights in the social sphere, in the political sphere and in the area of freedoms, and that is unacceptable. We have often said that the Constitution of the Spanish State, its Constitution, is not acceptable to us because it does not recognize collective rights. However, we have also admitted many times that in the area of individual rights it was a very advanced Constitution. In practice, you have also been cutting those individual rights, which is unacceptable to us and makes us reaffirm the need to claim sovereignty for our country in order to exercise that sovereignty and create a Basque constitutional sphere that recognizes rights and freedoms for all citizens. With this I conclude, Mr President, because our commitment - we have said it many times in this rostrum - is to contribute to building peace, to building coexistence. Working for peace is not a bad return for evil, and you lately in the legislation are falling into that defect, in returning bad for evil, in falling into a dynamics of revenge that makes no sense. We continue to offer our hand to build peace, to make peace, to build a society in which violence has no presence and in which respect for all individual rights is a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start with criticism or what I see less clearly in this law, because I already said in the Commission that it left me a bitter sweet taste, just as it is going to come out of Congress today towards the Senate. The citizens' first question before the amendment of these three laws I suppose would be: will this end corruption?, will this new text put an end to corruption? Two things need to be answered clearly. First, whoever wants will always try and find a way to skip the established rules. In any case, that would be illegal. What is going to be much more difficult and, if taken, at a much greater risk with the sanctions to be imposed, is to adopt that conduct and act in that way. On the other hand, are you going to end this with corruption? It depends on the attitude taken by the domes, the leaders of the various political parties. Unfortunately, this matter, beyond the need for legislation, affects not only personal ethics, but the collective ethics of parties. Based on the attitude and messages sent from party executives and exemplary sanctions or measures that can be taken in the face of situations that occur, we will be able to make progress in reducing this scourge. Another of a citizen's questions could be: could the adoption of this legislation already sound any irregular conduct? And before that I have to say that definitely not. And of all that has happened must explain those political parties that are affected. This should not cover certain situations or certain cases which we are still seeing, over and over again, in the media and which we hope will be resolved and judged as soon as possible, without any excuse, with the corresponding explanation of each of the political parties to which they are concerned. A third question could be: have we faced the problem of financing? We've partially confronted him. Rather, we have faced the problem of the control and transparency of the financing of political parties. That of financing as such has been left to us half, because what is done is to close the faucet of the possible subsidisation of natural persons. Legal persons are totally prohibited and natural persons are severely restricted. It is true that these limits are open for foundations, but that can respond more to a type of party model that works for one in its daily activity and in parallel with a foundation, but not to the vast majority of the models that political parties have in the Spanish state. The private channel of subsidies is also closed, because there is a 20% cut in the mailing costs of political parties. This may seem reasonable, but what we are not facing is whether this is really going to be enough funding, because there are two parts, one, which has to be transparent, that it is controllable, that any data is required, but the other is: are we really right about the distribution of funding sources and are these sufficient? With regard to this last aspect, I am afraid that we will have to reflect in a few years' time and see if we are really giving an answer or not, because I believe that this chapter is not closed. [[The lady]] Has this law, this amendment, responded to things that citizenship was asking for? I believe that it is, that many things are, especially in the area of control and transparency, and also in order to clarify complicated situations for political parties. For example, a time has been set for all the statutes of political parties to establish when a person who has been brought before the courts and who has public responsibilities must be suspended in his or her rights of militancy. In this we have already established that it is the oral trial, because we know that in many cases false complaints are made to create certain feelings about a particular political party, and although there will then be an exculpatory sentence, that person may have been accused. We have established that it is the oral trial and a suspension, and also an obligation of all political parties to expel from their formation those who have been convicted of corruption. Obviously, this does not prevent, as I have said before, each of the authorities of the political parties from taking measures previously, which they consider appropriate, in order to be even more radical or exemplary, if necessary, in a case which is obvious. The reporting obligations for political parties have also been specified in great detail, with regard to the response to be given also to the Joint Congress-Senate Commission on who is responsible for the accounts within political parties, which also entail a number of breaches with serious penalties. At this point, I would like to mention in the 'Diary of Sessions' an aspect that concerns me for parties that we do not present ourselves in the entire electoral sphere of the State, which is the issue of the ceiling of electoral expenditure, because the framework of the electoral campaign costs the same for a province as for forty-fifty-two and, however, because of the regulation in the Loreg, the ceiling of expenditure for political parties that do not present themselves in the whole State is smaller and therefore easier to break. While the basic expenditure, the fundamental expenditure could have been the same for a People's Party as for a Basque Nationalist Party or for a Convergence i Unió, the ceiling, however, is much more limited for some than for others. I say this because one of the clear issues in the violations is election spending and this difference should be noted in the 'Diary of Sessions'. In addition, some important issues have been clarified, for example, that certain activities that have been traditional in some parts of the State by political parties, for example, the activities of the Batzokis or the houses of the people in the Basque Country, which have always existed as a way of approaching and interacting with the citizenry and which have had the hotels open to the public, should not be confused with what may be a commercial activity of political parties, it being understood that this activity must always be thoroughly controlled by the Court of Auditors. And that activity will be under control, it is in fact now under the control of the Court of Auditors, but it should not be confused with what is called commercial activity in another article of the law. We have approved a stability factor, so that it does not remain in the hands of the Minister-in-Office, Mr Montoro-in-Office, who cuts subsidies to political parties by 40%, so that it has been agreed that this is due to the social expenditure of the consolidated budget of the General Administration of the State. Well, there's a reference. As we have also made a cut, I think it is strong, with that cut of 20% of the mailing. Does this mean that all the issues have been addressed? No, there are still things that need to be addressed in the Senate. There is a matter which may seem nimi but which is important: now they have wanted to introduce, and I think it is correct, minimums in the statutes of the political parties; mine have very little impact on these minimums which are payable but we believe that they will serve for the democratization of all the political parties, we think that they are not only those represented in this House but that there are hundreds of political parties in the state. That's going to be good, but there's a matter that we need to change, and it's because the age of affiliation has to be the age of majority, eighteen years, when the traditional age for some political parties like mine, for example, has been sixteen years. It would not be bad to approach young people, people who are interested in approaching politics, that this can be done from an earlier age. Another issue that remains to be addressed. I don't know if this will be accepted or not. If the Court of Auditors finally examines us all, what better way than when it comes to appointing it we could all have a stake. We will continue to maintain an amendment in which we ask that each parliamentary group in this House at least be able to propose one person, obviously trained enough, to be part of this court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u193	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u194	The return of the property of political parties is also pending, some of us have lost a lot of property with State seizures. For example, there is a building that uses the state, the Cervantes Institute in Paris, on Avenue Marceau, which was paid for by my political party, which has never seen compensation...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u195	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u196	Just three minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u197	Three?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u198	Yes, please. We are dealing with an important issue, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u199	Yes, very important, I understand, but try to summarize.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u200	Madam Vice-President, you know that I will be concise and brief. This issue, even as a commitment to the future, must have some mention in this law. It's justice, it's rigor. It was done with the unions and must be done with the political parties. I'm finishing up, Madam Vice President. It was necessary to give an answer to the citizenry and to a large part of what citizenship demanded is given an answer in these changes, perhaps not in everything, but for that it was necessary to submit amendments and to work, and not in all cases this has happened. Is he out of his mind? Certainly not as we all wanted, but important progress and progress are achieved and they cannot be said to be no. Let us see how it has just come out in the Senate, but at the moment it seems to us better with these changes in terms of transparency, in terms of control, in terms of what citizens demand than what they had previously, and therefore our vote will be in favour. Taking advantage of the presence of the Minister of Justice, Madam Vice-President, in ten seconds I have to tell you something that has nothing to do with this but that as I see that it is having an impact on the press, I was going to let it pass by doing a favor to the minister, but as I see that it is having an impact on the press - I repeat - I cannot let it pass. The insinuation he has made in the answer to the question of control that my political group favours terrorists or tries to favour terrorists is intolerable. It is intolerable because you know that this is not the case and that we have always been in defence of democracy and with the victims. I wanted to point this out publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u201	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u202	Thank you, Madam President. In the Committee my group explained that it was going to abstain in the vote on this law on party financing, but we have changed our minds and I will say why. First of all, this law actually touches on an issue of the utmost importance which has to do with nothing more and nothing less than the reputation of political parties, which in a representative democracy are simply indispensable for any citizen to have opportunities for political action. There is a fundamental problem which, in our view - and I have already explained it in the Commission - this party financing law has dealt with in an insufficient way, and that problem is the terrible perception that most citizens have in Spain about political parties. In fact, in the latest CIS survey one in four respondents said that political parties were one of the four main problems in Spain, which indicates a degree of rejection - perhaps also of ignorance - that must be taken seriously as the case requires. In addition, there has been a steady emergence of new political parties over the past eight years, including mine. Some of them have had parliamentary success, others have not, but what is clear is that despite their bad reputation, political parties remain the usual, normal and of course the most useful way in which citizens can participate in democracy. In this case, the Party Financing Act therefore had to deal with one of the key issues of that bad reputation, which is the perception that political parties are largely hotbeds of corruption. It has already been said here, but I think it is necessary to repeat it: it is true that for many years there has been a lack of policies of transparency, opacity, lack of regulation of the internal functioning of the parties, which are not private clubs. The parties are a somewhat peculiar institution with a mixed, public-private character. Indeed, we have our own rules and we have our affiliates and supporters, etc., but we have public utility, and that is why there are subsidies and public aid for the operation of that special and particular institution that we are. I do not want to go too far in the arguments that I have already explained in the Commission on this issue, but I do want to remember that, as I said at the time, this law was an opportunity to get to the bottom of the issue, which in our opinion was not, and that is why we were going to abstain because we did admit two things. One of them is that in this Commission, unlike others, there has been a real interest in reaching a consensus, perhaps because because it is an issue that affects all political parties as political agents, beyond their political or ideological differences, it seemed easier to reach some common measures. However, others have remained in the dark and we are particularly concerned about two. One of them is the funding model. What this law actually does is to make private party funding very difficult because it requires a series of measures that are presented as transparency but that are actually advertising which private individuals donate to parties, which in our view discourages the possibility of political parties being self-financing to a greater extent. The other measure, which we do not share, is that they prohibit financing by legal entities, not by natural persons but by legal persons. We have already explained why, but I will repeat it because this is important, especially in a country with as little democratic tradition as Spain. Political parties, since they are public-private entities, in our view and as other countries - recently for example Germany - have to have a mixed funding regime as their ideal, should be public-private, but obviously if we make private financing difficult we go to the public. This may seem very virtuous to some, but it traps us: it goes against the principle of equal opportunities because those parties - and there are many - that have not yet entered the institutions, and they have all the right of the world to enter if they get the necessary votes, they will find it enormous difficulties to function because private financing is very difficult for them. They are not going to have bank financing because the rules of bank financing depend enormously on public financing. That is to say, banks lend to political parties if they have the guarantee - until the state stops doing so, the administrations start to fail, which has already happened by the way - that the state will return in the form of grants most of that loan, for example mailing and other items. What happens to a political party to which there are enormous difficulties for private funding through donations? For he is not going to find public financing, because he is not entitled to this law, nor is he going to find bank financing, because of course that path is practically closed. That happened to my party: in 2008 no bank, not one of them lent us a single euro because they felt that we were not worth it; fortunately we denied that pessimism, but obviously it is a barrier of access practically insurmountable in many cases. This law, in this sense, is to reverse equal opportunities by moving towards a financing model in which the parties are basically dependent on the State, with the added fact that they are going to be judges and parties since it is the ruling parties and the large opposition groups that are going to agree on how they are going to be financed with public funds. Although there is progress in transparency, the substance of the issue does not change, i.e. it does not move towards a system of self-financing of political parties. My party is also against these theories that exist there that say that parties do not have to receive a euro. This is absurd because then they would have no public interest, it would be private clubs and neither are they nor do they have to be. But of course moving towards a mixed funding model would have been something very appropriate for the sensitivity that society is asking us for because of the need to share burdens, to make political parties more open and, above all, where society is in the background able to support with its funds what it wants to have, for example a concrete political party. The second question, which has left us even more dissatisfied: what has happened to the crime of illegal financing of political parties. We already told them in the Commission that we would be paying attention to what was left in the Penal Code and I have to say that the government here has played legislative trilerism because, in the end, the matter was where I put the crime: you have here several glasses, choose. But from the beginning there has been - in our opinion - a desire to conceal what the final outcome would be, because it was alleged that the crime of financing political parties, since it was about crimes, had to go to the Penal Code and therefore all the amendments - ours and other groups - that were going in this direction were rejected. But then, in the Penal Code, although progress has actually been made on the previous legal vacuum on the crime of illegal party financing, which I say is the most serious type of corruption affecting political parties as such, it has been very unclear and indeed confused and unclear, which in our view will make it very difficult for us to act beyond the cases we have already known, for example what has happened with the Bárcenas case and other similar cases. Finally, this could still have an arrangement or a pass if we saw or had found some kind of purpose of the amendment, as it were in the old Catholic language. But we have found ourselves in the last three days with exactly the opposite, you have done something that is truly incredible: to use an official account of the Ministry of Justice to advertise the position of the People's Party through the Ministry of Justice - Mr Catalá - about the denial of the existence of box B when it turns out that box B of the People's Party, whether you like it or not, has been accredited by both the prosecution and the State's Attorney in the investigation of the Gürtel case. And if it turns out that we have practically just approved a report of the paper in which we are talking about a crime whose figure or popular expression is to have a B box, it turns out that you yourselves are denying something that is accredited in an instruction and of course we find that this is, in the background, the old puppetry of trying to make tangled laws that cover up the underlying problem in order to try not to solve it. Look, the problem is not that illegal financing is controlled by the Court of Auditors because, if it is illegal, obviously nothing will come to the Court of Auditors. It should already be something to investigate per se what exists, for example, and that double-counting or, to put it popularly, travel of briefcases and envelopes with money is typified. It's not done, it's all eluded. As a result, it is going to be extremely complicated that from this Penal Code legal, criminal, actions can be taken against a political party as a collective responsible party for a constant practice, continued over time, of illegal financing. Finally, what I was saying before, if we already use a ministry to make propaganda - in substance, to justify corrupt practices denying that they existed - it is clear that you have no intention of changing practices nor have any intention of reaching the bottom of the issue, which is responsible for the poor reputation and bad reputation of political parties. That is why we have decided to change the vote. We do not trust that there is any real interest in regeneration beyond propaganda. You can already say that much remains to be done, of course! To avoid corruption, they have almost everything left to do, and let's hope that what they are planning to do is not go back to the tracks. My group maintains its amendments and in this case will change the abstention vote to a negative vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u203	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u204	Thank you, Madam President. By setting a little where we are moving, the national press published yesterday and again today a fairly large announcement from the People's Party launching a media campaign on how well things are going, transparency and how well the Government is doing. [[Show Page]] This campaign, launched by the People's Party, is also part of this law, the law we have seen in the previous item on the agenda, the Criminal Code, the Law on Senior Officials - which does not return to the plenary because it is not organic law and was rejected by the vast majority of groups in the debate in the Commission - or the Law on Transparency, which was also widely rejected by the groups of the House. In the midst of this campaign being carried out by the People's Party and the Government, my parliamentary group does not want to be a sidekick, another part of that campaign. Mr Esteban asked himself a question earlier: will this reform of the law serve to end or hinder the cases of corruption that have occurred and that have alarmed the population so much? Would this new legal text avoid what has happened, what has filled headlines and taken the treasurer of the government party to jail, even though he may be released in the near future? In our view, the text improves the existing ones, but it does not prevent the will of the people to commit crime or the will of a political organization to finance themselves in a manifestly illegal way. From the point of view of my parliamentary group, as long as we do not address, moreover, the causes and the ways in which these gifts are made available, those deliveries of money that eventually reach the funding of the parties, we will not have curtailed the fund. We basically refer to the Public Administration Contracts Act, because one of the mechanisms that has been: I give you or your party money in exchange for getting a contract later. We have not entered there, nor have we entered or entered under any circumstances to reform the Soil Law, which has been one of the main mechanisms of corruption in the local administrations, as it has been lived in the City Hall of Alicante costing the mayor of that city. We have neither entered into nor discussed one of the main mechanisms of government control at all levels - here, in the autonomous communities or in local governments - and it is that of the means necessary for the control of those governments, the means that are made available to the opposition to control those who govern, which is one of the main functions of the opposition in democracy. This also relates to the funding model for political parties. The parties rule or oppose those who rule and control them. That requires means, and it is the view of my parliamentary group that these means and funding of political parties must be public because of the popular support they get in the elections and one of the key amendments that we put forward defended it, without forgetting that the militants and supporters of political parties also have a key importance in financing through their quotas and contributions. My parliamentary group is not going to be completely negative in relation to the text of this law. We recognize the work that has been done in the presentation by the rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party and we recognize that improvements have been made in this legal text, of which I would like to express three specifically. One, the sanctions system; the system of sanctions, the criminalization and the sanctions that are to be imposed on political forces that do not carry the finances and that do not carry the accounting as a mark of the legislation has been improved. Two, control over party funding and transparency; here, in our opinion, it has been improved - not everything that could be improved but improved - by the work that has been carried out in the paper. Or the mechanism for updating the registration of political parties, which did not exist, and there is already a system that improves the registration of political parties, inflationary in the number of parties that have been registered in recent years. However, my parliamentary group has tabled thirty-eight amendments to this law, of which only seven have been negotiated or accepted and thirty-one are still alive because they have not been accepted. That is why my group wants to bring to this House what issues have not been covered by the new wording of the law and make it impossible for us to vote in favour of it even though, as I say, progress has been made. The issue of subsidies to political parties is not improved because of the number of votes, but the second ratio is maintained according to the number of Members. The donation of real property, which is maintained, has not been prohibited. We also proposed that the limit on donations should not only be EUR 50,000 per year for natural persons but that the sum of three years should not exceed EUR 100,000. We propose a specific regulation of the spending procedure in political parties to facilitate this mechanism of internal expenditure control and that its militants also take into account how money is spent within their parties, which does not always happen and is a fundamental right of the militants to participate. We are planning an increase in the time limit for prescriptions. We planned a better drafting of the processes of regulation and protection of the rights of affiliates, especially around the ethical commission or guarantees of transparency, with one thing very concrete: to ensure that the militants of the political parties will participate in the elaboration of the candidatures of the electoral processes, without giving up that in the process in the Senate can be included in this law. We were proposing the creation of a commission for the rationalization of electoral spending, which we believe is basic; in addition to talking about how the accounts are consolidated, we also need to talk about how political parties spend money on electoral campaigns and whether or not it is necessary to maintain those rules and mechanisms of spending. The Act also amends the Court of Auditors Act. My group has tabled amendments to improve the functioning of the Court of Auditors, to limit the duration of mandates, to avoid what has happened: to see the Court of Auditors in the press about how its staff has been recruited or how it has worked internally. That is why we have tabled amendments which, unfortunately, have not been incorporated. Finally, there have been two basic issues that are extremely important to us when we talk about what the Government intended, which was a pact for democratic regeneration. On the one hand, the financing of foundations, which are instrumental entities of political parties. My group has tabled amendments and has already advocated in the previous reform - because this is the second reform that is being made in this legislature of legislation affecting the financing of political parties - the application to foundations, to instrumental entities of political parties of the same financial limitations of donations that political parties have. This has not been contemplated or assumed by the People's Parliamentary Group, which maintains a clear opposition to these limitations being applied to the foundations of political parties. For us it is a basic point, because as an instrumental entity of a political party it can end up doing practically the functions that the law reserves to political parties in certain matters, not only in the elaboration of ideas but in matters relating to the transfer of such ideas to society through actions, activities and we would also be leaving an open door. In that regard, there has also been an open door that has been left, which my parliamentary group did not like and highlighted in the paper, and that is that there is no limitation on contributions. There is a limitation on donations - 50,000 euros per natural person per year - but there is no limitation on the contributions of the militants. With this there is a door through which you can legally do what the law encloses in its text as donations. The other basic issue for my parliamentary group was the reform of the Loreg, making the Electoral Law more proportional and more in line with what citizens vote in the ballot box, because this House, above all - less in other institutions - has been the repository of deep democratic injustices. Here Members have sat who have legitimately obtained their seat with only 30,000 votes and yet other Members have needed more than half a million votes in order to obtain their seat in this House. That's manifestly unfair. At some point, at some point in 1977 this electoral law will have to be reformed. It must be safeguarded that the parties that we present ourselves throughout the Spanish State because we have a draft state we find it extremely difficult to obtain seats because of the need to present themselves by provinces. Mechanisms must be put in place to compensate for this in order to make the distribution of votes per seat at the end less unfair and less unequal. For these fundamental reasons, because the limitations of political parties do not apply to the foundations, to their instrumental entities and because there has not been the slightest intention to introduce in some way a reform in the Electoral Law, in the Loreg, to make it more proportional and to correct existing inequalities, my parliamentary group cannot vote in favour of this text. It is the second time in this legislature that this text is seen in the House. Seven laws will be amended, but it is still not enough for our parliamentary group. We should have entered into greater legal reform that could correct all the perverse effects that we have seen slide into the press and that have so alarmed the Spanish population in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. Mrs Surroca has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a reform that represents an important step forward in terms of greater control and transparency of the economic and financial activity of political parties and I believe that the opposite is to distort and manipulate reality in the interests of strictly partisan interests. Therefore, since Convergence i Unió, as we already did at the time in the Constitutional Commission, we recognize this substantial advance in greater control and transparency in the field of political party activity. We believe, however, that a debate has been opened, the debate on sufficient funding for political parties. It is a debate that will remain as an outstanding subject. We would like it to be addressed in the Senate, although we see it difficult because a debate of these characteristics that needs to be addressed from realism would have to be left out of certain climates. Probably now, as we are facing a forthcoming election, it is not very convenient for that debate to be approached with due serenity and realism that would require such a subject. In Convergence and Union we believe that this issue remains pending. I want to make it clear that what we are defending is a mixed funding model with public and private resources, as is the case in many other European democracies. We can examine the case of the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and France. All these countries have a mixed funding model and we believe that there should be support for the funding model we want for political parties in Spain. There must be public funding because political parties are a substantial part of our democracy and that is why we also believe that it must be compatible with private resources precisely to encourage the participation and involvement of citizens in political life and especially at a time when we are being called upon to become more actively involved by citizens in political decision-making. However, this bill, like the latest legislative reforms in this area, remains short both in terms of public funding and in terms of private financing. We have to pay attention to a given. As far as public funding is concerned, in the last four years regular funding - that is, outside of electoral processes - has been reduced by almost 40%. The reduction has been exemplary and has even gone beyond what has happened in other areas. There are areas where austerity has to be, and one of them is the one we are dealing with right now, but we believe that we have gone even beyond what was strictly necessary to underpin those important pillars for our democracy that are political parties. We said that this project is also short on private financing, because apart from the prohibition of financing through legal persons with donations - assuming from the outset that this is a negative thing - private contributions are not encouraged through tax incentives; precisely in the last tax reform, incentives for the contributions of natural persons to political parties are reduced. Therefore, for Convergence i Unified this is an important debate that will remain as a pending subject, and we would like it to be addressed in the Senate, although we see it difficult in the current political context. Besides, we're in a pre-election period. I will continue to focus on the part that corresponds to control and transparency; I said that there is an important step forward in terms of greater control and transparency of political parties. Further information is ensured on the origin of party funding and also on the destination of expenditure. Now there will be much more control and much more transparency. The role of the Court of Auditors as a supervisory and supervisory body is strengthened. This is an important matter, although it has also remained to redefine its composition and mechanism of designation - the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has already made reference to this -. Furthermore, as we said, there is also another important change, which is the appointment of the head of the economic and financial management of the parties, and the latter will have to appear in the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors in the event of infringements, and will have to explain the issues that are required of him. This is a figure that did not exist so far and that would have avoided many of the problems that are emerging these days in the media. Another very important aspect in terms of greater transparency and control is the clarification of the relations of political parties with financial institutions, forcing them to provide certain information on party-related operations. In addition, debt and credit cancellations are prohibited. We cannot deny that all these issues are relevant because of the progress they imply in relation to the current regulation. The new regulation of the minimum content to be contained in the statutes of political parties is very important. This content will ensure that the parties are governed by minimum democratic principles common to all of them. Many of those minimum contents have already been met by much of those we are here, but there are other political parties that do not comply with them. It is also very important because it will facilitate the openness of political party structures to society, as well as the effective participation of its affiliates in making important decisions in them. In this area for Convergence i Union it is particularly interesting to have introduced in the draft that we are discussing some amendments that establish, for example, greater guarantees to protect the data of natural persons who decide to make financial contributions through donations to the parties. Here there are still aspects that can be improved through some of the amendments that we are going to keep alive; we should continue to talk in the Senate about this issue in order to bring the bill into line with the Personal Data Protection Act. Another important aspect of this bill is the fight against corruption. We understand that there is a substantial change in this minimum content of the statutes of political parties. We have been able to agree on something as important as the debate on what we political parties have to do when we meet with defendants, with openings of oral trial between our affiliates or even criminal convictions in cases of corruption. A common approach has been established that will have to be reflected in the statutes of political parties and, therefore, this is a very important and necessary step forward at this time. The work that has been done in the presentation on this point has therefore been substantial. There are a number of amendments from our parliamentary group that should be evaluated, so we keep them in the Senate. One of them refers to the financing of political parties, to which it is necessary to motivate, through fiscal incentives, the contribution of individuals to political parties and their financing. If we limit public funding - as is happening through State budgets - and limit private funding, we suggest that by excluding donations from legal persons, such participation is encouraged through micro-methodization mechanisms and incorporating tax incentives. There is another important issue for Convergence and Union, and it is the so-called historical debt; there is an amendment from our parliamentary group which refers to it. This is a debt that the State has been pending for years with certain political parties and, therefore, we are going to insist on this issue in the Senate. In short, our parliamentary group is going to support this bill because we believe that substantial progress is being made in that part of greater control, greater transparency. The debate on what appropriate funding should be for political parties is still pending. We believe that this should be dealt with in the Senate, and we trust that those outstanding issues can end up being saved at the other stage of the parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr José Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. We're talking about corruption again. As other speakers have pointed out, we are holding this debate in a climate upset by the news of the past few days. They began with a trembling writing from the prosecution and continued with the release of those who best exemplify the perverted relationship between politics and the economy. The stupor citizen is not only understandable but shared - I am sure of it - by almost all of us. This is the third of three bills that the House will have passed within exactly one week and which proposes preventive and punitive measures against corruption. The first, approved last Wednesday in the Constitutional Commission, defines the Statute of the senior officials of the General Administration of the State. It is a project that claims to subject to special controls the activity and income of senior officials. It is true that it incorporates improvements in the regime of incompatibilities that affect them, but I have to say that it is enough with the refusal of the People's Group to take measures that effectively prevent the strict, strict, phenomenon of the revolving door to justify our vote against that project. Do you really believe that we can continue to protect, for example, that successive health advisers from different autonomous communities take advantage of their position to place themselves, two years after their cessation, at the head of private sector and health companies, when they previously lacked any experience in this sector? The second is the reform of the Criminal Code. It introduces a new crime, that of illegal financing of political parties, and incorporates a harsher response from the criminal sphere to corruption-related crimes. If we take into account that the new offence of illegal financing requires the receipt of prohibited donations in excess of EUR 500,000 and that the tightening of penalties for corruption offences to a large extent is limited to adding the penalty of loss of the right to passive suffrage, they will understand that my group's negative vote on the reform of the code includes among its reasons our disappointment with this treatment. Do you really believe that this is what citizens expect or what they want is that those who have become rich at the expense of the public money they have squandered or the contracts they have awarded in exchange for commissions or alterations in urban planning are in prison for a long time? The third is that which we are now debating, namely the reform of the financing, organisation and functioning of political parties and their control by the Court of Auditors. It is a text that, in the version we now see, prohibits the financing of parties by companies and other entities; limits the amount of donations made by natural persons and subjects them to transparency obligations, including the identity of the donor and its communication to the Court of Auditors when they exceed EUR 25,000; increases the court's own control over the economic and financial activity of the parties, which must also meet new accounting and audit criteria; establishes the direct responsibility of managers or administrators; imposes a very severe regime of monetary penalties for infringements in this area, and also in that of exceeding authorized electoral expenses; and incorporates a stability clause for the public financing of parties under the State General Budgets. It also affects the organization and functioning of the parties by democratizing and making their lives more transparent, as it imposes maximum periods for the meeting of their congress and for the election of their leaders; it recognizes specific rights for the members, such as to participate by universal and secret ballot in the internal elections or to appeal by contradictory procedure against the decisions of the governing bodies and against disciplinary sanctions; and it imposes, and this is particularly important, automatic responses, i.e. the suspension of the membership of the members involved as defendants in criminal proceedings for corruption and the expulsion of those convicted of crimes of the same profile from the party. In all these changes are the Socialist Group's amendments, but there is also the work, I would like to expressly acknowledge it, and the receptivity of Montserrat Surroca, Aitor Esteban, Ricardo Sixto, Carlos Floriano and, in particular, José Antonio Bermúdez, who have made it possible, as my colleague Antonio Pradas and I myself have proposed, to have been translated into shared ceilings that will be voted on today. This assessment must not forget that the majority group has postponed future projects by the Government, which we do not know, to discuss some of the issues on which we had tabled amendments which have not therefore been accepted, although they are very clearly linked to some essential elements in the treatment of corruption. For example, I will mention: the refusal to change the system of designation by the Chambers of members of the constitutional and regulatory bodies; the refusal to correct the law of public sector contracts in order to put an end to the corruption of split contracts, to contracts awarded without public tender, or the refusal to lift the secrecy for tax offences over €30,000, of which tax fraudsters still enjoy, despite the challenge that the Minister of Finance addressed to parliamentary groups to transfer to another power. We did, and he refused. He will have to give the explanations and we will keep a separate vote today for our amendment on this issue, which is number 144. It has been an argument to postpone these issues to future standards which, fortunately, has not been applied to other proposals with the commitment to reduce the strenuousness, the flexibility of the conditions for the defence in the House of People's Legislative Initiatives or, although in a very frustrating way for us, the control of pardons. However, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it seems that for two years now, a curse has clouded the decision-making on the fight against corruption in this House. The problem is that it is not a fetum that rains us from heaven; it is simply the slow but inexorable call of attention that does justice to a corrupt reality that strives to be present in our debates and that objectively conditions them, for two reasons: above all because it is very broad the reticence with which many citizens receive regenerating initiatives that come from a government whose party appears, over and over again, mentioned in some summaries. We are the first to believe and to know, from experience, that from the past one learns and more if it is that of the history itself. We do not deny that capacity, but it is not enough, even if it is important, to promote legal reforms to give force to that learning. They must be accompanied by explanations and condemnations and not by stumbling blocks in silence or ignorance. It also conditions our debates because, at least in the eyes of my group, it increases the importance of what we could have done and have not done. With regard to high-ranking officials, in particular with regard to their resignation and that of elected officials, when they are faced with circumstances which link them to corruption, in the increase of custodial sentences for offences of political corruption, in the adoption already - we know that they are announced in a future project, but we do not know them - of measures aimed at speeding up the processes, ensuring the return of the unjustly learned, decolonizing the institutions and so many other things raised as a coherent whole and not with the current split. That is why my group shares the measures contained in the text that we will vote on today, but we will abstain in that vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u209	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mr Floriano has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to set out my group's position on the organic law for controlling the economic and financial activity of political parties. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, corruption is not a new phenomenon, because corruption does not understand either eras or ideologies or parties. I do want to stress, because it is a new phenomenon, the political will to end corruption through a comprehensive plan that is totally intolerant to those who do not respect the nobility that exists in the exercise of public service. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. The law on which the position of my group is fixed is part of a series of reforms of legislative initiatives, of rules that seek to make it impossible for corrupt people. If anyone managed to dodge the controls, punish them harder and, most importantly, force the corrupt to return the stolen. It would be unfair to forget that these legislative initiatives bring about the will expressed by the President of the Government in the 2013 State of the Nation debate. A clear, clear political commitment that today brings its translation into various legislative reforms. If anyone thought that the People's Parliamentary Group or the President of the Government would lack determination to address anti-corruption measures, they would be wrong from start to finish. We must also make it clear, because it would be unfair not to do so, that as far as those who have worked in the paper and in the Commission in the law we are debating today are concerned, this will is shared almost unanimously. That is why I would like to acknowledge and underline the effort made by all the rapporteurs, but they will all share with me the desire that the "Diario de Sesiones" should include the recognition I express to the work done by my group colleague José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law we have shown that the majority in this House is consistent between what we say and what we do, that what we do is not just words, but facts. That is why this law is a law of self-requirement of political parties, self-requirement of transparency and self-requirement of exemplaryness. It is a law made because those who want to end corruption, because at this time it is very important to distinguish between the corrupt, those who want to end corruption and those, who also have them, who do not want to end corruption, but to use it to get electoral revenues. After listening to Mr Martínez Gorriaran in a paper and the Commission thought it was impossible to include him in the latter group. Believe me, I have my doubts after listening to you in this rostrum this morning. Mr Gorriaran, you are concerned about the prestige of political parties, you are concerned about the importance they have, but what are you doing to improve the prestige of political parties given their importance? To say that we're all corrupt except you? It changes, with absolutely nothing going on, its view since the presentation and the Commission to the plenary, saying that the Criminal Code does not include what is being said, that it is the recovery of the figure of the illegal financing of political parties, and it also says that you want to increase private financing, the financing of legal persons to political parties. Mr Gorriaran, we understand that we must separate the business world from the financing of political parties, and we believe that this is a much more important step than the one you intend to take here. Mr Martínez Gorriarán, I would ask you to reconsider your position, because there are no arguments, you have not put forward here any solid arguments to detract from your position in the Commission, and I think you will do a great favour to the prestige of the political parties if you regain your position, which you maintained in the Commission. If you are not included among that group of people who intend not to end corruption, but to draw electoral revenues from it. Because it is a true fact that there is now a great deal of damage to nothing that tries to delegitimize politicians, whom we are in institutions, trying to delegitimize them with the sole objective of ending the system. They present corruption as something that is of all but them, trying to appear as the only legitimized to have power. It takes a lot more than words, a slogan or a charlatan to end this tear that bleeds public life. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are corrupt people in Spain, but Spain is not corrupt and the institutions are corrupt. In our country, the rule of law works, because the police, the Civil Guard and the Tax Agency investigate, prosecutors do their job and judges judge and condemn. It does not avoid everything, ladies and gentlemen, as the Penal Code does not prevent the continuation of behaviors that deserve social reproach, but it is true that anyone who has behaviour under the Penal Code knows that after his behaviour he may have a very probable sanction. That is also what this law seeks, so that political parties that have certain behaviours know that from now on they will have a more severe sanction than they had so far. He will not avoid it, but they will know that they have a much more severe sanction than they have so far. In Spain, who makes the payment, but this is not an obstacle, it is not an obstacle for us to give a fight without a headquarters against corruption, for us to respond to the new demands of transparency and exemplaryness, demands of all citizens. We are the depositaries of popular sovereignty, the representatives of all Spaniards, elected by the Spaniards from among the Spaniards to serve them. That is why, when we adopt rules like today, we tear down the walls that may exist and those that some interestedly try to raise between this House and the Spaniards who are on the street, because with this law we answer one of the problems that people have, one of the problems that we have. We do what is expected of us when we increase the mechanisms for controlling, detecting and sanctioning corruption, because if we do not end corruption, corruption will end everything. In this regard, the Comprehensive Plan against Corruption has more than seventy measures, including those incorporated by this law that we are discussing today and others that affect both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Prosecution Act. We prohibit donations to political parties from legal persons to separate the business world from the financing of political parties, and we prohibit debt forgiveness. Without giving lessons to Mr Baldoví, who I regret that he is not in the House at the moment, although he always goes up to this rostrum with the intention of giving lessons to others - I do not intend to give lessons to him - when he wondered why the Government was pushing for the measure to prohibit pardons to political parties and said which political parties had been forgiven the debt, without giving lessons, I will tell him that one of the partners who did so to him mayor. Perhaps you should ask them, why and why they led credit institutions to cancel their partners' debts, as they led them to the city council in 2007. [[Applauds]] I would like to stress, as the Basque Group spokesman has done, the clarifications that this law makes between certain activities, some to improve the participation of the affiliates and what are commercial activities and how violations and sanctions are hardened and the limitation periods are extended, which will undoubtedly make it much easier to detect and punish the behaviors that are persecutable. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that today the Spanish receive a very clear message from this House, the message that their representatives give a clear and strong response to corruption. We are going to end it, we are going to end corruption because we are determined that all those who use the institutions, the administrations that govern and the parties or unions in which they militate do not have a single day of truce, will not go free to try to take everyone's money or to use the honesty or integrity of those we honestly dedicate ourselves to public service. He who corrupts himself robs the most needy, the poorest, the most vulnerable, those who depend on everyone's money to have a decent life, and it is our responsibility as legislators to put all the means at our disposal so that not a single cent of public money is distracted from its main function, to improve the lives of all Spaniards. Darwin said history is repeating itself and that's one of the mistakes in history. Today we have the opportunity with the adoption of this law, and of the other initiatives that make up the Comprehensive Plan against Corruption, to prevent the shameful history of political corruption in Spain from ever being repeated again. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. We are the depositaries of popular sovereignty, we are the legitimate representatives of citizens and we represent people because we are part of the people, to whom we listen and with whom we share their concerns and problems. That is why we are right, the people, all the people, the people who are here and the people who are out, when we adopt rules like this comprehensive anti-corruption plan, because we are responding to one of the biggest concerns that citizens have, that people have, that we have all the people, that we have all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Floriano. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u212	Let's start voting. They are numerous, I say so so that you have patience. We've halved the time to vote, I'm telling you to be careful. Draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr Baldoví. Amendments 7, 13, 32, 51, 53, 57, 60-62 and 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 119 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u213	They're rejected. Amendments 9 and 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 32 against, 277 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u214	They're rejected. Amendments 10 and 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 127 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u215	They're rejected. Amendments 14 and 33. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 11 against, 178 abstentions, 127.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u216	They're rejected. Amendment 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 24 against, 278 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u217	It's rejected. Amendments 16, 17, 31, 35, 40 to 44, 56, 58 and 70 to 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 19 against, 180 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u218	They're rejected. Amendments 18 and 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 32 against, 279 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u219	They're rejected. Amendment 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 11 against, 278 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u220	It's rejected. Amendment 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 34 against, 179 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u221	It's rejected. Amendment 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 115 against, 180 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u222	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Baldoví's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 20 against, 278 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u223	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Oramas. Amendments 75 and 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 119 against, 179 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u224	They're rejected. Amendment 78. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 34 against, 180 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u225	It's rejected. Amendments 79 and 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 21 against, 180 abstentions, 117.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u226	They're rejected. Amendments 80 and 92. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 12 against, 181 abstentions, 126.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u227	They're rejected. Amendment 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 35 against, 277 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u228	It's rejected. Amendments 82, 85, 89 and 94. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 13 against, 279 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u229	They're rejected. Amendments 83, 84 and 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 22 against, 278 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u230	They're rejected. Amendment 87. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 35 against, 279 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u231	It's rejected. Amendment 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 7 against, 194 abstentions, 116.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u232	It's rejected. The rest of Mrs Oramas' amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 21 against, 279 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u233	They're rejected. Amendments also by the Joint Group, by Mrs Fernández Davila. Amendments 592, 601, 607 and 614. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 117 against, 187 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u234	They're rejected. Amendments 593-597, 599, 600, 603 and 611-613. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 138 against 181; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u235	They're rejected. Amendments 598 and 608. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 21 against, 276 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u236	They're rejected. Amendments 602, 609 and 615. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 21 against, 183 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u237	They're rejected. Amendment 604. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 21 against, 278 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u238	It's rejected. Amendments 605 and 610. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 35 against, 278 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u239	They're rejected. Mrs Fernández's amendments remain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 21 against, 279 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u240	They're rejected. Amendments from the Joint Group, Mr Tardà. Amendments 302, 303, 305 to 315, 317 to 319, 326, 333, 339, 346, 393 and 394. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 138 against, 182 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u241	They're rejected. Amendments 316 and 332. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 34 against, 280 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u242	They're rejected. Amendments 320 to 323, 341, 351, 352 and 396. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 119 against, 185 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u243	They're rejected. Amendment 324. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 33 against, 185 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u244	It's rejected. Amendments 325, 328, 334 to 338, 344, 350, 354, 356, 357 and 366 to 374. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 182 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u245	They're rejected. Amendments 330 and 331. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 31 against, 279 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u246	They're rejected. Amendments 342 and 343. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 32 against, 182 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u247	They're rejected. Amendment 345. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 25 against, 280 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u248	It's rejected. Amendment 347. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 195 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u249	It's rejected. Amendments 348 and 349. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 23 against, 195 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u250	They're rejected. Amendments 363 and 365. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 37 against, 183 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u251	They're rejected. Amendment 376. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 25 against, 182 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u252	It's rejected. Amendments 377 and 378. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 25 against, 278 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u253	They're rejected. Amendment 379. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 38 against, 180 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u254	It's rejected. Amendments 380 to 386. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 280 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u255	They're rejected. Amendment 387 and 388. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour; 19 against 181; 119 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u256	They're rejected. Amendments 389 to 391. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 125 against, 181 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u257	They're rejected. Amendment 395. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 178 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u258	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 278 abstentions 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u259	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Group Firstly, Amendments 209, 214, 215 and 226. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 132 against, 182 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u260	They're rejected. Amendments 212, 218, 232, 244, 249, 251, 254, 255, 258 to 260, 262, 292 and 301. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 35 against, 182 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u261	They're rejected. Amendments 213, 219, 220, 222, 223, 225, 228, 233, 241, 243, 245, 246, 256, 257, 263, 273, 287 to 289, 295 and 298. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 130 against, 183 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u262	They're rejected. Amendment 216, 224, 230, 240 and 265. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour; 36; 181 against; 108 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u263	They're rejected. Amendments 229, 269 and 270. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 26 against, 190 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u264	They're rejected. Amendments 231, 248, 250, 252 and 253. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 26 against, 181 abstentions, 116.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u265	They're rejected. Amendment 268. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 34 against, 278 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u266	It's rejected. Amendment 271. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 191 abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u267	It's rejected. Amendments 275 to 285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 35 against, 285 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u268	They're rejected. Remaining amendments to the PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 34 against, 280 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u269	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendments 516 and 574. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 6 against, 289 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u270	They're rejected. Amendments 517, 531, 532, 544, 546-549, 551, 556, 562, 563 and 578-580. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 6 against, 180 abstentions, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u271	They're rejected. Amendments 590 and 591. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 5 against, 281 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u272	They're rejected. Amendment 519. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 18 against, 278 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u273	It's rejected. Amendment 520. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 5 against, 280 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u274	It's rejected. Amendments 527, 553, 564-567, 575 and 576. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 5 against, 277 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u275	They're rejected. Amendments 533-535, 545, 554, 555, 577, 581 and 589. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 16 against, 182 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u276	They're rejected. Amendment 536. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 5 against, 193 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u277	It's rejected. Amendment 537. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 5 against, 191 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u278	It's rejected. Amendment 550. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 24 against, 181 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u279	It's rejected. Amendment 552. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 36 against, 183 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u280	It's rejected. Amendment 557. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 25 against, 181 abstentions 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u281	It's rejected. Amendments 558 to 561. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 6 against, 181 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u282	They're rejected. Amendments 570, 571 and 573. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 5 against, 294 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u283	They're rejected. Amendment 572. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 23 against, 289 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u284	It's rejected. Amendment 586. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 13 against, 181 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u285	It's rejected. Amendment 587. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 13 against, 181 abstentions, 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u286	It's rejected. Amendment 588. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 5 against, 280 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u287	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 14 against, 278 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u288	They're rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. Amendments 104, 106, 109, 110, 114 to 124, 140, 142, 144, 148 to 150, 153, 170, 174, 179 to 183, 193, 197 to 204, 206 and 207. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 18 against, 183 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u289	They're rejected. Amendments 105, 108, 111, 112, 143, 172, 175 to 177 and 189 to 192. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 139 against 177; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u290	They're rejected. Amendments 113, 152, 171, 173, 184 to 186, 194 to 196, 205 and 208. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u291	They're rejected. Amendments 125, 146 and 147. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 33 against, 180 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u292	They're rejected. Amendment 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 33 against, 279 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u293	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 18 against, 277 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u294	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group Amendments 397, 398, 400, 402, 411 to 413, 420, 422, 423, 426, 459, 460, 462 to 466, 468, 470, 471, 473 to 476, 479 to 482, 484 to 489, 498 to 500, 507, 510 to 512, 514 and 515. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 130 against, 181 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u295	They're rejected. Amendments 401, 403 to 407, 409, 417 to 419, 421, 424, 436 and 469. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 120 against, 180 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u296	They're rejected. Amendments 410, 477, 478, 483 and 508. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 21 against, 279 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u297	They're rejected. Amendments 414, 430, 432-435, 467 and 472. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 34 against, 182 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u298	They're rejected. Amendments 415, 416, 425, 438-456 and 504. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 21 against, 286 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u299	They're rejected. Amendments 427, 428, 431, 437, 490 and 501. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 22 against, 180 abstentions, 116.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u300	They're rejected. Amendments 457, 495 and 505. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 119 against, 189 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u301	They're rejected. Amendments 492-494 and 502. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 34 against, 182 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u302	They're rejected. Rest of Convergence and Union amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 32 against, 278 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u303	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments 616, 618, 620, 625, 628, 631, 633, 646, 648, 668, 669, 671, 672, 679, 680, 683, 692-695, 711, 730, 737, 738, 740, 771, 773 and 774. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 133 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u304	They're rejected. Amendment 621. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 185 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u305	It's rejected. Amendment 622. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 109 against, 186 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u306	It's rejected. Amendments 649 to 653, 688 and 753. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 105 against, 180 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u307	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 117 against, 181 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u308	They're rejected. We are now voting on the opinion with the corrections that have been distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 182 against, 143 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u309	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u310	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, as being of the same organic nature. There are four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 4 telematics votes, 331; 184 plus 2 telematics votes, 186; 142 plus 2 telematics votes, 144; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u311	It was adopted. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE CONTROL OF ECONOMIC-FINANCING ACTIVITY OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/2007 OF 4 JULY, ON THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES; ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/2002 OF 27 JUNE, OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, AND ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1982 OF 12 MAY, OF THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS. [[File number 121/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u312	Draft Organic Law on the Control of the Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties, amending Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the Financing of Political Parties, Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June 2002 on Political Parties and Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May 1982 of the Court of Auditors. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, by Mr Salvador. Firstly, Amendment 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 7 against, 293 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u313	It's rejected. Amendments 32 and 33. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 13 against, 279 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u314	They're rejected. Amendment 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 10 against, 293 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u315	It's rejected. Amendments 35 and 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 6 against, 183 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u316	They're rejected. Amendments 36 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 6 against, 278 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u317	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Group, by Mrs Fernández Davila. Firstly, Amendment 124. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 19 against, 278 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u318	It's rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 21 against, 276 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u319	They're rejected. The whole vote on Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 25 against, 280 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u320	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Group, PNV. Firstly, Amendments 157 and 158. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 30 against, 284 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u321	They're rejected. Amendment 174. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 33 against, 278 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u322	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Basque Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 41 against, 276 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u323	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendments 12, 19, 22 and 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 6 against, 281 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u324	They're rejected. Amendment 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 13 against, 182 abstentions, 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u325	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 13 against, 278 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u326	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Plural Left'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 25 against, 182 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u327	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. First, Amendments Nos 83 to 85 and 90. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 23 against, 283 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u328	They're rejected. Amendments 87, 101, 105 and 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 19 against, 292 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u329	They're rejected. Amendments 104, 106, 109, 110, 113 and 114. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 30 against, 187 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u330	They're rejected. Rest of Convergence and Union amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 31 against, 283 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u331	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. First of all, Amendment 144. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 116 against, 180 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u332	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 115 against, 182 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u333	They're rejected. We voted on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 197 against, 30 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u334	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u335	Overall vote on the draft organic law on the control of the economic and financial activity of political parties. Four telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 4 telematics votes, 330; in favour, 203 plus 2 telematics votes, 205; against, 26; abstentions, 97 plus 2 telematics votes, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-21-CD150121.u336	It was adopted. The meeting rose. It was three and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
