ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u1	The meeting was resumed. As there are votes on organic law, I shall indicate as an hour before which there will be no votes at eleven and a half; that is, before eleven and a half there will be no votes. I hope we get close to that hour, but we would always vote after that.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u2	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2015 of 22 March for the urgent reform of the vocational training system for employment in the workplace. To present this royal decree, the Minister of Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to present, on behalf of the Government, the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2015 for the urgent reform of the vocational training system for employment in the field of employment, a Royal Decree which was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 20 March. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial project for our country which has important strategic objectives, the first of them, and most importantly, to promote the creation of stable and quality jobs, as well as to contribute to the competitiveness of our companies. It also complements this initial objective of guaranteeing the right to permanent training throughout working life in order to provide greater employability and career advancement opportunities for all Spanish workers. In other words, we address with this project some of the things that most concern and interest citizens: employment, the right to training and opportunities for the development of the unemployed and also workers. It is a matter of realising a long-awaited reflection and demanded by the scientific community that specializes in public policies, because training must also be a powerful tool at the service of the employability and competitiveness of our economy. It is about deepening the new culture of employment, guaranteeing the right to training introduced in the 2012 labour reform because, as we have said many times since the government, Spain must and must compete in talent and human capital, not in low wages. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, the reform is the result of a broad process of dialogue and participation with the social partners; dialogue and participation that began in the pact of 29 July 2014. The reform presented today by the Government responds to the commitment and objectives of the Moncloa Pact with the Workers' Commissions and UGT, CEOE and Cepyme. Let us discuss, ladies and gentlemen, for months until exhaustion because we were all, all, aware of the need to continue to transform a model that has allowed the training of many workers in our country for more than three decades to come into force. Many workers have been trained: 4 million are currently being trained, but in 1992 only 200,000 were being trained. There have also been many companies that go to training: in 2004, a decade ago, 33,000 companies used training in Spain, today they do more than 400,000; therefore the model has had a progressive implementation throughout the productive fabric. Thus, the quantitative development of the training model has been clear, however, during all these years of reflection the qualitative aspects of the training model revealed important weaknesses; this reform wants to meet and wants to break with these weaknesses of the model. On the other hand, the training model is built in a competitive framework where we share competences in this area with the Autonomous Communities and the General Administration of the State. It is an institutional architecture that has sometimes made strategic planning difficult and, most importantly, it has suffered from an integrated system of permanent information so that we could know in real time what training was being done in Spain, what workers were being trained and what subjects they were doing at every moment. On the other hand, the system had quality assessment elements, as noted in the last report of the Tripartite Foundation, which recognises that the impact of training on the productive fabric is limited. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, we could not be satisfied with a model that neither transforms reality nor conforms to a system that impacts the economy in a timid or medium way. What we need is powerful, transformative and ambitious training at the service of workers and at the service of businesses. That is the diagnosis, and this was reflected in the repeated surveys of beneficiaries of the training done by the Tripartite Foundation in the years 2010 and 2011. The survey said - and I want to underline its results - that six out of ten people claimed that they had not acquired any new skills or skills, six out of ten. Seven out of ten respondents did not see their ability to enter the labour market increased, seven out of ten. But most importantly, only 17% of respondents acknowledged receiving job-related training that they later found; i.e. the degree of penetration into the insertion was very limited. If we analyzed the formative contents of the previous model, there was quite a difference between the need for the productive tissue and the courses that were taught. For example, in 2012 45% of courses were related to sociocultural services and to the community, while in a country like ours, with the importance of tourism or hospitality, courses related to these subjects represented only 4%. If we see the weight of new segments such as computer science or communications, only 9.4% of the courses in this field of computer science and communications were carried out in that year. Therefore, it appears that the courses did not provide a real response to the peremptory needs of the productive fabric. Moreover, and it is important, the difference between having or not having training is key when it comes to finding a job, maintaining it or improving what is relatively good. I will give you an example of what I was saying to you earlier. During the crisis, we talked about the years 2007-2013, among workers who only had primary education, unemployment rose by more than 50%; however, in the same period of crisis 2007-2013, those workers who had higher education, higher qualifications, not only did not go to unemployment, but among them increased the occupation above 3%. In other words, those more trained workers found employment even in a very difficult situation of crisis. Therefore, the impact of training on the possibilities of maintaining employment, of integrating into the labour market is fundamental. It is an important element that leads us today to present this structural reform for the present and for the future of our country. At this point we will do wrong if we look elsewhere or if we fall into condescension that it only harms those who are actually the most vulnerable, those workers who today have little or low qualifications in our country. We also know that this trend will be accentuated in the future, as can be seen from the European Commission's forecasts that more than 19 million high-skilled jobs will be created in the European environment by 2025. However, this report by the European Commission already recognises that employment opportunities will fall in the middle or low-skilled segments. Therefore, as Spaniards, as Members, we cannot lose a minute in training our workers so that they can compete in a more and more global world where it is essential to have a great qualification. On the contrary, if we neglect these changes in the labour market, we will be condemning millions of people to precariousness or, even worse, unemployment, something that would be irresponsible to us in the face of Spanish society. It was said at the beginning of the intervention: if we want to compete in talent, if we want as a government, as a Spanish House of Representatives or as a society to bet on creating quality jobs, fighting inequality and promoting social cohesion, we have to use 100% of the tools to transform a model so that workers have all the opportunities. We cannot conform, as I told you, to public policies that work half-way, that do not give of themselves all the potential they have to give opportunities to people. That is why we are playing with the opportunities of those people who are able to opt for better jobs and better wages, do not do so because they do not have that quality training. In addition, if we analyze labour market data, the average salary at the level of training in our country ranges from €1,347 for workers with lower education, only secondary education, and, instead, exceeds an average of €2,400 for those with higher education. Therefore, a better paid job also has to do with quality training. In order to improve training, it is necessary to adapt it to the economic and business structure of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, we have two types of training in the field of employment in our country. One is that which is carried out in the field of the company, which we call demand or bonus training, that which is done by means of subsidies to social security contributions. The level of bonus depends on the size of the company, and ranges from 50% for those companies with more than 250 workers, to a hundred percent for small and medium-sized enterprises, those micro-symes have a credit insured per worker of 420 euros. But the extent, the penetration of training in companies has an inverse relation to size, that is, in companies with more than 250 workers, the level of penetration of training exceeds 90% - we have achieved the objectives we have set ourselves from the beginning -; however, among companies with less than 10 workers, which are the vast majority of companies in this country, the level of penetration of training is less than 26 %. We must therefore continue to bet on training in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is where we have the greatest weakness. During 2014, more than two million workers were trained in the field of enterprise in our country, in this model called enhanced training or demand formation. The other model, the model of supply or subsidized training, is the priority model for training the unemployed, although there is also a small part of training that goes to the unemployed. The model of supply formation, of subsidized training, is the one that corresponds mainly to the autonomous communities, although we recognize that there is a smaller part that directly performs, from the General Administration of the State, the Tripartite Foundation. In 2013, the last data we have can be approved, it was 245,000 workers who were trained in the form of supply training. I would also like to point out that the origin of the funds for training is varied. On the one hand, 0,6 % of the training fee is paid by companies, 0,1 % is paid by workers and there are contributions, either from public administrations or from the European Social Fund. In view of the distribution of training funds, we have the result that training within the company accounts for only 25% of the total training resources, the general government programmes of the State, 15% and the rest, 60%, are carried out in the autonomous sphere. In 2014 alone, EUR 2,280 million was earmarked for training. They represent a huge amount of resources that obliges us to work to improve the system so that it is more effective, of higher quality, more transparent and that it is evaluated, indeed, on a permanent basis. Ladies and gentlemen, we want the evaluation to be one of the keys to the model of the future, and we also want better coordination between the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain in the new model we want to implement. We want the relationship and coordinated work between government and autonomous communities in this new model to be respectful, scrupulously, with the competences of each, with the autonomous competences and the competences of the General Administration of the State. And we believe that there must also be deep coordination with all the actors involved, including the social partners, in this new training model. Therefore, more evaluation and better coordination to meet the strategic objectives that I pointed out to them at the beginning of my intervention. In this new model, we want to place at the heart of the reform workers, whether they are employed or temporarily unemployed, and above all, and also businesses, in order to achieve this higher level of efficiency, competitiveness and transparency in the management of public funds. This new model will apply to all public administrations throughout the national territory. The social partners will continue to play an important role in the design, planning and programming of all training because they are the representatives of enterprises and workers, who are best aware of the needs of the productive fabric. But we want it to be an efficient system, for market needs to be prospected and detected, and for us to be able to anticipate those needs of the productive fabric. A country with the high unemployment rate that still has Spain cannot be allowed to have jobs every year. That is because we are not able to anticipate the new needs of the productive fabric. There is also a need for a multi-annual planning scenario, which does not exist so far, so that training can be continuous throughout the worker's working life. As the 2012 labour reform established, we are going to implement the training account, establishing an account associated with each worker, as there is today a social security number associated with each of the employed, which accompanies him throughout his working life and where he will be certified all and every one of the training he has done throughout his professional career. It will also rely on teletraining as an instrument that can provide the system with greater efficiency and flexibility and on training within the company to make it more competitive, more flexible and appropriate, indeed, to its needs. We are going to make an effort with the social partners and public administrations to implement it in those companies, as I told them, which are smaller, where the level of penetration of training is still insufficient. On the other hand, in the area of the management of this subsidized training, of supply training, this is where we want to make a radical change. The resources now, with this new model, will compete with one hundred percent; in this way, the centers will access these training calls, either by the General Administration of the State or by the autonomous communities, on equal terms, and it will be the market that will choose those who do so with the highest quality. In the field of training for the unemployed, we have introduced another important innovation: the training check. With this check, an unemployed person can freely choose the place where he or she wants to form and it will be the corresponding Administration, either the autonomous community or the General Administration of the State, which will then pay that training to the centre that the unemployed person has previously chosen. Another notable change in subsidized training is that from now on only 25% of the funding for training centres can be anticipated before the start of training. Up to now, an advance of up to 100 per cent could be made in a pre-financed way, and that, ladies and gentlemen, and we must admit it with honesty, has led to irregularities in many autonomous communities that we must and must avoid in the future. On the other hand, a permanent evaluation process is established so that we all bear in mind that the main thing, the main thing, the key thing is the quality of training if we want to maintain jobs, if we want to promote jobs and, above all, if we want workers to improve in their professional career. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be zero tolerance for fraud; we will therefore ensure that every euro that goes to training actually goes to training. In order to achieve this objective, there will be two major developments in the reform: a special inspection unit, within the scope of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and in turn the penalties will be raised for those companies that use the funds irregularly, for example, that company that does so badly for five years will not be able to receive public resources to provide training in the future. In addition, there will be an integrated training and information system between autonomous communities and the Government. This is important, ladies and gentlemen, because we need to know at all times, whether we want to be effective and whether we want to react promptly, what training is being given, what workers are being trained and what those workers are being trained at every moment in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, as an example, the Court of Auditors, in its 2014 audit report, acknowledged that one person in Spain in that year, in 2014, had completed more than one hundred courses. This, which is clearly an irregularity, with that integrated information system would not happen again in the future. We therefore need to be able with this new model to have a system that promotes more transparency, more control, more quality and continuous evaluation of training, and most importantly, that workers have better employability and businesses improve their competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, human capital is the most competitive element of the present and future of Spain. It is our duty to improve this system of vocational training for employment, if we are to compete in talent in the medium and long term. That is why the Government has adopted this royal decree-law because we have not a minute to lose, and I also encourage you, now that the parliamentary process of the text is under way, because we wish to treat it as a bill, to make contributions that improve the original text. Ladies and gentlemen, employment is being created in Spain today, and more quality employment is being created in Spain today. We still have a long way to go because there are still many Spaniards who do not have opportunities. We have just seen the labour force survey at nine in the morning and, despite the seasonality of the first quarter, we can point out that the number of jobs created in the last year already exceeds half a million people, something that has not happened since 2007: in the last year more than 500,000 jobs were created. The annual drop in unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, has been 488,700 people; the best data in the series since 2012. But most importantly, in annual terms, the rate of job creation is accelerating from 2.53% to 2.97%, and also the largest increase in employment since 2007. More quality employment is also being created every day. In the last year there are 289,700 indefinite jobs, i.e. almost 60% of all jobs created were stable jobs. But without any doubt, ladies and gentlemen, we have a long way to go because there are still many people in Spain who do not have employment opportunities. The structural reform that we are proposing today to Spanish society as a presentation of this reform in Congress is a key element for workers to have more opportunities and for the unemployed to return to the labour market as soon as possible and to have the opportunities that they deserve and that Spanish society has to give them. I encourage you from here to make constructive contributions and to be able to implement at this new stage a reform crucial to the competitiveness of our country, which is that competitiveness in talent and human capital that must be our present and our future. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. The intervention of the groups in fixing positions begins. Firstly, Mr Baldoví has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, constructive contributions in this House have a very short flight, because your absolute majority is responsible for not flying very high. A new normative imposition and a new royal decree; a decree that lacks trade union consensus, so that, in addition to this Parliament, it turns its back on the social side, on the trade unions, which are a fundamental part of vocational training for employment, very much in line with this government, which, once in a while, proves incapable of consensus and confuses interested consultation with negotiation. To inform trade unions about what they are going to do and negotiate are absolutely different things. Turning our backs on the representation of workers has implications for the quality of the proposed legislation. Both business organisations and trade unions know the needs of the sectors, the problems of competitiveness of companies and the specific need to acquire or update workers' knowledge. In fact, this is acknowledged by the very statement of motives in a more cynical boast. Then why turn your back on them? Why deny them in this royal decree the role they do play in other countries around us? You give the real protagonists of the production system - business and trade union organizations - a purely consultative role. Public training centres, universities, vocational training centres and adult education centres continue to be relegated to a subsidiary role, far behind the private training centres and entities, which take over the market for training for employment. In the same vein, they boost improved training, organised directly by companies, which already receives the largest budget, 63 % of the total for training for the employed, with almost EUR 600 million. They want to further enhance the private model, where the profit of the entrepreneur is the leitmotiv of the course and not so much the real training of unemployed or workers. On the other hand, this royal decree maintains the training check for unemployed workers, despite the problems it has caused and its poor outcome in other countries. They consider as formative action an hour, when before the reference was six hours. As a result of this royal decree, all the training of public employees is at risk this year. They have also failed to fulfil their public commitment and the Court of Auditors' request that training funds should be renewed as they are finalists and should only be devoted to training and not to other purposes that have nothing to do with training. In short, this decree has again the short wings because it does not solve the problem, because it is born without the necessary consensus and because it will not have it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, both in the explanatory statement and in your speech this morning you have endeavoured to say that the urgency of this royal decree is motivated by the interest of the Government in creating jobs and in preventing the perpetuation of workers in the unemployment situation. It has come to say that it is the concern of this Government to improve the wage conditions of workers; this morning it has said so. I ask you if really when you, the government, say these things you think someone can believe them, especially when you have legislated things like labor reform. Without going any further, Minister, this morning thousands of subcontractors and subcontractors working for Telefónica will be demonstrating on the streets of Madrid, living semi-slavery working conditions; trained, highly trained, minister, almost milleurists or barely milleurists who, moreover, are working at a standstill. Meanwhile, the beneficiaries, the shareholders of Telefónica, are sharing millions of profits. This is a consequence of their labour reform. These are the consequences of all the policies of this Government relating to employment and the conditions of workers. Pay attention to these workers who are going to express themselves today because it is the demonstration of how the workers are in the Spanish state. Today comes with a real decree - again out of urgency, although we do not see the urgency - which, moreover, does not count on the agreement of the social agents. It is not surprising, Madam Minister, that agreements have not been reached because one thing is to act on fraud or against fraud - which, indeed, there is - by controlling and monitoring the various expenditure and management of courses, and another very different is free competition, by depriving social agents of the role of main actors in a training activity of workers, whether unemployed or active. Minister, you know that, in accordance with Article 83.3 of the Workers' Statute, the State has an obligation to negotiate with trade unions and employers labour matters such as the one we are dealing with. By the way, Minister, also with representative unions such as the IGC, which are not state-level, but which have participated in state agreements in formation continues and which this government has excluded from negotiations at all times. You have spoken of better coordination with the Autonomous Communities. Madam Minister, from Article 1 to the second transitional provision this royal decree invades exclusive competences in the execution of training, thus deepening the recentralisation that, by the way, the previous government has already begun. Do not forget, Mrs Báñez, that, while the Constitutional Court has established in relation to this matter that the normative capacity of the State is the responsibility of the State, the executive is of the Autonomous Communities, and this royal decree seems more than a rule, a regulation, which would be the one that would have to be developed by the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, Madam Minister, it is not surprising that the consensus was not reached and we doubt that a real decree of these characteristics which does not have that consensus, which does not have at least some agreement between the parties that have to develop it, can really be an effective element for what you have said about training, raising competitiveness, etc. Of course, as this royal decree-law stands and as it stands, we believe that it will not serve to put an end to the corruption or fraud that may occur in the field of vocational training, because, in any case, that free competition that you recognise here will increase it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u8	Mr Quadra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u9	Ladies, gentlemen, one more new decree-law. In spite of the fact that it is a matter of a comprehensive reform of the system and that important laws are being amended, we have resorted to the procrastination of the decree-law, which I would say. This is even more serious given the situation that exists here in Congress; the majority of the PP is false, it is being said all the polls on elections that are being conducted that claim that a quarter, a third and even half of the seats today are being occupied by okupas, because this does not correspond to the reality of society. From this point of view, the anti-democratic roller that is constantly applying the PP in this Congress is not only anti-democratic, but is fraudulent, as is the government. Let's get on it. Amaiur denies the largest, first of all, that this vocational training for employment can be given directly or indirectly, that it can become a loot in the hands of the private companies that already exist and that they will exist in a more accentuated way to be made with a large slice of public money. On the contrary, Amaiur defends the public nature of this vocational training for employment and that its management and management be carried out exclusively by the various public administrations in the different autonomous communities in collaboration and in conjunction with the existing trade union, social and business organizations, thus closing the transition to private activity that works for profit, as was done twenty years ago with the emergence of Hobetuz, in the Basque Autonomous Community. This training must be carried out mainly in public institutions and carried out by public teachers as well, taking advantage of the synergies that exist between this training for employment and the existing regulated vocational training in the field of public education. The minister not only doesn't listen to me, but she's looking the other way... Anyway, this is what there is. Therefore, Amaiur rejects the deepening of the privatization path that this decree-law drives. Unfortunately, we know her in other areas of work. Only a couple of months ago the Mutual Law was adopted here, which made available to private mutual employers an area as important as that of occupational health to be managed in accordance with business interests. Mr Baldoví has already referred to the training check, so I will not go into it. In any case, let no one be duped, because Amaiur is not in favour of the current regime, and I say this for several reasons: Because this is an absolute monopoly regime of this matter that has been left in the hands of the large trade union and employers' organizations that exist at the state level, generally marginalizing the rest. Because this in practice is implying a scandalous over-financing of this great employer and of these great unions, who also take advantage of all this to carry out a client activity, the practice of a clientelism to denounce. Finally, because it is evident that the set of all these characteristics makes this an area in which the trophies and corrupts of all kinds have come out. Amaiur calls, first of all, for this vocational training to respond directly to the needs existing in each territory, in each nation, economic, business, social and trade union realities existing there that make up their own frameworks. We demand sovereignty in this matter, because we are of age to manage exclusively, 100%, this, according to our own political, institutional, trade union and social majorities that exist there and that are very different from those existing at the state level. And to this extent, Mr President, we can only denounce the competitive and economic-financial strangulation that has been experienced in the Basque Autonomous Community with Hobetuz and the total marginalization that is being practised in the Foral Community of Navarre in this contubernation between the PP Government, the Navarra employer and the large state trade unions, which are marginalising absolutely the rest of the trade union forces. I conclude by expressing from here the solidarity of Amaiur with all the workers of Movistar, who in these days are mobilizing throughout the State in defense of their jobs and their working conditions and wages.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Quadra. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today is Thursday, we are in a plenary session at the first hour of the morning, you have indeed been right: it is a validation of a royal decree-law. This bad practice of the Government has been its usual behaviour: first they pass a law within the Government that automatically enters into force and subsequently is complied with the formalism of passing it through the House. It will be because of that this is the Legislature. We can agree, Madam Minister, that the vocational training system needs to be reformed, but it is no more urgent to do so today than to have done it a few months or even years ago, since training is a key tool for job creation and economic growth. However, having waited until today, it could have taken a little longer for your approval to treat it as a bill, even though you have said that you are going to do so, and so a little more political leadership has been given to this House, which is missing. Now you tell us, Minister, as I imagine the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group will tell us, that they are going to process it as a bill, that your will is to obtain a broad consensus and that we do not worry because you have no intention of interfering with this law in the areas of competence of any autonomous community. I do not sincerely doubt your intentions and your goodwill, but I must tell you that the Royal Decree-Law is already in force and that from the legal and political point of view the interference, the competitive attack and the lack of respect for the existing framework has already occurred, and that is what I have to denounce and what we cannot accept in any way from the Basque Parliamentary Group. If the competition aspects are properly corrected at the end of the process, and others, we will be able to reconsider our position on this. To that end - I am already in advance - we will be tabling partial amendments, amendments which we consider appropriate, and we hope that we can reach an agreement and change our position, as I said to you, Minister. I therefore take up your proposal for a sincere negotiation and I hope that I can work with your parliamentary group, although I really hope that this important task will be carried out by my colleague, Mr Olabarría, who is an expert on this subject. We can agree on many of the contents proposed in the Royal Decree-Law and above all on the need to address a profound change in vocational training. Vocational training, as you know, has been, is and will be a key tool for job creation and competitiveness gains in Euskadi, and this must also be done in other areas. As you said, Minister, we have just heard the data from the first quarter of the EPA, and as the data, as you look at it, say one thing or another, you have given us an optimistic view, but the teletype I have received from El País says: The unemployment rate has risen to 23.78. Moreover, this increase has been not by creation, but by destruction of employment, because 114,300 jobs have been destroyed. The Basque Group does not want this to be the case, but this is the fact and what shows is that, despite all that is said, essentially by the Government, the rate of growth of the Spanish economy has to be called into question a little bit. In other words, we do not have the feeling that this growth of the economy can be sustainable over time; there are still fundamental economic problems that can frustrate growth and job creation. [[The lady]] In fact, we also knew yesterday that five communities of the Spanish State are at the head of unemployment in Europe. I believe that the economic situation is still worrying. In addition, Minister, as you have acknowledged, the system that has been functioning so far is clearly improved, as it has not proved adequate or provided what was expected of it. It has in many cases become a waste of public resources without obtaining the required qualification. We can even share the idea of the competition regime or the training check, to mention only two relevant areas of the reform proposed. I am not going to go into these details because what I want to highlight is the competitive attack that takes place under this rule. That is why I will stop on the competition issues, so that the Government will know those aspects that most bother us with the royal decree-law, so that we can reach the agreement that we hope will be reached. I won't do it with too much detail because I don't have enough time, but I will point out those most important points. The Royal Decree-Law 4/2015 of 22 March, as I said to you, involves a real depoliation of the competences transferred to the autonomous community in the field of vocational training for employment. The content of the Agreement on the transfer of functions and services to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with regard to the implementation of labour legislation in the fields of employment, employment and vocational training for employment carried out by the Public Service for State Employment is violated. In particular, in point (c) of the agreement, vocational training for employment, all the implementing functions in the field of vocational training for employment that the State Public Employment Service had been developing are transferred. These functions now belong to the Basque Autonomous Community. I'm not going to list the details, but in the transfer decree are all the detailed tasks. The Basque Government, according to the transfer, will also exercise within its territory the functions assigned to the Public Service of State Employment in the commissions for the monitoring of employment contracts, as well as the execution functions relating to the fulfilment of the obligations of employers and workers and, where appropriate, the sanctioning power in the field of employment. These powers are those specifically attributed to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and in this case they seek to be rescued, in whole or in part, by the General Administration of the State. Through the Royal Decree-Law, far-reaching reforms are being undertaken to modify the vocational training system as we have conceived so far and a constitutional doctrine that confers on the State exclusive competence in the field of training is strengthened. This is reflected in the explanatory statement without considering the competence to implement autonomous labour legislation and active policies. In this regard, it follows the path of Royal Decree 3/2011 on improving employability, used by the Basque Government, where a process of centralization and standardization of training policies was initiated. This centralisation is particularly relevant in the competence conferred on the State to elaborate the functions of prospecting for the needs of the labour market, the detection of employment gaps affecting the entire territory of the State, as well as the explicit invocation of the financial unit which must characterize the development of vocational training plans, which was already implied in the 2014-2016 Employment Strategy. Another innovation is the incorporation of the training cheque, the design and characteristics of which are attributed to the General Administration of the State, as well as the determination of the objectives for which it is created. The Ministry of Employment and Social Security will design multi-annual strategic scenarios based on its self-proclaimed exclusive competence, although the license is allowed to state that this configuration will be made in a cooperative and concurrent manner with the autonomous communities, a clearly uncertain statement as long as the resources and mechanisms of action attributed to itself by the General Administration of the State are observed. As a last relevant development, the social partners were expropriated from the powers they exercised exclusively in the field of continuing vocational training through the Forcem and in Euskadi, not without problems, Hobetuz, an amendment based on the presumption that this training system was a fraud bag. All of the above, in our view, is devoid of content the competences in the field of active employment policies transferred to Euskadi in 2010 and which are disaggregated in the minutes, as I said, signed on 22 September of that year, denying territorial planning in its own field of vocational training to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, denying the ability to assess, monitor and control the training of demand and supply attributed to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, denying also the registration, accreditation, registration of professional training employees attributed to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and denying the issue of professional certificates attributed also to that Autonomous Community. And all these specifically transferred competencies are incardinated in state employment promotion strategies on the basis of the prospecting that the State performs exclusively of the employability needs and on the basis of a powerful invocation of the financial unit of the plans that affects the financing system provided for in the Economic Concert of the competence of active policies. The royal decree - I am finishing, Madam President - imposes on us the plans, the strategy, the prospecting, the cheque formation. We are emptied, I insist, of the content of competences already transferred provided for in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy and this will, as an inevitable effect, cause the devaluation of the training plans that already operate in Euskadi with proven effectiveness, which are diffused within a series of state plans on whose effectiveness and philosophy we have some reservations. We can also say that the Royal Decree ignores the fact that the system of quota subsidies is transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community and that the mechanism of operation with these subsidies is already in place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u12	Mr. Azpiazu, you'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u13	I will finish, Madam President, shortly. We could keep talking about the trophies that the royal decree makes in the competition field, but I am not going to do it. With my intervention, I hope that I have at least transferred to the Government and its parliamentary group the need to carry out a review of this royal decree-law so that, when the law is passed, after its processing in the General Courts as a draft, the issues to which I have referred have been resolved on the basis of the amendments that we are submitting. I appeal to your goodwill, Minister, today expressed and hope for a satisfactory end. Meanwhile, and since the royal decree-law is in force, you cannot count on our support. We will vote against validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Progress Union and Democracy has given great importance throughout this Parliament to vocational training for employment because in a country like ours it is objectively very important. We are in a country with a large number of unemployed people, including young people who have often left the education system and have serious training problems and others who have training problems because, although they did, it is deteriorating because they are in a long-term unemployment situation and we must not forget that many unemployed people come from one sector but will have to find employment in another. All this gives special importance to training. By the way, Minister, it does not seem that today's EPA data will end this situation. You've pulled your chest out of those data, but what appears in them is a slight rise in the unemployment rate, up to 23.7%, more than double the EU average. As we have given so much importance to training for employment, we have put forward many initiatives. We made an inquiry in the plenary - which you will recall - followed by a motion and different points of that motion were adopted. And we have tabled two non-legislative proposals on vocational training for employment, one on how it should be organised and the other on its content. We have also made a proposal for a single contract which also has a lot to do with these issues, because employees must also be trained and employees must have stability in employment if they are not, if they are weeks or months contracts, for many laws that we do training for low-skilled employees will receive. Therefore, we will appreciate this royal decree in the light of the model we have been proposing throughout the legislature; it will not be occurrences but evaluations. Before carrying out that assessment, I would like to make a prior warning. This reform of vocational training for employment cannot be used as an excuse for closing down in error an issue that comes from the past, which is the massive fraud that has occurred in training courses for employment. Of all the scandals that afflict our country, in our opinion, this is one of the most serious, because it is always ugly to steal but it is especially ugly to steal the training money for the unemployed. In this regard, I would like to recall that some points were adopted in the UPyD motion, such as an extraordinary review in all the autonomous communities of the files of the training courses because we feared that what happened in Madrid and Andalusia was the tip of the iceberg of a wider problem. As far as we know, this extraordinary review is still pending. All possibilities must be exhausted in demanding responsibility for such fraud and recovery to the extent possible of the amounts defrauded. Made this important warning, I shall evaluate the content of the royal decree. The first issue that we welcome is that training for employment should be given a greater legal status, which until now has been regulated simply by regulations, although, like other spokespersons, we regret that it is done with a real decree; we would have preferred it to be dealt with directly as a bill. I will group the matters included in this royal decree into five sections. Firstly, there is talk of planning vocational training for employment. This planning will be based on the forward-looking work of the Public Employment Service Occupation Observatory, which seems to us to be correct, which was proposed by my party. We also think it is right, and we also proposed, that social actors should have a role in this prospecting in this observatory. Social partners - trade unions, employers - must indeed play an important role in this planning for the future of vocational training for employment. The only objection we can make to this part of the royal decree is to point out the need to equip this observatory with the means. If you are going to see your role strengthened, if you are going to carry out this important task, we believe that today you do not have the necessary means. We also think it is right that there should be multi-annual planning, but once again we do not understand that things should be done ex novo, starting from scratch. There is already a Spanish activation strategy for employment, why not include this multi-annual planning within this existing strategy rather than outside it? The second issue dealt with in the Royal Decree is the coordination of the different administrations in this vocational training for employment. Here is some progress but timid, here is where we find important shortcomings and we believe that we could go much further. I'll give you a couple of examples. We are talking about the creation of a single portal. It seems good to us; you know that since the beginning of the legislature we have been protagonists proposing unique portals, but we hope that this unique portal is not like the single employment portal because for us a single portal is not simply a search engine, the unique portals have to have a higher level of integration. And another issue, and allow me, Minister, to draw your attention especially to it, is that it seems to us important that in this new model a standstill of an autonomous community can access formative actions of other autonomous communities because this is an important lack of our system. We must reduce, we must eliminate, in our view, the fragmentation of the system, and one of the undesirable effects of that fragmentation is that a stoppage of a community today cannot access formative actions of a neighbouring community. The third issue dealt with in the Royal Decree is who has to provide training. Here I will recognize two very important advances that go in the line we proposed and that we especially value: first, that there will be the same accreditation requirements for any entity; that the previous situation in which business and trade union organizations were exempt from that accreditation requirement will be brought to an end. We believe that this is a very important advance, linked to another very important advance that we also proposed: banning the subcontracting of training actions, because that subcontracting led to the initial selection being distorted and the control was very difficult. Therefore, two important advances - the same accreditation requirements for all entities and banning subcontracting - that go along the lines proposed by the Union Progress and Democracy in its initiatives. However, there is something in this section that we do not appreciate positively and that other speakers have already pointed out: the excessive role you play in private entities. In our model, public entities must make the most of themselves and they must give stability and permanence to the system, with the exception that these public entities can be complemented by private entities. But you give an excessive role to private entities and we do not see the sense that the Administration has to maintain a permanent private network of training centres; the permanent and protagonist must be the public and the private complement it legitimately, but not replace it, complement it. This public network would have more weight if parts of the regulated education system, the formal educational offer, were incorporated into it. This is particularly important in a country, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, where there is a serious problem of early abandonment of the education system; this regulated, formal education system cannot live outside vocational training for employment. Fourthly, who will be given this training, who will receive this training. We agree with the philosophy of increasing the choice of workers, but we do not agree that the right way to do this is through training checks, because checks have important problems, such as opening up a new path of fraud possibilities, which are difficult to control. We in our model would increase the ability of workers to choose, but in another way. In our model, the Employment Office would offer the worker, depending on his individual profile, a list of courses that can suit him and the worker could choose but within that list offered by the Employment Office and adapted to his training profile. This would give workers the choice of choice but would avoid the potential fraud problems involved in the cheque model. Fifth and final question: the content, the quality of the courses. Here we see important shortcomings. In our view, a final assessment of the skills acquired in public training centres should be implemented, a kind of final examination that confirms that these skills have been acquired. We should give greater prominence to certificates of professionalism; in the actual decree, progress is made but very timidly in that direction, and we think that the results of previous actions should be taken into account, but we believe that the demand of workers for a specific training activity should also be taken into account as an index of success and that these results should be public so that workers also take them into account in their ability to choose. In short, to explain the meaning of our vote, this royal decree represents an advance, incorporates parts of UPyD's proposals during the legislature, but there are important issues that remain out of the way, so at this point in the legislative process we are going to abstain and our hope, by appealing to the negotiating spirit of which the minister has spoken, is that some of these issues are incorporated into the bill and we can change this abstention by a positive vote. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the UI Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, go ahead and agree on the need to improve our vocational training system for employment, but we openly disagree that it is regulated by decree-law without a prior agreement, with a diagnosis that we do not share and with a content that is clearly improveable. This is a reform that does not have the necessary agreements; it is the first time in twenty-two years - it is true that there have been many meetings - that a regulation of training for employment comes to the House without the agreement of the social partners or the autonomous communities. The agreement is not a guarantee per se, but in a matter like this the agreement between representatives of workers, enterprises and autonomous communities should be a necessary and inexcusable condition for its success. We cannot share some of the elements of the diagnosis that is being made, and I have to say, as a critic, that it is important that things like these come before in an evaluation of the system to the House, an evaluation required of a minister that the more she talks about policy evaluation less practice. I would like to point out that if we had made that assessment, perhaps we would have explained to all the citizens of the country, and also to some of the Members of this House that in the time that this model has worked - twenty-two years - it has gone from 200,000 people who benefit from training to more than 4 million, which ultimately affects 478,000 companies. On the other hand, I think there have been too many people, and it seems to me that also at some point the Government, which has had an interest in mediating the ground for this reform with a very, very manicated diagnosis. It is true that today the Minister has modulated her presentation and, above all, cancelled the effect of the reprehensible presentation made by the Vice-President on the day of her approval in the Council of Ministers. It seems he was more concerned to help reflect on the Andalusians than to present his decree. What cannot be done is that from the examples of inefficiency and fraud that have occurred it is intended to extend them to the whole system, presenting a pathological picture of the training system for employment. Ladies and gentlemen, what some have done, interestingly - because there are interests behind that - is to present the situation of training as if it were describing the state of health of the population from the waiting room of an intensive unit of an acute hospital; of course, all about to die. Moreover, this diagnosis is based on a great falsehood which, by the way, seems to colonize also from the right to other people. The great falsehood that many people have bought is that this is a system controlled under monopoly by trade union and business organisations, which simply from the reading of the data is proved not to be so, because the training managed through the Tripartite Foundation barely reaches 10% of the total resources, while - and here is the data because here is the great challenge - the direct bonus of the companies takes 60% of the budget. By the way, for those who do not know, much of the fraud detected so far has occurred in this direct bonus to companies, which, by the way, is the system that has the relatively lowest quality indicators because it affects a productive fabric with more difficulties for training and with more mechanisms also for its misuse. And unfortunately, the decree-law I believe it is of particular interest to bring about a clear expulsion of workers' representatives from any area of governance, control. And I say of the workers and not of the companies because the representatives of the companies, by the way of offering them the business of the consultancies and by the way of the power that the companies have at the workplace, are not expelled but strengthened. I would like to recall one obvious fact: that training quotas are public resources, but they are public resources provided by workers and companies, that is, wages in a strict sense, and that in addition, training has a target aimed primarily at workers, who are their reason for existence and their ultimate recipients. In that sense, I believe that the decree is clearly better. I would stress that employers are given a dominant position in deciding training in the field of enterprise and that, especially in SMEs, where there is no unitary representation of workers, is very worrying because workers are expelled and do not have any participation in the training they are going to receive. On the other hand, training consultants are given prominence, without ensuring greater transparency. I hope that at the end of the years we will not have to regret that this has only been the impact of this reform by offering unchecked business opportunities that can pose a monopoly risk, that is, in the delivery of training, without avoiding the elements of fraud. I will propose an alternative diagnosis because the subject of training has some complexity that is not addressed in this royal decree-law. Our diagnosis is that of a society with a dual productive fabric, like many other things unfortunately, with great advances in the culture and practices of training in companies, which there are and quite, which base their strategy on contractual stability, on innovation and on good wages and, therefore, on productivity. In this type of business, training is the fourth leg, essential, along with decent wages, stability and innovation, and there it is working. But, unfortunately, our productive fabric is plagued by businesses, low value-added economic subsectors, with precarious employment, low stability in the workforce, low wages, where high profits can be achieved with low productivity. He also cited the hotel data and, it is true, only 4%. That should make us think something. Why do the hospitality companies that have at their disposal the possibility of having many resources do not use them? Because of the perversion that some explain or simply because that is one of the subsectors where it is possible to obtain benefits without training? That is the drama and that, unfortunately, is not addressed here, because it can only be addressed through labour reform. And there I say again, Minister, that this competitive strategy of low wages and precariousness existed before the labor reform, but it has been encouraged by the labor reform of you and of Convergence i Union where training plays no role. Why train workers who will no longer be in the company in a few weeks or months? There is no incentive in that regard. 2012 labour reform and job training are currently incompatible. This is one of the differential factors that makes much of the positive experiences of other countries can be implemented in some part of the productive fabric but not in that idle productive fabric that turns out to have no innovation and productivity improvement based, among other things, on training. There are also endogenous factors that need to be addressed. The main thing is that training is not reaching SMEs and micro-enterprises, it does not come in any way. There was a previous reform in which it was said that the direct bonus system would serve that purpose and does not come; it does not come, among other things, because of this difficulty of the productive fabric and another issue that is not addressed here and that should be addressed: in these companies the main problem begins with the entrepreneur, and not because the entrepreneur is especially perverse, but because in these companies lack muscle, lack of business structure, time. Training does not reach the workers because it does not reach the employer himself. As long as we have this productive structure of micro-enterprises that some like so much, much of the challenges this country has are not going to be able to solve. That is why, and that is one of the problems of this reform, we are surprised that this is not addressed in depth in this decree-law, because neither the supply plans nor those of demand, nor the innovations that are introduced will be a solution in that sense. On the contrary, in this area of SMEs the imbalance between enterprise and worker is further deepened because absolute power is given to the enterprise and the worker remains as a pure recipient, user and consumer of training. We do not share the idea that competitive competition is a panacea. It will involve a monopoly of very few consultants in the delivery of training. If the current structure of training management is maintained, with delays in the calls, delivery and execution that are concentrated only in three months due to organizational disasters, and late payments, the training is also going to produce something that occurs in other areas of public procurement, that few companies will be able to bear this model of relationship and, therefore, there is also going to be a risk there. I would like to say to you, Minister, that we share the idea of seeking a flexible model to adapt it to the very different reality of companies, but that does not mean increasing a bureaucratic and centralized model where it comes within the competence of the autonomous communities. There is a need for cooperation between administrations, yes, especially in the area of information, yes, but not at the expense of centralising the model as it is done in this section. Finally, and very briefly, so that you can see that our position of dialogue is sincere, I will put to you what the thrust of our proposal is. First, to strengthen the right to training as a right of the worker directly exercised before the company. Secondly, the key role of workers' representatives in companies in deciding training priorities, especially in SMEs, and in avoiding the discrimination that is taking place in some cases at the moment. Third, the establishment of sectoral participation mechanisms in the case of enterprises without workers' representation. Fourthly, the inclusion of collective bargaining rules and as a minimum content in sectoral agreements on forms of sectoral and entrepreneurial participation in training plans. Fifth, strengthening the role of the most representative trade union and business organisations in the elements of control, monitoring and evaluation, because you have expelled them. Sixth, recognition and respect of the competences of the autonomous communities to develop the functions of detection, planning, prioritization and execution...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u18	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u19	Sorry, Madam President, I'm done. ... in the formation of their productive reality, because the productive reality of the autonomous communities is very different from each other. Finally, the areas of cooperation and collaboration between the vocational training system for employment and the regulated vocational training system should be strengthened. We have resources that are not being used, we do not need to go to the consultants; we have them in our country's education system and they are not being used for a historical incompatibility between employment and education that, unfortunately, is given in all the governments of all the Autonomous Communities and of the Kingdom of Spain. As you can see, we have significant discrepancies but, as you said you are going to deal with it as a bill, we are going to give the dialogue a chance and we are going to abstain, leaving open the possibility, of course, of giving our final vote afterwards. And, Minister, I ask you to look a little better at employment data because the truth is that what you have said I do not see it anywhere, the only thing that makes it clear is the weakness of what you call job growth, very weak, as weak as it is not consolidated. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u20	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Happy St. Jordi's day, everyone. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Today is a day we would like to be in our country. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all the speeches show that there is a broad agreement in the House on the fundamental issues: the importance and importance of training for employment in terms of the productivity and competitiveness of our business fabric and, in addition, the importance and importance of these policies in terms of ensuring the safety of workers in a flexible labour market. In this regard, my group agrees with the importance given by the minister to the fact that in the last two labour reforms, not only in 2012 but also in 2010, we reinforce the right to training of workers. It seems to us that in this logic of a flexible labour market, security lies precisely in the right to training. I would also add to the diagnoses that two questions have been made that have not so far appeared with all the force that would be necessary. One, the medium-term scenario caused by the technological revolution in which we are already established as societies and as economies that will make economic activities and professions disappear and that, at the same time, will bring out new sectors, new activities and new professions. Such technological change can exclude many workers with insufficient training opportunities in the labour market. Addressing the technological revolution requires a massive effort in terms of training. It is good that we all read some of the studies of MIT, Harvard, The Economist has also devoted a couple of issues to this issue, about the importance that this technological change has to our economies and societies, which, I insist, gives value to training policies. Secondly, when we look at the reality of our unemployment, in figures which are not exactly positive this morning, we must remember that more than 55% of our unemployed do not have full baccalaureate, they have not passed compulsory secondary school. In this context of technological change, in that reality in which you have referred to that the best protection, the greatest safety for a worker is his level of training, our main problem is also the low level of training of our unemployed linked to our very high rates of school failure, of premature abandonment of our educational system. Too many people who leave the education system before what they touch and too few people in middle education also structurally explain our high unemployment. As regards training policies for employment, we must remember that it is precisely the younger and older ones who have participated least in these training policies; for the older ones there are problems of employability but also for young people. Furthermore - the Minister has said - and in this we agree in the diagnosis, not so much in the solutions proposed to us - the group of companies that have benefited the least from training for the company has been that of micro-enterprises and SMEs, and there is a challenge, basically because more than 90% of our business fabric is made up of these micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, in this diagnosis of problems there is coincidence. We are also aware that this royal decree takes place in a context of scandals linked to the management of training for employment and society requires us to respond to that problem, to that reality that scandalizes, and more in view of the needs we have. Nor would my group want to turn this reform into a general cause against the social partners, we would be unfair and Mr Coscubiela has pointed out some data on the management of all the funds for employment training that effectively relativise the role of the social partners in the management of the system. It is true that the Royal Decree points out some issues that my group could share, the need for multi-annual planning, the new role that social actors take in these issues, competitive competition, the implementation of the training cheque; these are issues that we could share, but for this great challenge to facilitate the access of workers from micro-enterprises and SMEs to training for employment the Royal Decree does not address any concrete and effective measures. The great forgotten of this royal decree are small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises and some of the demands that this fabric has been making for a long time - the possibility of accumulating quotas, the possibility of accumulating quotas in various economic periods, the increase in the economic effort to finance this information, etc. - remain unresolved. Therefore, our feeling of entry is that, with some interesting experiences in our environment of how micro-enterprises and SMEs can access training through employment - for example, in France, with the accumulation of training permits during various exercises - however, in our case they are not addressed. One of the main efforts that Convergence i Unió is going to make during this process is to try to convince that the royal decree needs changes precisely to guarantee access for SMEs and micro-enterprises to these resources in order to benefit their workers and improve their competitive position. In addition, minister - different spokesmen have said - the royal decree-law enters into a matter where the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court is abundant and where for twenty years the political battle has been fought, led in this Chamber mainly by the Basque Group and by the one of Convergence i Unió, to ensure that what establishes the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy can be exercised, that is that in labor matters the executive powers are of the autonomous communities. In this royal decree, in a more subtle way - to say the least - a model is confirmed that re-centralizes the design and management of these policies at the state level. Because in the end what we are reduced to the autonomous communities and their social partners is to manage the model that is defined by the State, a model that is defined at such a specific level of detail that the margin that leaves for the development of one's own model of training for employment is very small, and all this in a real decree that still has a regulatory development pending and where the margin of action that will leave the autonomous communities will be even smaller. There I must remind you of something because one has the feeling that in the Government the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia in force - organic law approved by these General Courts - has not been read, in particular, Article 170.1(b), which establishes the obligation of the Government of the Generalitat to participate in all the supra-autonomic plans and, therefore, in all those mechanisms for coordinating the institutional design established in this royal decree you cannot equate the role of the autonomous communities with the role of the social partners; at least in the case of Catalonia that is not possible. Some progress that we had made in recent times, such as in controlling the follow-up of bonuses, this royal decree makes us go back to previous positions at the beginning of the two thousand years. This, Minister, leads us to have to vote not in political terms on this royal decree, hoping that in the parliamentary process they will be able to give concrete expression to this offer of dialogue on these two issues, on micro-enterprises and SMEs and on respect for the competition framework, in improvements that allow us to support a policy in which we agree that it is essential that we be able to move forward to ensure the safety of workers and the competitiveness of our companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Simancas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u23	Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the reading of this royal decree-law is clearly deduced its main purpose, from the reading of the text and from the minister's own speech in this rostrum. The fundamental objective is to improve the transparency of the vocational training system and to shield it to the extent possible in the face of possible irregularities in its management. I would like to tell you, Minister, that we unequivocally and 100 per cent share this purpose. That is why we are going to give this text a vote of confidence in its handling. However, my group has some reservations to put to you, Madam Minister, both in form and in substance. As for form, was it really necessary to process this text as a decree-law? Why, Minister? You yourself have recognized in this rostrum that you have been negotiating this regulation for months. If you have been negotiating this regulation for months, where is the extraordinary and urgent need? Frankly, the legislative instrument of the decree is being abused. More questions of form: the reform comes by decree and without agreement. This is not a minor matter. It is the first time in our recent history that a reform of this magnitude, on such a fundamental issue, comes without the agreement of the social partners and without the agreement of the autonomous communities that have direct competence in the execution of what is regulated here. That's not good news, Minister. On the merits: I insist that we share the purpose of ensuring cleanliness and transparency; it is a good purpose, a laudable purpose, which we share one hundred percent. However, this aim for my group is short, combating possible fraud is very good, but we must also combat unemployment and the training deficit of many of our workers; these are also laudable, fundamental and strategic objectives. For this last objective, to improve the quality of our training system, beyond speeches, minister, we see less dedication and less resources throughout this text. Little substantive progress, in our view, Minister. We may be able to make some further progress in the subsequent parliamentary process, but so far little progress has been made. The improvement in job training, professional training, for employment, is a key tool today in our country, to achieve sound and fair economic development. We do not settle for an economic recovery simply, we want a fair recovery and for that it is necessary to better train our unemployed and our workers. A fundamental tool to gain competitiveness of the good, Minister, by a way other than social devaluation and the devaluation of labour rights is also possible, our neighbours teach us this; the improvement of training is key for this purpose. To combat unemployment, despite the somewhat optimistic presentation you have made of the latest EPA data, these are bad, unemployment has grown from 23.1% to 23.78 %. This is not good news, it's bad news. We have more unemployment this year and you call it recovery. In order to combat unemployment, training must be improved, in order to ensure a labour market with decent and stable contracts, those who are now defending the workers of Telefónica's subcontracts in the streets of Madrid; in order to combat job insecurity, exploitation, labour poverty, training is a key tool, Minister. Our country needs a strategic bet to improve its vocational training. In our view, with a little more ambition than this royal decree-law, even if it is, I insist, a well-intentioned decree-law that will count on a vote of confidence on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Madam Minister, we propose, for example, that more resources be committed to vocational training in this country. If we agree that our first problem is unemployment and that, to a large extent, to solve the problem of unemployment we need to improve the employability of workers and the training of workers, let us devote more resources to this key tool. The nearly EUR 1.9 billion budgeted for this year is, in our view, an important but insufficient amount. The contributions of workers and employers are important but insufficient. In our view, the State must provide more resources for this purpose. Where to get them? We propose a reflection, Minister: to obtain these resources by reducing the bonuses to the hiring, very expensive tool, very expensive, with doubtful results in the best of the cases. Let's take a look, Minister, because the results of this recruitment bonus strategy, with interesting exceptions, are clearly better. This is an idea. There are more ideas: the greater link, as mentioned here, of the vocational training system for employment in the workplace with the vocational training of the education system. The development of these two systems, one behind the other, is a luxury, it is a factor of inefficiency that we cannot afford; it is true that it is not from now on, this comes from afar, but we cannot afford it; we must also turn to this, Minister. Let us link courageously, but resolutely, professional infrastructures and resources for the common purpose of improving the training of unemployed and employed people. As far as the system's government is concerned, we agree that the social partners do not directly manage training, we agree, and also that they do not directly deliver the courses. However, the social partners, the representatives of employers, the most representative trade unions must participate actively and responsibly in the system's governance, first of all by efficiency, because they are the ones who know the problems best and how best to solve them, but also by right. The social partners, it has been said here, provide the financing of the system through contributions. In the agreement signed by the Government with the social partners on 29 July 2014, which you have expressly mentioned in this rostrum, the participation of the social partners in the design, planning, programming, monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of the training offer, especially for employed workers - especially, not exclusively - was literally discussed. It was said so in that agreement that you signed and signed with the television cameras in La Moncloa; however, in the royal decree-law only design, planning and programming appear. What about everything else? Why have control, monitoring and evaluation fallen along the way? Couldn't we get this back? That sounds reasonable. I insist that social partners should not directly manage training, okay, but should have an important role in the governance of the system with transparency, with absolute transparency, but an important role. We also share the explicit objective of improving training in SMEs. I come from a country where companies are bigger: Germany. It is easier to do training there, it is obvious, but here we have the economic reality and business landscape we have, and we have to make a long-standing and rarely achieved effort with some governments and others, it is true, but we have to make that effort. We do not share some of the formulas that arise in this royal decree-law because it attributes the organization of training activities also, I quote textually, to other external entities without sufficient guarantees of quality and rigour. This can be a focus of possible irregularities, Minister, just as can be the minimal, excessively minimal, requirement in the quality of improved training or demand. We are talking about a minimum duration of one hour for training activities, a minimum duration of one hour. What minimum training, with a minimum quality, can be done in an hour? Very little, Minister. Here, too, there may be a bag of potential fraud that we must fight. We don't like training checks, we'll let you know. We know that you are enthusiastic supporters of this model because you have applied it in the Community of Madrid, an area from which your Secretary of State comes, with fruition and with bad results in our opinion in terms of efficiency, in terms of fairness and in terms of safeguarding against irregularities. Believe me, this has not worked well for the checks in our community; we are not in favour of this formula. We miss a stake in public training centres more than in private ones. You have an ideologically based conviction, but not about the facts or not factually about the best quality of training provided by private centers; it's not true, that's not proven, we don't like it. We also have fewer effective coordination mechanisms between the Central State Administration and the Autonomous Communities in the implementation of these policies. I'm done, Madam President, Minister. In short, we share the aim of improving transparency, improving the control of public expenditure on training; we share this purpose 100%, but we miss something more ambition to achieve a system of vocational training useful to our unemployed to help them find employment, useful to our workers to improve their professional skills. Since you have stated your intention to process this actual-decree law as a draft, we will abstain in your vote and we will prepare the relevant amendments to improve the text and make it more useful to the general interest. This is our purpose, Madam President, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. Mrs Villalobos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u25	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I am not going to go deeper into the intervention that the minister has had because as they will understand the sharing of the 100 percent; and I share it with the 100 percent as most of the spokespersons who have spoken this morning have done. Because there has been a shared analysis of the diagnosis of reality in which we are currently in vocational training. Vocational training, from the political point of view of all those who have at some point devoted themselves to these issues, has undergone major changes since it was implemented. It has been a magnificent system that has logically been adapting to the times according to the needs of each moment. It is a process that has been carried out by all the Governments of this country. Why? Because the purpose - I am convinced - since the beginning of the process is the formation of the unemployed for the incorporation into the world of work. Because we are also at this time in a globalised economy where the ability of workers to adapt to the new realities of the new companies that are emerging is something totally necessary and, therefore, the Government is now proposing a new adaptation of vocational training to the reality of the market. We have to bear in mind that our companies have to be competitive, they have to have a high level of productivity and this necessarily requires stable employment and adequate vocational training. It's a diagnosis we all share. However, Mr Simancas, the purpose of this reform is not fraud or transparency, but also but not only; it is the adequacy of this system to these new realities once the problems of the current model have been observed and analysed by the social partners themselves. That is why this new model is created. Why is this done - some spokesmen have asked - in a real-decree law? For a fundamental issue. Look, the Minister of Employment, together with her team, has spent many hours - those who have been aware and participating in these negotiations know this - to reach an absolute consensus with the social partners. Those who have been close to that negotiation know that there has been a great willingness on the part of trade unions to cooperate, that they know better than anyone the real problems that the current model has presented and have acted with loyalty and have acted collaboratively. You know as well as I do that the problem has not arisen there. Mr Coscubiela, you say that we have expelled the workers to bring the companies in; then, why are the entrepreneurs who have not wanted to sign? Because the interests they claim to be defending what training should be are not the model advocated by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security; because the model of the ministry is - we share all those who are here - to encourage the creation of employment and the training of our unemployed, which is quite negative at the moment and therefore we have to adapt that model. I want to say that trade unions and social partners are not expelled from this model. We can improve this and, in this regard, I logically expect the amendments that you are going to put forward in the light of the speeches made by both Mr Simancas and Mr Coscubiela on how to improve that participation, which is present. If there is no agreement, it is not because of a lack of will on the part of the Government; I have already explained why. As far as the Autonomous Communities are concerned, I do not know of any total agreement by any one hundred per cent Government with the Autonomous Communities, because political affairs are also involved here. 90% of the autonomous communities agreed with the model: some told you: yes, I am, but my secretary-general can cut off my head. That happens and happens before, that is, I am not accusing any political party; there we all act exactly the same and, consequently, there is an important consensus within the autonomous communities. I am convinced that when this bill passes through the Employment Commission and becomes law, it will have far more agreements than it can currently have within the Autonomous Communities. Moreover, it is said here that autonomous competences are invaded and, let's see, the execution of the model means executing a model, Mr Azpiazu; it does not mean that each autonomous community makes the model that it wants, because then we will have an absolutely impossible division of the system. He said that a temporary stop must have the capacity to choose the type of training. That's why the check works; let's give it the chance to see if it works well and, if the other system has created problems, let's put this one in place, exactly as in competitive competition. The previous system has not worked well, because we are going to give it a chance and, if it does not, it will change again because I am convinced that any government - I logically hope that the next one is my party - will fight for that vocational training that will facilitate the finding of employment for our unemployed. There is no expulsion of workers or employers and no greater treatment of companies and, one of the serious problems that our system has had, it has been in companies that, as we all know, were engaged in training. This system achieves greater control so that those business issues, which are called "businesses" in some way, are not produced again, that the only thing they have done is to go and get easy money, and that is an important issue that solves this bill. Secondly, we are talking about the problem of SMEs. Mr Coscubiela, I agree with you, with Mr Simancas and with all the analyses that have been made on the situation of the unemployed and SMEs, in particular on training. It is true, SMEs have always had a problem because there are not properly trained entrepreneurs, but it is that most of these companies do not have trade union representation either, then we have to give confidence to trade union organisations in order to make a significant contribution and participate in the formation of SMEs. What is being sought is a model in which trade union centres have a fundamental importance in what means not only training, but in the diagnosis and design of strategies. Mr Simancas, I share with you - the law itself says - that a strategic design is necessary and we have to do so with the social partners and also with the experts, many of whom are part of the organizational structures of the unions and the employers; they have a vision of the future from where you have to go the training and we have to rely on them. What you can't go on doing is training that's absolutely useless. This issue is resolved and, in addition, in SMEs the social partners, the trade unions will charge for participating and for developing and carrying out such training in SMEs, because it is one of the obligations of the trade union centres, which are essential in social peace and in the management of labour issues. This Government has a very special interest in the fact that, at such a difficult time for all, the trade union and employers' centres play a decisive role in the meaning of everything related to training, work, employment and so on. I think this is a good start to a good reform of vocational training. Let's see how some of the systems that have been introduced work, let's give it a vote of confidence, as they were given at the time to the previous ones, to see how it works. Of course, I share the Minister's words: I know the enormous negotiating effort she has made - as most of those who have intervened know - and that same effort is going to move it - so she has brought it to me as a spokesman for this issue - in the negotiation with the political groups. The aim is efficient training, training to help create jobs and training to help the Autonomous Communities implement it. Finally, Mr Coscubiela, Mr Simancas, the first quarter of the year has always been the worst of the year, but there are very important data. I share the Minister's analysis: more and more stable employment is being created. The duality of the labour market is one of the fundamental axes with which to end up in order to have an efficient, competitive and high-productivity labour market, and that idea, marked by the current Government, is being fulfilled and I am convinced that it will get better and better. Why? Because we will all be able to ensure that the unemployed have adequate training, that there are no vacancies in our labour market because there is no adequate training and that we are able to meet our objective, that of all, which is efficient vocational training for the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villalobos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u27	We turn to the point concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, in particular on the draft Organic Staff Law of the National Police. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, I have the floor, by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez. [[Pause]] I see he's not in plenary. [[Mr Martínez Gorriaran asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u28	Mr Martínez Gorriaran, are the amendments being defended?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u29	We think they're being defended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u30	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the UI Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Without any will to unnecessarily extend the duration of the plenary on this day of St. Jordi, Book Day, but with the determination of my group to express the importance for us of the processing of this bill, I rise to the rostrum to defend the amendments that my group keeps alive. In addition, I would like to make it clear to the House that of the one hundred and seventy-three amendments tabled in total by the different parliamentary groups, almost half, eighty-six, have been tabled by my parliamentary group. Only nine have been incorporated in full or, above all, in part in the committee's opinion, which is now being discussed by the plenary, and we are therefore keeping eighty amendments of the eighty-six alive. Our amendments have been drafted with the participation of the unions of the National Police Corps, specifically of the Unified Police Union; we have shared with them, and we continue to do so, many of the objectives that have been set in the course of the processing of this law, and we want to highlight this when their processing in Congress ends. Some issues raised by trade unions and other parliamentary groups have been included in the project process, such as the abolition of the rank of Commissioner-General or the change in gender denomination in the National Police Corps positions. We welcome this, but we already say that it is minimal issues that have been addressed in the bill. Therefore, we keep alive the vast majority of the amendments tabled by my parliamentary group, relating to issues that are fundamental to our daily lives within the National Police Corps, such as training, labour and trade union rights, the approval of studies, the abolition of residence requirements or the establishment of a special optional scale, as well as to other issues such as the realization of training in the use of weapons, which must be covered quite generically by the law; establishing entry only by the basic scale; ensuring maximum clarity and transparency in the promotion process; delimiting and promoting the recognition of the second activity at a sufficient age so that undesirable phenomena do not occur among the members of the National Police Corps, such as having to assume functions that do not concern them at ages that may be complicated; regulating in a better way the procedure of free designation, and also regulating in a way that fully guarantees the consolidation of rights with the exercise of greater responsibilities when they are left behind. We have even tabled amendments to regulate in a more democratic and uniform way the granting of honorary rewards. We have also proposed the abolition of performance evaluation and, above all, we have advocated that certain trade union rights be strengthened in an important way, such as the rights to negotiate and, above all, the rights to intervene, to supervise controls and guarantees on access to the body, on the material means and on other issues that have led us to raise a good number of amendments. We have also tabled amendments in the table of medical exclusions. To conclude - and to coincide with other parliamentary groups - we have taken advantage of this procedure - not only ourselves but also the People's Parliamentary Group itself - to propose amendments to various laws affecting the Civil Guard, a body that is suffering in the last few days - I said it in the Commission and I repeat it here - a treatment that from my parliamentary group we do not share at all, as when it ends up taking certain civilian guards to military prison for issues that in the middle of the 21st century are incomprehensible. We understand that all these convictions must be promptly pardoned by the Government in order to remove these civilian guards from the military prison. There is a need to change different aspects of the laws affecting the Civil Guard and that is why we have tabled these amendments that we share with other parliamentary groups. The People's Party has also taken advantage of the processing of the law to put forward some amendment that seemed to us to harden a feature that we denounced at the beginning of the processing of this law, which is the militarization of the National Police Corps through certain aspects. This amendment introduced by the People's Parliamentary Group favours the passageway from the army to the National Police and has seemed to us to be a feature that aggravates this remilitarization character of the National Police Corps that we do not share at all. All this will lead us to vote against the opinion in the final vote of all that we will have at the end of this sitting. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Guillaumes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u33	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the new law on the regulation of the National Police/National Police Corps in an ambiguous amendment that has finally been tabled by the People's Party. Personally, I like to always start by saying how good the laws have even though we disagree. We like that in this law there is a declaration of rights and duties, it is an interesting contribution. We like that for the first time the gender perspective is included in a police law, we believe it is positive. We didn't like the name change especially. National Police Corps for us was fine and it's been sort of fixed. We did not like the appearance of these Commissioners-General with an almost more political than a technical profile, although we did not propose an amendment because others were already presenting it, but this has been arranged. In fact, we focus our amendments on two fundamental blocks, the maximal equalization of the police function between the Civil Guard and the National Police/Police Corps. We understand that the function of a civilian guard, except that he is on missions abroad or that he is located in a military barracks, is in practice an absolutely police function and that it was an occasion - rather better in the previous Civil Guard Act but this was another occasion - to try to harmonise the rules to the maximum so that they would serve both bodies at the same time. There's nothing more different than a soldier and a cop. A member of the military must always act in bloc and obeying orders; a policeman, after a social security doctor, is surely the public official who has the most degree of autonomy in his decisions, and that we have to reflect in the regulations, because it has not been accepted. Our battle horse was the famous catwalk. Some have said that it was for ideological reasons that the Mossos who were not comfortable could pass to the National Police Corps. We have never given him this approach, we are in favour of the inter-administrative modality, we would be at European level, that is, it is not a subject of sovereignism or anything like that, but it is that this catwalk has a trap. It turns out that we have a replacement quota in the autonomous communities that it is, so that if we try to establish a similar gateway in the opposite direction, we cannot, or can, do so in a very limited way. In such a way that it's a walkway that we can take people away from us without us being able to do something similar to the other way around. If we attend to the cost of a policeman - nine months of training and sometimes a year or two of practice, etc. - the possibility of a hostile OPA towards other bodies to save this formation is a real possibility that we find absolutely alarming. It has been partially arranged with the local police, and we welcome it. Now this walkway won't work with the local cops. Now I'm going to comment on something that's very shocking, but I have to say it. At the parliamentary seat of this same bank, four metres from here, the Minister of the Interior said that this catwalk, this mobility, would also work between civilian guards and the National Police Corps. Unless we interpret very extensively the mobility envisaged between the military and include the Civil Guard, which is rather complicated, we deduce that the Minister's commitment just a month ago, three weeks ago, has simply not been fulfilled and this seems to us to be extraordinarily alarming. I said a long time ago that I did not know what was going on in this ministry and I showed our surprise at unsigned reports, etc. - I will not extend out of parliamentary courtesy because the minister is not here - but that three things could happen as in the series Yes, minister. One possibility could be that meeting of senior officials in an English club saying: A new minister has come who has his own political line, which is very alarming; now in the ministry we will have two political lines: that of senior officials and that of the minister himself. The other possibility of the series Yes, minister is that of the foreign minister - I mean that because the film was going like this - who calls the prime minister and says to him: Have you heard of the coup d'état in such a place that it is very important for Britain? And he said to him, "No, I have not heard of anything because I have broken television." After a while the foreign minister calls the Prime Minister and says, "I've heard, the regime's new strong man is such a general, and he says, "So have you received the MI5 report?" He answers, "No, it's just that my driver had the radio on while I was on my way to the ministry. This would be the second possibility of what happens in the Ministry of the Interior. The third one, since no jokes are allowed, I won't mention it. What has happened, that is, the parliamentary minister made a solemn statement saying that there would be mobility between the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard. It seems that this is not the case after three weeks. Therefore, of the three hypotheses I have tried to explain elegantly what is happening in this ministry, we already know which one is occurring: the first. It would be better - I say it from my heart - if they put order in their own ministry and it were not the high officials who made the decisions at their club or wherever, because it is especially alarming. The opposition can do well for a minister to make a mistake; we do not like anything that is the ministry responsible for security, because in that package we all go. I've already said there were three hypotheses as to why such strange things were happening in that house, and now we know what the real one is. We don't want to think it's true or half of what's come out in the media, in recordings, etc.; we don't want to believe it because really whoever has to give us security would give us insecurity. I repeat, I abide by what the law says. About something the minister solemnly said, after three weeks, nothing at all. Something's going on in that house and I think we already know what it is. Although it was only for this reason, because this law does not seem inspired by who would have to inspire it, but by other people of whom we don't know the name or that we do know it because it turns out that it comes out in some confidential Internet, frankly nothing can be voted on in these terms. The truth is that it is a very worrying issue, and this law has perhaps shown it in a defiant way. Even if it was only because we don't know who is really inspiring this law, that is why it would be worth a vote against. In addition, there is the issue of its one-way gateway which also forces us to vote against this law. So that's what we'll do. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the Members of this House for St Jordi. Congratulations to all Gorkas, to the Jurgis, to the Xurxos, the names of Galician kings, to the Chorches, because in Aragon it is also celebrated Sant Jordi. The Xurdes, the Jorges, the Jordis and the Jordinas also celebrate their name today. Of course, I also congratulate the Minister of the Interior, who is courteous and does not take away the courage. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mr Trevín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes, point out the Valley of San Jorge in the municipality of Llanes, of the Principality of Asturias, which today is also celebrating Saint George. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the opinion of the Internal Affairs Commission on the Staff Law of the National Police. It is not the law that police officers or Spanish citizens need, it is a law to consolidate the political police model of Cosidó and Fernández Díaz. By this rule you intend to turn as a sock to a professional body and to the service of the people to turn it into a police force at the service of the People's Party, a step backwards that I dare not say is more harmful to citizens or officials. Socialists are radically against it. For us it represents a legal instrument for the controlled robbery of the current Spanish police system of civil nature. The priority of the current ministerial team is not to preserve the security of the Spaniards; that police force already has it and is good. Now the partisan defense of the people involved in various judicial cases is put forward. They have put the institution at the service of the party, political and grey police in Interior, NO-DO in color on Spanish Television. This law seeks to cover this scenario and, by the way, to perpetuate it over time; that is, to give a 180-degree turn to the direction that the Spanish police have been maintaining in the last three decades. What police found you when you arrived at the government in 2011? A professional police, motivated, with covered templates, well equipped with means and with great prestige among Spanish citizens. How's he doing now? Politized, demotivated, with 2,745 less available troops and spending more than half a million euros on a riot truck that, if it ever does, requires at least thirty police officers to operate. And negative government decisions for the police and their prestige among the citizens. The Law on Citizen Security criminalizes ideological dissent under the idea that it alters public order and security. With it as an excuse, the current Government orders the police to dissolve or prevent meetings, demonstrations, expression of ideas or disclosure of information that is inconvenient to it. We return to the social political brigade of such infamous memory, that is to say, to the shortest path towards the loss of citizen confidence that the police have endeavoured throughout the current democratic period to win, and indeed has done so. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the People's Party, let us clarify one point. In democracy, the rights of the police should not clash with those of the citizens. Recognizing the rights of the police should not reduce the rights of citizens or endanger their freedoms. Improving the rights of police officers is today, about anything else, an act of justice. But to understand this, it must be understood that the police are not officials at their service but at the service of Spanish society. It is no longer necessary for someone from the Interior to think of dressing in grey at the IPUs, because you have great desire for grey; it can be the social grey of a society that sees its welfare state crumbled, the plasma grey of Mr Rajoy's appearances, or even the uniform police grey. You don't have a remedy. Now, the government brings this bill to Congress at the end of the legislature, without trade union agreement and without a credible assessment of the economic cost involved. The Director General who put all possible obstacles when he was a Member of Parliament so that the National Police Corps did not have a staff law in 2011 agreed with the trade union representatives, is now trying to collate, at the last moment, one without any agreement. The SUP and the SPP say no to this staff law. The same is true, in my view, of the other trade unions, even though they have not made it public. I also take the opportunity to greet the various police union leaders who are accompanying us today in the rostrum. But it is also that you want to develop this law at zero cost, and that is impossible without seriously harming the majority of the collective. That's why no one gets satisfied. We have also missed the opportunity to update the rights of the police, many of which are already widespread in our civil service. The right to collective bargaining is a mere statement that lacks practical content. It will review the Equality Act with regard to the introduction of a non-sexist language or measures to balance the presence of men and women in appointments and appointments. In training it does not establish a system of approval with the levels of the Spanish educational system, so police studies and the efforts of those who do so are not properly recognized. Barcenas, the Gürtel, the illegal financing in his party and the espionage to political opponents have obsessed the interior dome and marked this legislature definitively. Distorted priorities. Loquillo and Fito Cabrales define it very graphically in the song Luché contra la loi: I stole a thousand banks, baby, for you/I fought against the law and the law won/I sought the money that before I did not see/I fought against the law and the law I won. You repeat these days: who makes the pay. Let me do some precision. The first time, I'm afraid, there aren't all of them yet, but that's gonna make it clear. The second is that if the PP does it, they try not to pay it. And when they can no longer avoid it, they make them countless, people with particular problems to quickly forget. They pass from reference of the golden age, from friends of the soul or from magicians of the economy to bad memories of the past, as quickly as demand the time of broadcast of the television. The case is that the PP, the PP of now, that of Rajoy, that of Sáenz of Santamaría, that of Cospedal, put them in whatever order you want, appears immaculate. Don't think I'm overreacting. Remember the conversations between the former popular treasurer and the president of the government a couple of years ago when they were still friends. In them were made confidences or asked favors: Luis be strong - the president - Rosalía cannot do the walk - Bárcenas - Rosalía did not do the walk in the National Audience. Barcenas asked President Rajoy, and the next day police officials quietly introduced her into the garage and took her out with the same secrecy. Who gave the order? That's the fifth time I've asked. The UDEF of a few years ago, not the current one, was demonstrating too much zeal and discretion in Gürtel's investigation. The Commissioner-General for the Judicial Police is no longer responsible, even at the most. Three ceasings in this legislature. One of his worst flaws, gentlemen of the People's Party, is his understanding of relations with the Government and the institutions. They confuse party with government, institutions with government. The police are not at your service, understand it, but at the service of all. The State Attorney General protested at the end of 2012 because two senior officials were sent by the Government to Catalonia to request the Millet prosecutors to register the Convergence headquarters. None of them had competence for it. The political police are only at the service of the ruling party and remain committed to it. More places of chief commissioners are being convened than there are jobs for them, and with this law, instead of reaching this category only by selective antiquity, as has always been done, they make it possible to access this category only two years old, thus passing ahead of other commissioners with ten or twelve years of experience. The excuse, contest-opposition. The political favors that some officials are asked for must be paid for. I mean, they're getting paid now. Mr. Cosidó agreed with the University King Juan Carlos a course for members of the body to qualify for the degree. The enrollment, 3,000 euros, pays the general address. The selection of the lucky, neither objective nor transparent nor with publicity; capricious and opaque. That said, police favors are paid for. The problem is that the government doesn't pay it, we pay it all Spanish. Police public service is eroded and costs are increased. The retired red medals, for example, have not been packed in these years to give them to the senior police officers involved in their political police. They were left without it, however, many policemen kicking the streets, with actions in their existence that we can qualify as heroic or modeling. Another error of this law is the fourth additional provision, the gateway through which autonomous police can travel to the National Police Corps. We're not very opa either, Mr. Guillaumes. The bill also changes the name National Police Corps by National Police, recovering the name of one of the two bodies, the militarized, with command from the army, which was unified as the Superior Police Corps in 1986. Here we must add the new uniformity and its currencies, and the definition as a uniformed body. And spending 4 million euros on foreign exchange, command sticks and women's hats, instead of buying, for example, bulletproof vests for women and men in the body. They bet on authoritarianism and a certain militarism for this civilian police force and the slogans: everything for the PP, everything for the PP. For this reason, Mr. Cosidó and Mr. Fernández Díaz have been burdened with debts that are hardly paid with honor. A few weeks ago, all of Spain was stupefied by a veritable rosary of accusations between two senior police officers. Both depend directly on the deputy operational director who keeps an ominous silence. We have heard allegations of fabricating false evidence, of carrying out very discreet police services for the management of the PP, a non-transparent use of the reserved funds. No one has explained to date whether their mutual public accusations are true or not. One has been removed but ascended, according to the Government, and replaced in the investigation of the dispute against the Government by the judge. The other remains in his position and has seen his business activities declared compatible. The answer from the minister and the police director general? A very repeated aphorism in the Ibero-American countries: They believe nothing of what they hear and almost nothing of what they see. They seem to be manicated to intervene. That said, there are favors that are hardly paid with honor; and debts continue to grow. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. Operation Brugal, a macro-cause, is underway in Alicante. His research requires more police, in the opinion of the investigating judge; he feels unattended. The General Council of the Judiciary has given him the reason that, for the first time - listen well, for the first time - he had to intervene to protect him in a forceful way. He asked the general management to put an end to the obstacles preventing the completion of the instruction. [[The Lord]] Were the circumstances of the case unknown in the ministry? Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to doubt it. From the CICO it is available all the means that the judge sues and his current responsible was, at the time, in the said operation. How come you don't want us to talk about political police? We are obliged to control the Government and this forces us to denounce what we see. And today, I, in this rostrum, must denounce the scandalous partisan use that is being made of the police institution. [[Applauds]] They even deny cooperation with the judiciary to prevent PP officials from being investigated, charged or sentenced, especially to four weeks of municipal and autonomous elections. How come you don't want us to talk about political police? Completely rectify this legislative gap in the Senate. If they are willing to do so, they will count on our cooperation. As a sign of that provision, I announce that we will withdraw our particular vote on the section on those threatened by ETA. As presented, it can contribute to arbitrariness, affecting legal certainty and the principle of equality. Think and correct in this and in the whole law, for the exemplaryness of our National Police Corps, for the security of Spanish citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Trevín. Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denial]] I have the floor for the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Cabello de Alba.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to extend a cordial greeting to the Director-General of the Police and to the representatives of the trade unions who have had the desire to accompany us here this morning. I will try, on the other hand, to put some serenity in the debate after Mr Trevín's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here today about one of the greatest advances in recent decades for the National Police Corps and the men and women who make it up. As you are aware, since the birth of the National Police Corps in 1986, all the specific regulations that applied to it for the development of its functions were dispersed in various legal bodies, including some articles of the Organic Regulations of the Government Police of 1975 that remain in force. Even in these adverse circumstances, in this undefined of rights and duties and, above all, in this lack of updating of the regulations governing its functions, our police, in an ardent capacity to adapt to the social reality of the moment, a quality that it undoubtedly possesses as no one, has been able, thanks to the work and professionalism of its men and women, to become one of the most valued institutions of the State, valued by the citizens who recognize their professionalism and effectiveness and value security; security that gives them levels of freedom that they have never had. It has been a long time since 1986, society has changed considerably and as a result of this change has also changed the regulatory framework affecting public administrations - for example, in this case, in a significant way, Law 7/2007 of the Basic Staff Regulations - and the police institution itself has also evolved in its continuous adaptation to citizens' demands. Therefore, it was necessary to update and fix, by means of a rule with the appropriate legal rank, the general statutory regime of the officials of the still National Police Corps, adapting it to their organizational and functional needs and to the demands of the collective itself. With all certainty, ladies and gentlemen, this law does not fully reflect the demands of a collective which, as numerous and plural, consists of very diverse sensitivities. Nor does it have the unanimity of the political groups whose ideological diversity has been demonstrated today. But it is also rigorously true that, since the legitimate discrepancy, there have been heard and incorporated, amended or deleted from the draft law throughout the parliamentary process many issues that are not lacking in importance. In this case, Mr Guillaumes, for example, I can tell you that the statements of the Minister of the Interior in this rostrum have been precisely one of the efforts promised by the Minister of the Interior to reach the maximum of consensus. Here, at the moment, it seems that if no amendments are adopted there is a position of immobilism and if we give in to the negotiation in order to reach an agreement, what there is is all the film that you have come to point out, but it is simply that effort that has been made and has no more political reading, I can assure you. As I announced in my speech during the full debate, we were willing to make an effort to bring positions closer together, all in order to improve the legal text, but also to achieve at least a minimum consensus in the adoption of this law; an effort that deserved and deserves the police institution and an effort that we are willing to continue to do throughout the parliamentary process in the Senate. It has not been possible, but the effort has not been in vain because the legal text in its substantive content and in the approach to different sensitivities has improved substantially, although at times it has been to the detriment of the legislative technique. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have taken part in the papers, representatives of the various political groups, and, of course, the enormous effort and the magnificent work of our lawyer in the Committee on the Interior, Mrs Ripollés. At the same time, I also take the opportunity to say that a technical correction has been presented in this last text, which already holds the representatives of each political group participating in the paper, who know and understand. The final result, ladies and gentlemen, is a good law that represents, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, a great advance; a good law that brings together all the essential aspects of the National Police personnel regime, which follows the line marked by the basic statute of the public employee and therefore adapts to the current reality; a law that advances in equal treatment and opportunities between women and men as an informant principle - Mr Trevín, you did not recognize it here out of ignorance, but you have also accepted this amendment to your own party - which contains a detailed account of individual rights and collective exercise rights. It is a law in which, for the first time, the management of individual rights is carried out under the constitutional relevance of protected legal assets, highlighting, for example, respect for dignity at work and especially in the face of situations of sexual or labour harassment; a law which incorporates into its statutory regime the right for the Administration to take measures to promote the reconciliation of personal, family and labour life. With regard to the exercise of collective rights, it should be noted that the text welcomes the rights of collective representation contained in article 18 of Organic Law 2/1986, such as the right of members of the police institution to obtain trade union organizations at the national level for the defence of their professional interests, to join them and to participate actively in them, while respecting in any case the limits and restrictions on the subject set out in the said norm. This system, ladies and gentlemen, has so far given perfect protection to the rights of civil servants, as can be seen from the fact that the percentage of membership is higher than that of other civil servants in other public administrations. This law, ladies and gentlemen, strengthens the legal and economic protection of officials by hiring civil liability insurance to cover damages, bonds and other amounts arising from the requirements of liability of any kind of national police officers, in connection with the actions carried out by them in the performance of their duties; a measure that certainly extends to that body the sixth provision amending the Organic Law regulating the rights and duties of members of the Civil Guard. The law makes the system of incompatibilities more flexible, allowing for the general performance of a second job, following the line marked by the most recent jurisprudence in response to the requests of the members of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and improving the system of formation of the promotion processes. The performance evaluation system, a novelty incorporated by the Basic Staff Regulations, is worth a special reference in order to measure the performance of the achievement of results, according to criteria of transparency, objectivity, impartiality and non-discrimination, and in whose establishment the representative trade union organizations will participate. We could also talk about the regulation of the second activity, the accentuation of the relevance of the Police Council or innovative measures regarding the participation of officials in the prevention of occupational risks, etc. Mr Trevín, I honestly cannot say which of these measures is a step backwards in the rights of officials or the police institution itself. On the contrary, they represent a clear step forward, which, as I said at the beginning, cannot satisfy everyone in everything. It is the right canon to try to conjugate all opinions. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the police and the institution deserve the maximum consensus in the adoption of this law or at least the minimum opposition. The People's Group in the last legislature abstained for this reason in the vote on the law submitted by the Socialist Government, which also remained in the Senate for dissolution of the Courts. Mr.Sicilia interpreted this in past interventions as proof that the law was better. After hearing and seeing the procedural disorientation - because Mr Trevín has not come here to talk about the law, as he has not done either in the Commission; he has come to talk about his book exclusively - in addition to his ignorance - since it gives rise to unapproved amendments which have been adopted and which are very important - after this intervention I already know perfectly well that the abstention did not show a better law; what evidenced the abstention of the People's Group was a better opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Cabello de Alba.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u39	Agreement of the Commission on the Interior on the report adopted by the Sub-Commission on Social Networks. There's going to be a position-fixing shift. Firstly, Mr Larreina has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a procedure which, in my opinion, is significant, because we are going to adopt unanimously - as I hope will happen, as happened in the Commission - a report from this House on social networks. It is important to emphasise, first of all, that aspect of unanimity because we are talking about something that is important, as it concerns, among other things, the world of information, communication and freedoms. As Professor Echeverría Ezponda, one of the leading researchers in this state who has been a member of the Higher Council of Scientific Research, pointed out fifteen years ago, the changes driven by new technologies must be analysed from a double perspective. On the one hand, contrasting the knowledge society to that of information, and on the other hand, adjectivating the information society, wondering whether the information society - which is under construction and is still under construction, because it is constantly changing - will be or will not be a civil society, democratic, humanized, just, tolerant and multicultural. In short, is democracy in the information society possible or not? The answer is logically that yes, and precisely this report on social networks addresses these two questions: on the one hand, to counter the knowledge society to that of information, an important aspect because we cannot simply remain in the field of information, but that social networks must contribute - and in fact contribute - to the knowledge society, to this generalization of knowledge, and ultimately to apply that principle that there is a social mortgage on knowledge, something that cannot remain in the private sphere, but must be at the service of society as a whole. On the other hand, we must ask ourselves whether this information society under construction is going to promote a more humanized democratic civil society. There, too, has been the reflection of all groups in this report, along the lines of what we are doing to ensure that this knowledge and information society contributes to a more democratic, humanized, fairer, more tolerant and multicultural society, and that is a debate that is in society as a whole. Fifteen years ago it was said that libertarian cyberculture was allowing us to imagine - and is now allowing us to shape - new forms of political participation and even direct democracy. This is another aspect that is behind social networks, and that is important to promote that participation of citizens and that empowerment of citizens in managing the public thing. In 1996, John Perry Barlow issued a statement of cyberspace independence denying that States had to have power over electronic space. However, that is quite real right now. The reflections we have had in the Commission were in that direction, that is, what to do to respond to the challenges posed by an information society without frontiers, an information society that is constantly moving forward with new innovations, which is far ahead of the legislation. I believe that the answer given by the report is very positive, because - I must stress this - it is in contradiction with another series of actions that have taken place in this House recently. I am referring, for example, to the reform of the Penal Code, to the Mordaza Act, etc. One of the fundamental principles set out in this paper is that freedom must first and foremost be safeguarded, and that, therefore, in order to prevent possible crimes, to protect citizens as a whole, and especially minors, a fundamental principle, which is judicial control, should prevail. That is to say, no action can be taken in the field of new technologies, in the field of social networks without such prior judicial control. That is why we believe that this report is very significant, since it has achieved unanimity around this principle of safeguarding freedoms, safeguarding the right of citizens to their own privacy, of citizens' right to their own identity, also giving answers to those problems that are emerging right now in all areas, such as the problem of the supplantation of identities, and harassment in their various manifestations. In the face of this debate that always arises between security and freedom this paper has chosen to strengthen freedom, establishing preventive and guaranteed elements with this judicial control, always prior to any police action or any action from the public authorities,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u41	Mr. Larreina, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u42	It's over, Mr. President. ...to guarantee the rights of the citizenry. We believe that this is the way forward: that social networks must be an instrument for the socialization of knowledge, and for promoting a freer, more plural, and more democratic society. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. I pray silently. Those who are not interested in this debate leave the Chamber. I have the floor for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I rise to the rostrum on behalf of my group to take stock of what has been the work in this subcommittee, which has been created under the supervision of the Committee on the Interior, around social networks. But what is presented today is what is agreed - which is the result of this work - the study of safety on social networks, and that is precisely why it has been dealt with in this subcommission, under the supervision of the Commission of the Interior, because social networks and their broad globality are an enormous field of action inaccessible and with infinite possibilities of study. We have therefore focused on this work, on safety on social networks. After forty-eight appearances of positions in the institutional, governmental, political, legal, pedagogical and police fields, as well as the assistance of experts in social networks, in communication, on the Internet, etc., in addition to those of professionals and managers of companies in the field of communication, all have given a vision, each of them from a different perspective, that has been useful to us. I have to thank him because the work that has been carried out has been positive and we have almost all come to the same conclusions. Another thing will be that with these conclusions everyone makes a different reading about what measures should be taken. But in any case I believe that the main conclusion that we have reached - or that I have - is that, after all this work, we have more questions than answers. Perhaps that is not bad, because passing from the time we have lived so far, the time of the answers given, to the time of the unanswered questions is a great evolution, technological evolution. Surely ten or fifteen years ago it would have been impossible to have a debate in Parliament on social networks, and today we are naturally doing so, a sign that sometimes technological progress is being made by means to which we have to respond, and in this case it is clear that a new world has been opened, surely more hasty than we were prepared to face it, and as the progress of these advances always takes us forward, so we have to make decisions and answers when technology and use are already three or four streets ahead. A new world opens up to us that demands a new mentality for everything: a new mentality for use, a new mentality for its control, a new mentality for its security, for its understanding, and how not for its enjoyment, because ultimately social networks are a showcase of the world that in turn, like everything the world has, has the same proportionality of risks that the real world also has. We have analysed many issues, and as we deal with the issue of security, what have been the greatest problems we have detected, the greatest dangers? For there is the problem of the famous cyberiacs, there are the problems of offensive uses and contents in the network; we have seen the use of hate-inciting content, as well as the theft of intellectual property or the subject of identity supplantation. Those are dangers that exist in that new world, dangers that we will have to tackle in some way, and we will have to know how to solve that problematic situation. 50% of young people, according to the data given to us in the subcommittee, have suffered some form of cyberbullying at some point in their lives. I think it is a question that we will have to address: what is a cyberbully, how can it be done, is it easier than a normal harassment? Do you have more impunity? Can anyone access this? How do you report it? How does that situation get narrowed down? So and all, and seeing what all the problems that have been suggested have been, we have made a positive assessment of what social networks are, even considering that their safety must be something important to us. No more laws are needed, we have also come to that conclusion. No more laws are needed, with which we have enough, the problem is whether we will know how to apply them correctly or not. Education and training are the basis for social networks and their security to have a guarantee, especially in new generations and young people; our ability to use those social networks. There have also been issues that need to be addressed from the criminal point of view: the issue of child pornography is something that has not existed so far, and it is becoming increasingly apparent, and increasingly, as always, that the person who commits the crime uses more sophisticated tools so that his crime is not discovered, and there are entire networks of use of child pornography, which with the data given to us in the subcommittee...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u45	Mr. Agirretxea, you must go and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u46	...they put our chicken skin on. Therefore: identity supplantation, child pornography, criminal law. One last warning: be careful. Mr Larreina used to say that freedom can never be subject to a possible risk for security, freedom must prevail. That is why both the police and the judges must be very careful when it comes to intervening, and that is another recommendation we made in the subcommission. Finally, I have to say that it has been positive, that we must continue to develop it, because it is an area that is not over; this has only begun. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Our group believes that the work done by the subcommittee is timely, and the report is positive and with undoubtedly interesting conclusions. It is also very much to be thanked in particular for the idea that there is no need to make a social media law, because that would already be more worrying, especially because we have legislation that seems to us - it has been shown in general - rather inadequate, rather unbalanced, and quite unrealistic about what the digital world, the Internet world, is, and above all because - and with this I conclude, because my intervention wants to be very brief - poses a very serious challenge to the national states. We are talking about truly global phenomena, which are not hypotheses, but globalised material realities, and in that sense national laws are increasingly proving their impotence. We must move to the field of international collaboration and large scale projects as I say planetary. That's what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u49	Thank you very much for your conciseness and shortness, Mr Martínez Gorriaran. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that there have been two years of work, one hundred petitions for appearances, forty-eight petitions from a wide variety of fields, and I would like to start by saying that the general position of my group is going to be - as I believe we share with all the groups in the House - to vote in favour of the report. Good work has been done and our position will be favourable. The second thing I want to do is to thank Mr Conrad for his work in coordinating the group in the Commission - I think it has been magnificent and I think we should thank him - as well as the work of Mrs Rosa, the lawyer, who has also had a magnificent job in the Commission's conjunction. On behalf of my group, I would like to highlight what has already been highlighted by other speakers. The Commission does not draw the conclusion that major legal changes are necessary. We have been asked to change some issue, some article in the processing of some law, but above all the great conclusion of this Commission is that a lot of education and training is needed in all areas, from the field of children's education - we all know that social networks are used from an early age - to the judiciary, which also sees important problems in having to apply the laws in their respective field, due to the very important evolution of the whole virtual world day by day. In the end, we in the Commission have swam between a sea of conflicts of various rights: of users' rights, of copyright, which have also been dealt with, even if tangentially, in the Commission, of freedom and fundamental rights, as well as of the right to anonymity. In this sea of conflicts between various rights we have sailed in the Commission with a great deal of input, with some conclusions, and above all with a finding: the importance of the role that the Executive, the Government, has to play in the international framework when negotiating with other States in which the servers, the Internet-based companies, which have also appeared - the social media companies - and which have shown a general willingness to cooperate - must be recorded - and to work for the defence of the rights of netizens. I would also like to make my group's comments about the Spanish companies that are involved in the social media issue because of the very different framework that exists in other countries than ours; they understand that in ours they sometimes have a very complicated framework to work for, and that's why they end up doing it abroad. I would also like to stress on the part of my group - many of my fellow Members have said this - the need for better regulation or a much better use of the figure of the undercover agent. It is a basic figure for the State Security Forces and Bodies to tackle crimes that can be committed and committed on social networks; they need that figure of the protected and sufficiently qualified undercover agent. Many of the participants also spoke of the need to somehow define the subject of personality supplantation, because our legal system drinks from various articles, and that is an issue that even the jurists raised with us, apart from the fact that all the interveners told us that there was no need for a major legal change. In short, from my parliamentary group, we are left with a conclusion that many speakers have put forward: the virtual world is not substantially different from the real world; the crimes that are committed on the street are the same that can end up committing on social networks, and therefore there is no need for fundamental changes. From my group, however, we welcome the need to continue to enshrine new fundamental rights which, in the course of the 1978 Constitution, did not occupy the right place, because at that time the technique had not reached its present point, but in view of this new century in which we live the access to the Internet, the right to forget, are issues that have to be incorporated into the legislative framework as basic issues, because above all they cover the development of fundamental freedoms and rights that our legal system has historically protected. That is why we welcome the Commission's work, and we will vote in favour of the report. I finish as I started, thanking the coordinator and the lawyer for their work in the development of the work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. [[Rumors]] I would ask you to attend to the speaker. I now give the floor, for the Catalan Group, to Mr Guillaumes. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u52	I would like to congratulate you and to congratulate you; this does not abound in this House, at least from the opposition groups. As Mr Sixto said, there have been two years of work, one hundred appearances, from representatives of the most important social networks - I am not going to say names - to experts and entities concerned about the victims, and a whole range of problems, of those who really care about people. Who doubts that child harassment from the Internet generates social alarm, that many parents are concerned about this harassment, child abuse or so-called child pornography - there is no child pornography; they are pure and simply child abuse -? We are also concerned about jihadist propaganda, cyberattacks or personality supplantation that occurs on the Internet to make scams. We had a lot to talk about and two years to do it. We believe that many people are concerned about these issues and that we have shown that we are concerned about the issues that really concern people. From a theoretical point of view we have set a few definitions that neither demonize nor exalt social networks, which is ultimately what it is about. We have also talked about the training needed to address these issues, as well as legislative and executive policy changes, but from a very minimalist perspective, as Mr Sixto also said. When we are talking about a reality that we can say changes every few months, we believe that the legislative solution is not necessarily the best way. Let's hope this has a translation in practice. We are talking about a non-legislative paper, which means nothing more or less that there will not be a mandatory publication of a rule in the "BOE", so all this work, if it has to serve, will have to be based on its dissemination, so that it reaches all the people who have this concern; it will have to be based on publications; it will have to be based on making it come and also on listening to what the people who read it have to say to us. If not these two years of work would be lost. Our group insists on the need to disseminate all the work that has been done, because it has been worth it. I would not like to end without congratulating the coordinator of the group, who I think has done extraordinarily well, the lawyer, and in general all the participants. It is like a breath of fresh air that from time to time we have these presentations in which you can work together, and if you allow me the expression with such a good scroll. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are inevitably coincidences in the speeches with other speakers since the agreements of that subcommittee were adopted unanimously. Although I would like briefly to thank the forty-eight experts whom we have had the opportunity to listen to during these two years of work; the excellent work of Mrs Rosa Ripollés, who has made it possible to order a volume of information that at some point threatened to bury us and has been able to organize it so that the political decision would be a clear political decision; that of the rest of the Commission's staff; and the presidency of Conrad Escobar, who has created a flexible and cordial climate. I also wanted to recall the work of my colleagues Álvarez and Guadalupe Martín who accompanied me on behalf of the Socialist Group in that subcommittee and Professor Emilio Olabarria, who has worked for two years and is now convalescent. As colleague Guillaumes has said, it is based on a positive assessment of the phenomenon of social networks. We do not fall into any ludicrous temptation to think that this type of new techniques pose a threat, but not in the naivety, sometimes parallel, of thinking that everything that comes through a new technology is simply a good thing. There is a reasonable balance between these considerations and I would like to recall how for many people in this country who live in rural environments, in areas where there is no easy access to cultural resources, the availability of being able to talk to their favorite artist, their councillor or any other person with similar interests is a resource that is advantageously replacing the usual media. I therefore believe that it is a positive balance, although the conclusions are inevitably conclusions on the problems and that is why it may give the impression that it is a problematic world, but not. The assessment is positive even if we point out, I repeat, the problems. The model of conclusions I think is the right one, a short five- or six-page model with short sentences. We are not treatists on the issue of social networks, we are politicians and we have to aim for legal, political and administrative solutions, which is what is done in these conclusions. We have started from the idea of not making an overregulation, on the contrary. In a phenomenon such as that of networks as flexible, so mobile and so dynamic trying to propose complete regulations is doomed to failure - probably within a year or a half these conclusions should be different - hence the idea of talking about general principles, of talking about self-regulation of companies with a supervision of the administration when necessary but resorting to general principles and self-regulation. In relation to the actors who play in this field, I would like to highlight the need for coordination of administrations. There are many units of the State Administration that have to do with the phenomenon of social networks, there are many administrative units of the autonomous communities - for example, all those of education - and there is a transnational element that has been pointed out here, a phenomenon that transcends borders by its very nature, and the need for regulations or coordination, not only at European but also international level, is absolutely necessary. In addition, we need to coordinate with the management of companies, and in addition - I would like to stress this point - there are a huge number of private associations dedicated to this world that should try to coordinate or federate to have a single voice in front of the administration. In the associative world too, we must seek a certain unification of criteria. Education has been a substantial element pointed out by all. We have not fallen into a very typical arbitrariness of Spain which is that when there is a problem a curriculum is proposed. No, our idea is that digital citizenship is an element that must appear in the school curriculum in the way that is appropriate from the earliest childhood. A call must be made to the responsibility of the pupils, the parents, the figure of the reference police that is important in the schools and the teachers and teachers. The essential elements that we have monitored - as my colleague Ricardo Sixto has also said - have been the criminal aspects of our conclusions. The need always for a prior and express court order for the use of undercover agents, for the use of Trojans, for the transfer of metadata by telephone companies are essential elements that have enabled political consensus on these conclusions. I want to highlight the flexibility and in some way - as has already been said - a certain contradiction with other practices of the majority group in this legislature. There is a request to criminally regulate identity supplantation and it is reflected in the conclusions - it is an outstanding task of our criminal law such regulation of identity supplantation on social networks -. There are elements such as the right to forget especially of minors, very little aware of the trace of life they leave on social networks. There is a request for age classification of applications, which is a good system, and there is a requirement for companies to operate control systems. I set the example in Commission of how companies like Facebook are able to detect...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u55	Mr. Sanchez Love, you must go and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u56	I'm done. ... films that are on the market, or naked, and are able to automatically remove them with image recognition, and I think that you would have to use that possibility also on issues such as anorexia and bulimia. I end by thanking you for the work you have done. The work of a committee of this kind when so much is criticized the removal of politicians from the social reality, the work of this subcommittee, I repeat, like many others in Congress, is a good example of how this House is close to the problems of the citizen and is not dedicated, as we think, to other things. Thank you very much. Congratulations to everyone for a political agreement that seems to me to be important. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Amor. The last intervention remains. Please be silent so that we can hear the speaker. For the People's Group, Mr Escobar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to thank, as has already been done by all the speakers, for the work done by each and every member of the subcommittee. I'm going to save you all the enumeration because time is pressing, but I think you've done a good job. There have been different visions and a common goal: to improve freedom, to improve security and reliability on the Internet. I extend this thanks to the cordial collaboration of the forty-eight attendees, who have contributed talent and experience over two years of work. And I do not want to forget the services of the House, the Committee on the Interior, the lawyer, as has been mentioned, because thanks to their dedication, this Congress has fulfilled, and unanimously, the mandate that we granted ourselves on March 13, 2012: an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group that called for responsible use of social networks but that today is a work of all. Today - as has been said - the Congress responds to the concerns, the reflections of Spanish society on social networks. These conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, are essentially a starting point, a space for debate. The Internet and social networks constitute a new and positive paradigm that breaks down physical and administrative borders, which equals the small and the big, which is about but can also isolate, which invites to share everything but which must also protect privacy and which gives priority to immediacy in the face of reflection. We are faced with one of the most exciting challenges for the public authorities but also for the educational community, for security, for social relations. We must never forget that the network is the tool, that the Internet is the tool, but that the value we are people, that the fundamentals are rights and that the importants are people and especially the most vulnerable. The subcommission has been very mindful of these circumstances. We have incorporated references to new threats and risks: from jihadist terrorism to repugnant pederasty, new forms of anorexia, bulimia, etc. The current situation depicts a rising digital landscape: 82% of Internet users over the age of 18 use social media and 48% of all adolescents. According to studies by Miguel Hernández University, 50% of young people ever suffer from some form of cyberbullying, and 50% of adolescents use networks without parental control. On the contrary, we also need to know that the reasonable use of social networks encourages creativity, reading and makes its user a little more sociable. The subcommission, as a result of the circumstances, had to open up to platforms, to online games that are not social networks, but do introduce high-capacity connections with high potential. These conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, are addressed to the Administration as guarantor of rights and the general interest, but we also call for industry's commitment to protecting the rights of millions of Internet users; we appeal to the involvement and responsibility of the media; we call on parents and teachers to play a more active role in their training and in the training of our children. From our group we very much share some conclusions with all your ladies and gentlemen. We call for an Internet security centre for the Insafe-Europe network; we need to develop a public-private collaboration forum on the Internet; we support initiatives of international standards of labelling in parental control; we start from the premise that in the area of the Internet security always begins for itself, and this leads us to support education in digital citizenship, in values, in self-responsibility. It's not just about knowing the technology, it's about knowing its risks and taking responsibility for its use. We suggest the revision of the curricula of teachers and teachers, and we applaud the recent reform of the Criminal Code in the areas that affect the technological phenomenon. We propose to open an in-depth debate on one of the main challenges in the digital environment, I am referring to a debate on digital identity and its protection, with two specific recommendations: to adapt the Organic Law on the Right to Honor, with particular attention to vulnerable people, and to consider a future criminalization of identity supplantation. In the sectoral chapter, security and privacy should be provided as standard in ICT products and services. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that security is neither a complement nor a luxury, but it has to be a right, and that is why we call on companies in the sector. Security forces and bodies have been very successfully involved and adapted to the new digital environment. Still, we propose and suggest...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u59	Mr Escobar, you have to finish, because you already see that the House is in a situation of some effervescence. You're done now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u60	I'm in the perfect position, Mr. President. ...strengthen police resources, strengthen and implement high-priority communication channels and simplify complaint systems. These are recommendations which, obviously not by chance, have been adopted unanimously in the Committee on the Interior. This subcommittee and today the plenary propose that the Internet be no more than a free and secure space for everyone. I ended up as I started, showing my gratitude to all the groups that have worked on this subcommittee. I think we have done, modestly, a good job, but we also have to be moderately dissatisfied because there is still much to be done, but this is a good starting point. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Escobar. In a few minutes, we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u62	We shall proceed to the votes. We begin with the motion by Mrs Aríztegui of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the position of the Government on the consequences of the transatlantic agreement for trade and investment between Europe and the United States. The five points of the motion will be voted on separately in their own terms. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 132 against 178 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u63	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 132 against 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u64	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 128 against, 177 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u65	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 129 against 182.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u66	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 21 against, 276 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u67	It's rejected. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY UNION, ON THE PROPOSALS OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE CONDITION OF NATIONAL AND CRIME CLIMATE LANGUAGE AGAINST HUMANITY COMMITTED BY THE TERRORIST STATUS AND ITS POLITICAL ENTERPRISE, TO GIVE THE NEED FOR SATISFACTION AND RECOGNIZATION TO THE VICTIMS OF THE VICTIMS OF THESE VIOLATIONS MANIFIED BY THE INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND TO Satisfy THE INALITABLE RIGHT TO KNOW THE TRUTH. [[File number 173/000206]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u68	Motion by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, on the Government's aims in relation to the condemnation of national cleansing and crimes against humanity committed by the terrorist gang ETA and its political fabric, in order to give the necessary satisfaction and recognition to the victims of these gross violations of international human rights law and to satisfy the inalienable right to know the truth. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the People's Group, the Socialist Group and the Joint Group - Mrs Oramas, Mr Álvarez Sostres and Mr Salvador -. That text, which you all know, is the one that we are voting on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 276 against, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u69	The motion was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u70	Validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 4/2015 of 22 March for the urgent reform of the vocational training system for employment in the workplace. There are four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 4 telematics votes, 315; votes in favour, 180 plus 3 telematics votes, 183; against, 25; abstentions, 106 plus 1 telematics vote, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u71	It's validated. We will now vote on its handling as a bill by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 4 telematics votes, 314; 310 plus 4 telematics votes, 314.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u72	It was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u73	We will now vote on the House's request for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the management, supervision and solvency of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, which has not been debated because the amendment to the whole was withdrawn. There are 3 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 3 telematics votes, 313; 133; 176 plus 3 telematics votes, 179; abstention, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u74	You won't be called to full court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u75	Opinion on the draft organizational law on the personnel regime of the National Police. Progress Union and Democracy Amendments, Nos. 88, 89, 94, 97, 105 and 111. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 108 against 177; abstentions 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u76	They're rejected. Amendments 90, 93 and 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 14 against, 177 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u77	They're rejected. Amendment 98. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 18 against, 278 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u78	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 14 against, 271 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u79	They're rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left, numbers 3, 9, 12, 17, 28, 50, 56, 61, 75 and 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 113 against, 177 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u80	They're rejected. Amendments 5, 7, 11, 15, 16, 27, 30, 41, 54, 55, 66, 71 and 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 16 against, 177 abstentions 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u81	They're rejected. Amendment 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 109 against, 176 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u82	It's rejected. Amendments 79, 85 and 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 121 against 177; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u83	They're rejected. Amendments 80 and 82 to 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 28 against, 270 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u84	They're rejected. Amendment 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 28 against, 176 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u85	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 15 against, 270 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u86	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. Firstly, Amendments 115 and 117 to 119. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 28 against, 271 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u87	They're rejected. Amendments 116 and 121. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 122 against, 177 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u88	They're rejected. Amendment 120. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 28 against, 178 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u89	It's rejected. Rest of Convergence and Union amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 32 against, 268 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u90	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments 142, 147 and 159. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 108 against, 176 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u91	They're rejected. Amendment 154. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 94 against 185; 25 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u92	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 109 against, 177 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u93	They're rejected. We voted for the Socialist Group's particular votes. Firstly, vote No 1 on Amendment No 165. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 104 against, 177 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u94	It's rejected. Particular vote No 2 on Amendment 166. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour 108 against 177; abstentions 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u95	It's rejected. Particular vote No 3 on Amendment 167. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 109 against, 177 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u96	It's rejected. Particular vote No 4 on Amendment 168. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 109 against, 177 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u97	It's rejected. We are voting on the Commission's opinion in the light of the technical correction distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 174 against, 123 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u98	The Commission's opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u99	Overall vote on the draft organizational law on the personnel regime of the National Police, as being of an organic nature. Four votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 4 telematics votes, 310; 177 plus 3 telematics votes, 180; 120 plus 1 telematics vote, 121; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u100	The law is passed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-23-CD150423.u101	There is an agreement that we have discussed with the Commission on the Interior on the report approved by the Subcommittee on Social Media. From what the speakers have said, I believe that it can be approved by assent. Is that so? [[Consent]] It is approved by consent. The meeting rose. It was twelve thirty-five minutes from noon.
