ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to interpellations, so that the inquiry of the Socialist Group on the agenda with number 28 will begin to be discussed first. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u2	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Group amending article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. For the presentation of this initiative, you have the word Ms. Sofía Hernanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents to the House this proposal for a law, which aims to amend article 42.1 of the current Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. We want something as simple as preventing workers who are working in the same centre, with identical hours and developing the same functions from covering less, or much less, depending on whether they are hired or outsourced. Our request is very simple, it is very clear: same work, same salary. We call for the support of all parliamentary groups, because something else seems unacceptable to us. Before I begin, allow me to greet the secretaries general of the hotels federations of UGT and of the working commissions of Balearic Islands, who are accompanying us today in the rostrum, and whose organizations have been decisive in the elaboration of this initiative. Welcome to Congress. And secondly, I would like to recall that today, 28 April, the International Day of Health and Safety at Work is celebrated, which is the day that the trade union movement has marked to remind the victims of accidents and diseases caused by work and to demand the improvement of the conditions that workers endure. And, of course, today we must pay tribute to the 454 men and women who lost their lives in their jobs last year. We have a responsibility to put the instruments in place to lower that dramatic figure. But, as I said at the beginning of my speech, precisely our proposal for a law, which we Socialists are presenting today, is about the protection of workers' rights and, in a very concrete, very widespread and very damaging aspect, the brutal loss of rights that the labour reform of the People's Party has entailed for subcontracted workers. The possibility of outsourcing services is not born with the labour reform of the People's Party, but this labour reform, when it prioritizes company agreements against sectoral agreements, makes this outsourcing of services the perfect instrument to achieve one of the main hidden objectives of the Government by approving it: the reduction of workers' rights and the drastic fall in wages. I'll explain myself. Before that, the worker of a service undertaking intended for a particular work centre had to be paid the same salary as the other workers of that undertaking because he was covered by the collective agreement of the sector; now that worker will be doing the same work, but paying almost half, because he will be paying what the labour agreement of the service undertaking for which he is employed and that he will not, by chance, be almost never above the interprofessional minimum wage. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, 648.60 cents a month. The labour reform of the People's Party thus flies through the air the model of sectoral collective bargaining, prioritizes the collective agreement of its own enterprise and leaves the workers of this country at the foot of the horses. With these conditions, outsourcing companies have multiplied, making it easier for large companies to work at half prices. In this way, the wage gap between two workers who are doing the same work in the same centre and with the same day can reach up to 50%. This is the clumsy economic recovery proclaimed by the Rajoy government: the economic recovery of a few, of course, of those few in which Mr Rajoy must have been thinking yesterday when he said: Trust me, you'll do well. And in case some spokesman is tempted to repeat the government's mantra that with this labor reform at least there is work, already advance them to save it, that we no longer bite that hook. In Balearics, where I come from, we know this phenomenon very well. It is well known by the trade unions, who have been denouncing it since the adoption of this labour reform. In tourist seasons of extraordinary occupation and great business profits, situations have been detected in which, for example, a housekeeper works a year in a hotel and the following year does the same work in the same hotel but for half the salary through one of these service companies. Can anyone explain to me what justification this has? And if not to ask also the thousands of workers subcontracted by Telefónica Movistar throughout Spain and that last Thursday were manifested here, in Madrid, in protest of the savage precariousness that they are suffering, with days that exceed eight hours and wages that barely reach 600 euros; Telefónica, a company that last year declared more than 3 billion profits. This, gentlemen, is not economic recovery; this is not job creation; this is simple and purely labour exploitation. [[Applauds]] We are talking today about subcontracted workers, but the drop in wages has been widespread since the approval of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. The reality is that this brutal fall in workers' wages was one of the main objectives of their reform, and in that we must recognize them, even if only in that, that they have been tremendously effective. In this country, and according to the data provided by the Tax Agency itself, 34 % of employees receive the equivalent of the inter-professional minimum wage; I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 648 per month. Half of the employed are paid less than € 950 per month and the purchasing power of wages is at the same level as it was in the 1990s. As far as the Members of the People's Party are concerned, what I say or what seems to them to be crazy about this data, which, by the way, the Tax Agency itself provides, I invite you, for example, to go up to the cafeteria in this Chamber where we are and talk to the waiters. The other day, one of them told me that today it charges the same - the same - as thirty years ago, when he started working in Congress. Members of the People's Party, Government absent from President Rajoy, welcome to the real world, welcome to real Spain. Being a milleurist, which before the People's Party government was a problem, today is an unattainable dream for the majority of workers in this country. Outside there are more than 2 million workers who do not arrive at the end of the month, poor workers. That is the reform of the People's Party, a labour reform that has only been achieved by the precariousness of employment, the lowering of wages and the lack of protection against unemployment, but a labour reform that has very little time left, as little as this government that protects the defrauders and scams the workers. We will repeal their labour reform, do not give them the slightest doubt; it will be the first step that the next socialist government will take. [[Applauds]] But that will be in a few months, few. Today we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the consideration of this proposal for a law with which we intend to put an end to the situation in which the workers who are subcontracted in this country, who are subjected to unjustifiable inequality and are paid a wage of misery, and do so because they have no other remedy, because the People's Party has put the necessary conditions in place so that the workers' situation is so extremely weak that in order to be able to work and carry a wage at the end of the month at home they are obliged to accept any kind of conditions, even the most abusive, unequal and unjust. That's where the People's Party government wanted them, and that's where they are. Or, as you say colloquially: lentils, if you want to take them and if not, you leave them. At the beginning of my speech I reminded them that today is the International Day of Health and Safety at Work, but I do not want to come down from this rostrum without remembering another date. At the end of the 19th century the celebration of Labor Day was established internationally on May 1, in memory and tribute to a group of trade unionists who died in Chicago in 1886 for defending decent conditions for workers. Do you know what his motto was? I've been talking to you about a hundred and twenty-nine years. The motto of those workers, of those unionists who died in defense of workers' rights was as follows: Eight hours of work, eight hours of rest, eight hours of leisure. [[Applauds]] Today in our country workers are forced to accept any kind of conditions to have a salary at the end of the month. Today the workers of this country do not have a working day, they have a working day until the work is finished. That's what the four years of the People's Party government have led us to. So, ladies and gentlemen, one hundred and twenty-nine years later, live on May 1st! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Hernanz. Position-fixing turn. For the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. I shall begin by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the Galego Nationalist Block announces the vote in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Group, not only because we agree with what is said in it, although we understand that the text can be improved in the process of amendments, but because at the moment there is a reality that requires the need to make a change of these characteristics, the situation of the workers of the companies contracted or subcontracted by others, which is extremely serious. Eight days ago, I raised with the President of the Government and also with the Minister of Labour the specific situation that workers of contracted and subcontracted companies working for Telefónica are denouncing and taking to the streets. We can talk about these workers, who are currently on an indefinite strike, but we can also talk about the contracts and subcontracts that work for electricity companies, the shipbuilding sector, automobiles, etc. The conditions of these workers are draconian. The concrete case of the indefinite strike of Telefónica's subcontracts demonstrates what we are saying. It is not only under these conditions that I have just commented on, but then the labour rights that they have are not even recognized, which are recognized in the relevant sectoral and provincial agreements. Not only is the law contrary to workers' law, but then the Administration does not exercise its function of controlling those irregularities that companies make against the law, as is the case we are talking about. We therefore believe that it is important to work in the direction of not only changing the law with an initiative such as the one proposed today, but also to urge the Government to reform its labour reform, which is allowing for these enormous challenges. The People's Party Government is getting workers to be working in situations of slavery, as they themselves denounce; they are working at a standstill by the end of the month not to charge much more than the interprofessional minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, this is not a sham that we say from the Galego Nationalist Block, but the reality that is reflected in our society, in our workers. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I also say a live one not only on May 1st, but on the demands of the working class on that International Labour Day and of the working class represented on May 1st. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya is going to vote in favour of this parliamentary initiative of the Socialist Group, but we also ask you not to poop too much because I remind you that in the 2006 law, which intended to regulate subcontracting in the construction sector, we were imposed three links when we considered that with two there was enough, that there was no need to regulate up to three links in any subcontracting process. And remember the orgy in which we were installed in 2006, in the euphoria of the real estate bubble and how much sinestrality existed. At that time, we were talking about labour terrorism, taking into account the conditions in which construction professionals worked. And it is true that a step forward was taken, it is true that it was regulated that only contracts or subcontracts could be applied to people who provided specialized work, okay, but that was a scenario and now it is clear that we will support them because the current scenario is a horrific scenario. We are already settled in the jungle; in an absolute and gradual atomization of the working class. In fact, we are already entering the dialectic of self-destruction among the same workers, which leads us to the formulation that I believe no one can deny that we are already installed in a new working class that can aspire to work to be poor. As I was saying very correctly, I do not remember whether you were the socialist spokesman today or if you were a colleague of yours, it is about working to have the half-full fridge. So we're all going to one because we're in a situation that maybe five, six, seven years ago was unthinkable. You were referring to myleurism and I'm going to do a self-criticism exercise that I think should be shared by all leftist groups. If we read the electoral programmes of the left-wing groups a few years ago, we find more or less the following: We must combat the neoliberal policies of the right-wing in order not to condemn our young people to mileurism. We wrote this more or less every left just seven years ago. How many young people do you know today who work and how many young people do you know who earn a thousand euros? If five or six years ago we were where we were, where will we be in four or five years if we don't pull to the right? We are now working with brutal conditions of potential sinisterity. There is a chain of contracts that no longer compares with other scenarios and all kinds of arbitrary redundancies are being made, which is why we should state that if the strike of the workers of the companies contracted and subcontracted by Telefónica does not win, if the strike is defeated, a new model of labor relations will have been coined. Telefónica is the icon of what privatization and accelerated capital accumulation processes have meant, and I believe that no one can deny that we are installed in a new scenario in which the working class can only aspire to destroy itself. We will therefore vote in favour of this parliamentary initiative. I do not know whether the People's Group will accept it. If that were the case, we would try to work together so that something interesting would come out before the end of this legislature. And, of course, live the working class! Today, at least, we need to make a certain catharsis. Watch the working class! And I think we still have some things to share, which I think is, more than important, even exciting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course our vote will be in favour of the House taking into consideration this proposal for a law dealing with the phenomenon of subcontracting. However, I would like to comment on a few points. Following the analysis of the initiative, it should be noted from a theoretical point of view, firstly, that it is doubtful to place in article 38 of the Constitution the contracting and subcontracting insofar as this article recognizes the freedom of enterprise within the framework of the market economy, moreover invoking a much more abstract principle than that relating to the possibility of subcontracting and consecrating that the Spanish State's economy is one of the so-called free market economies and therefore a non-directive, non-corporate, non-collectivist, etc. Notwithstanding the above, we believe that the explanatory statement of the initiative clearly sets out the advantages of subcontracting: a greater degree of specialization, the qualification of workers, and positive investment in new technology, the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises mainly in large works, etc. But it is true that the problems and abuses that the so-called cascade subcontracting is raising in the labour market, even though I believe that the spokesman for the Socialist Group has later made this sufficiently clear, are not so clear. At present, pursuant to article 42.1 of the Workers'Statute and various development rules, some of which are of a regulatory nature, the so-called cascade subcontracting has been consolidated, whereby the principal contractor may perform a first subcontract, the first subcontractor may subcontract a second subcontract, and so on without any limitation as to the number of subcontracts required to be performed, since neither the principal contractor nor the successive subcontractors have to justify or substantiate the relevance of the subcontracting. In the words of Mr Olabarría, the paroxysm of cascade subcontracting is achieved precisely when one can ultimately subcontract not to a company, but to a natural person or an individual worker. It is therefore true that, despite the establishment of a system of joint liability between the principal employer and the various subcontractors, it is not uncommon that this liability cannot be exercised against any of them if it is a financial liability that in addition purports to exceed the property possibilities of all of them or that alternatively the creditors address this miscellany constituted by the principal employer, the contractor, the subcontractors or the individual person himself seeking which of them has sufficient means to face the proper responsibility. Then, if he can, the pagan will already repeat against the others. Consequently, the unlimited extension of contracts and subcontracts inexorably results in the perverse effect that the more subcontracts are subcontracted, the more the conditions of workers are degraded - as has been moved here -: wage conditions, hourly conditions, rest conditions and those relating to the prevention of occupational risks. Several reports by the Labour Inspectorate believe that a percentage likely to exceed 30 per cent of labour losses derive precisely from this subcontracting mechanism, from this continuous subcontracting, which progressively reduces compliance with the requirements of labour standards and in particular those of the Labour Risk Prevention Act. This, I think, should also be made clear. On the other hand, the possibility of temporary labour companies being able to participate in the subcontracting process following Law 29/1999 of 16 July does not ensure that the workers transferred the essential working conditions of the company, which contributes to aggravating the objective situation of continuous subcontracting. It is also indisputable that the deregulation of the system of contracts and subcontracts added to the deregulation committed in general for the entire labour market through Law 3/2012 of 6 July has a perverse, negative effect on employment, because both the principal undertaking and the contractor and the subcontractors will obviously adjust their staff to the needs of a way of working which can materially disintegrate the system, since one party can organize it the main part, the other, the contract and the other, the subcontracts. As this form of behaviour is widespread, none of them will need, this is particularly serious, excessive size templates or alternatively they will be able to reduce the size of their templates depending on this circumstance. For all that, the single article of the proposed law is acceptable, but we will also tell you that it is modest to solve the problems that affect subcontracting and that have succinctly been cited throughout the exhibition. It is reasonable that it is the same social object of the principal undertaking, the contractor and the subcontractor, and it is equally reasonable that the working conditions for all of them be guaranteed. But for this - this is where we understand that it is better, so if this proposal is voted on favourably - we will help you to enrich it - not only is it worth a regulatory reform like the one proposed, but it is also necessary - Mrs Olaia Fernández has pointed out - a forceful inspection action that avoids what has already been a perversion within the labour market. In any case, and despite this nuance, as I said to you, the Basque Group will support the consideration of this bill. Thank you very much and enjoy the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. Mr Anchuelo has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal for a law brought to us by the Socialist Party has, in our view, a sound aspect, and is that it does not demonize subcontracting, does not demonize outsourcing or at least does not do so in the written text, although the intervener has not put much emphasis on the subject. It is right not to demonize outsourcing because it is a competitive instrument that companies all over the world use today. Imagine your ladies and gentlemen a medium-sized company that does not have adequate resources to have a quality internal human resources service or a computer service or an accounting service... By outsourcing it, it increases the quality of these services, allows other companies - often SMEs - to participate in this activity and improves their competitiveness. Outsourcing is an instrument for improving competitiveness that is used around the world, so it would not make sense for us to deprive Spanish companies of this possibility that all their competitors use and that has, if properly applied, positive effects. What is different is to avoid the abuses of this phenomenon of subcontracting, which exist and just to look at the social reality that surrounds us. Subcontracting doesn't have to involve a deterioration of working conditions, but often involves it; subcontracting doesn't have to involve a worse quality of service for customers, but often happens - let's think about customer service activities, maintenance, let's think about the strike that Telefónica Movistar workers are doing these days. However, these abuses, as previous speakers have pointed out, are not always due to flaws in the legislation, often due to abuses, to bad practices that the legislation prohibits. That is why, now that the Labour Inspection Bill is being dealt with in this House, it seems to us a good opportunity to remember this and to remember that the labour inspection needs resources and that these must be properly allocated, inter alia, to combat this type of practice, so there are problems that have nothing to do with the legislation, but with the failure to comply with the legislation. This does not mean that from my group we are opposed to reforming legislation where it can be improved. For example, I would like to recall that we had a certain role to play in a legislative change that affected the subcontracting sector in a significant way, but not on the subject that you raise. One of our amendments was the first to bring to this House that in the payment mechanisms to suppliers it was important that when the main supplier was paid, the subcontractors were informed so that they would also be charged, something that should be generalized to the payments of all administrations and not just those relating to the extraordinary liquidity mechanisms. Welcome are therefore the legislative changes to improve defects in our system. By entering into your concrete proposal, I will say that we share the essential philosophy of that proposal, that is, that similar workers performing similar functions have to share essentially similar conditions. That is a philosophy that is difficult to not share, of pure common sense: similar workers carry out similar activities and must have relatively similar conditions. What happens is that you are not posing exactly that, but something much more drastic which is total and complete equality by legal imperative, total equality by legal imperative. That radical proposal has many drawbacks: some have to do with freedom of enterprise - we are talking about workers working for different companies - they have to do with collective bargaining; we can be talking about different sectors of activity. Basically our discrepancy has to do with the approach, because you go to the final result and say: the final result we do not like and, by legal imperative, we force the final result to be full equality. We would change the approach and ask ourselves: What if these workers have similar skills and work in similar activities, why do they have such wage discrepancies, where is the root of that discrepancy? Because if the labour market worked well and collective bargaining worked well, the conditions alone would be relatively similar, that is to say that the root of the problems lies, in our view, in some aspects of labour reform: the imbalance in labour relations that has generated between employers and workers, the precarious working conditions and wages that it has caused. Therefore, we would be more in favour of going to the root of these problems in such a way that, naturally, conditions are matched, than not forgetting these issues and going to the end of the link and saying: we are going, by legal imperative, to force a total equality with all the drawbacks that this may have. Let us not forget, on the other hand, that this outsourcing often has an international component, that is, there may be workers even from other countries. Finally, you are putting forward a proposal which we share, as I say, the spirit but not the specific details. In any case, what the House is being asked at this time is whether it accepts the consideration, whether it agrees to discuss this situation of subcontracted workers and, therefore, our vote will be affirmative. If this were to be dealt with in the debate, we would raise these kinds of questions in order to achieve a result similar to that which you propose, but by ways which we believe to be more efficient and less interventionist. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group gives us a great opportunity to discuss in this House one of the factors that today most favors job insecurity in Spain, which is subcontracting. And although it seems short, and we will explain it, we will vote in favour of its consideration. Subcontracting is today one of the main highways through which the strategy of precarious employment is channelled in Spain. Subcontracting is now intertwined, beyond theories, with the main sign of identity of dominant financial capitalism, which is that risks and costs are outsourced to third parties. For a long time we have heard - I assume - that the entrepreneur is an entrepreneur who takes risks to promote a project, and that is true, but what he does today is not entrepreneurs who take risks - that there are and good ones - what he does today are capitalists who outsource their risks to third parties: the environment, society, other smaller companies, the workers themselves and, in the last link, the bogus self-employed. That is why a strategy of productive disintegration, of outsourcing the production of goods and services from central companies to peripheral companies has been imposed. This allows these central companies - large corporations that control the market and products of goods and services - to outsource production to other companies and, through them, to impose labor policies of total precariousness. They also break the cohesion of the workers themselves, and so on many occasions they achieve their goal of confronting each other. That is today's true reality, beyond theories about good subcontracting or bad subcontracting. It is true that subcontracting is presented as a mechanism to improve efficiency and to have it, there is. There are subcontracting mechanisms that, like good cholesterol, allow to improve specialization and productivity, but unfortunately what prevails today is bad cholesterol, subcontracting as a mechanism of precarious working conditions, which is not done in the workers of the central company, but it radiates to the workers of the peripheral companies and, lastly, to the self-employed worker who thus becomes a self-exploiting self, although you in great words call him self-entrepreneur. Well, that is the reality that we must address and we must do so from the very clear perspective that this autonomous - we are seeing it in some conflict today - becomes a person who does not have the slightest capacity to decide his working conditions, not even through collective bargaining because they have denied it as such. We are seeing it these days with the conflict of the workers of the contracts of Movistar, Telefónica. Who controls the product and the market is a large oligopoly corporation that is Movistar, but who provides an important part of Movistar's own services are contracted, subcontracted, subcontracted subcontracted companies and, in the end, is the autonomous, exploding itself in a scandalous and shameful way. We do not pursue a quality of service objective - we know very well the users of some of these companies - but the objective of expanding profits to distribute more dividends and expand Alierta's fortune and all its clique, because that is the fundamental objective of that strategy. That's very well known by the compañeros and compañeras... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, standing, shows signs reading: Solidarity with the workers of the Movistar subcontracts]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u14	Mr. Coscubala, I'm going to cut you off because you're seconded. You have to withdraw those papers. I call them to order for the first time; remove the papers. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left continue to show the posters]] I'll call you to order for the second time. If they don't pull them out, I'll have to kick them out. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left withdraws the posters and occupies its seats]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u15	Subcontracting, in addition to causing injustice and inequality in working conditions, is at the root of much of the occupational risks and diseases. In whatever data you analyze you will see that subcontracted companies multiply these occupational risks and diseases by a lot because they are in the weak link of the employment relationship. They are also a clear element of economic inefficiency. They have already detected this in some companies in the United States and Canada that have had to re-integrate their production process, because it was precisely the subcontracting processes that prevented the basic control of the quality of products and goods. That is the unfortunate reality of our country, which is based on a dominant business culture - I do not say that it is the only one, but it is dominant - to make precariousness, on the basis of the degradation of working conditions, the main competitive element, and this has been brutally aggravated by the labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence i Unió, which has generated a climate of social impunity that implies behaviors peculiar to slavery. If not, how can it be understood that an employer has dared to propose that 30% of the wage be remunerated with cans of canning? If this situation of impunity is not created, no one can dare to do so, and that has been promoted by you with this labor reform that makes some entrepreneurs believe that everything is possible, even going back to the 18th century. [[Applauds]] Precarity is very difficult to fight because it acts like a bacterium, it moves with a great capacity for mutation, and trade unionists know it, because every time they apply with their union struggle a legislative change, an antibiotic in the form of regulation, the bacterium of mutate precariousness. For example, with the 1994 labour reform, when Felipe González's government came to approve the most precarious TTE model in Europe, for six years companies used TTEs as an element of precariousness. After a six-year union struggle, equal pay was achieved. [[Applauds]] And what did the leading companies do? They changed the precariousness. How? Stopping the use of ETTs and switching to the use of comprehensive service companies and subcontracting. That's the reality today. That is why we welcome the Socialist Group's initiative. I want to insist on one point. So I am saying it may seem that, since subcontracting as a precarious strategy is part of the dominant genetics of this country's business model, nothing can be done from the legislative point of view. Yeah, you can do a lot of things. And in these thirty years we have in labor legislation countless examples of positive actions that have discouraged abusive subcontracting and also negative actions. For example, the Subcontracting Regulation Act of 2006 is positive, which, although it was short, limited the use of chain subcontracting and, from that point of view, is a clearly positive regulatory factor. A negative element? For example, when Don Felipe González - again appears Don Felipe González -, in the 1994 reform - again appears the disastrous 1994 reform - it occurred to him that all self-employed transporters were presumed to be self-sufficient. Those came from a spectacular trade union struggle of the workers, false self-employed, of transport; they had even obtained rulings from the Supreme Court which recognized them as false self-employed and therefore as wage workers. And the transport lobby got the government to legislate in its favor at that time. Result? Another element not only of injustice and degradation of working conditions, but also of economic inefficiency. Have you wondered why we have the most inefficient logistics model in Europe, which is based on the intensive use of road transport, with trucks and self-sustaining vehicles that self-exploit and outsource inefficiencies in terms of the environment and even road safety programmes? Because self-exploitation as self-sustaining and under that abusive subcontracting mechanism is cheap. Why? Because the consequences are paid by others. And that is also a factor in which in Spain, for example, rail transport as a logistical element is lagging behind, because there are efficiencies and inefficiencies. I say again that our group is going to vote in favour of this initiative, but let me tell you that it seems to us to be short, and we propose that we address this issue with five sensible proposals that are being implemented in some places in our environment. First, limit chain subcontracting, restricting the possibility of subcontracting. Secondly, prohibit subcontracting in those activities that may pose an increased risk to occupational health, public health or the environment. Thirdly, to restrict subcontracting in the field of public service as efforts are being made, for example, to regulate training for employment. Fourthly, to ensure equal pay for the workers of the main undertaking and those of the subcontracted undertaking for the same work or for work of equal value. It is a feminist claim and conquest that can be transferred to the working class as a whole and that we should apply. And, fifth, to establish the responsibility of the main company in relation to subcontracted companies; it must be a solidarity responsibility, without distinguishing between whether or not it is the company's own activity, because that is currently a fallacy. Since they're here, I'll give you an example that they know very well. What is the main company's own business right now? The owner of a hotel gives his management to a company that is dedicated to managing. The manager decides to commission the work of housekeepers to another different company. For what? In order to overcome the hospitality agreement, which over many years has managed to dignify working conditions, they are expelled from the protection of the hospitality agreement and move to a lower level. Two maids of flats, for doing the same job, can charge wages with a differential of 30 or 40%. That is what can be avoided by the equal pay proposed here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one very important thing from that point of view is that the responsibility of the main company must be for all concepts, because otherwise we will be encouraging the use of bad cholesterol. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we are delighted that you are committed to making labour reform the first objective in a future left-wing government. We have put forward a non-legislative proposal with five strategic lines and I just want to make you see - without acrid, of course - that in order to make that proposal, you will have to submit a reform to all the labour reforms made in Spain since 1984; that is, to think about it. I agree, but think about it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u16	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr Campuzano has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has kindly presented to us this proposal for a law amending Article 42.1 precisely on 28 April, when the ILO convened an act to commemorate the International Day of Labour Security - this noon we have agreed with Mr Coscubiela on that act - and we have also reminded the victims of accidents at work and, therefore, we appreciate the reference made to this day by the spokesman for the Socialist Group. I have to announce my group's vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration, which does not mean that we should share the wording with all the precision that your group makes us - if the Group of the European People's Party takes it into consideration, we could go into depth on these issues - and that we should not even finish sharing the diagnosis they make in the explanatory statement or the one made in their speech by the spokesman for the Socialist Group. We agree that there have been problems and abuses in subcontracting for quite a number of years and it is appropriate to open up a legislative process, a political debate and a social debate to better regulate subcontracting. On that issue, in federal terms we would agree. Moreover, I even remember a conversation with Mr Coscubiela in his previous life as secretary general of the National Workers' Commission of Catalonia, in which, as a result of the agreements of Convergence i Union with the People's Party, we equate the salaries of the workers on mission of the TTEs in the companies where they were going to work in that legislature; Mr Coscubiela in that previous life - in which he was also a very lucid man - told us: you have improved the regulation of temporary work companies, you will allow in this matter the service companies to continue to play the same role that you have tried to avoid through temporary work companies. That may have happened in some sectors of our economy and hence the need to address that debate. However, when I heard the Socialist Group's spokesman, I saw that he had introduced two elements and I would like to see them sitting at least in this afternoon's debate. It has linked this discussion to wage devaluation and criticism of the 2012 reform, including the reforms adopted in the socialist government's time in the last legislature. And here my group wants to remind Paul Krugman, who said that if Spain wanted to improve its competitive position between 2008 and 2015, it had to lower wages. I quote Paul Krugman, who is left-wing economist, neokeynesian - his progressive credentials no one can discuss -, who said that that's what it was about to do. But now it is time to turn it around: that today, already in 2015, our improvement in competitiveness cannot depend on lowering wages but on the training of our workers, on the technological investment of our companies and on the creation of a stronger business fabric. In this respect, in the Socialist Group's reflection, we need to better regulate subcontracting, but we need to regulate it well in order to avoid weakening our business fabric. Any regulation in the field of work at the time when we live in the twenty-first century, in the times of globalization, cannot have the nostalgia to believe that the old regulations that worked in the times of closed and unintegrated economies were useful to us. Regulation must therefore be smart to protect workers' rights, where it should be the priority, and not to prevent the proper use of subcontracting, for example in the industrial sector. In Catalonia much of the automotive sector subcontracts activities to other industrial companies, and this has allowed us to have a fabric of internationalized and competitive SMEs working in collaboration with the major car matrices in Catalonia. Therefore, denouncing sub-contracting in generic terms would be a very serious mistake for quality employment in the industrial sector. At the same time, it has linked part of this discussion to elements of greater discrepancy that we had with the People's Party during the 2012 labor reform, which is the primacy of the company agreement. Business agreements in medium and large companies have been and can be useful. It is precisely in the automotive sector that we have very good examples, such as negotiation between employers and workers within the company, which has allowed flexibility and security to be introduced. We were cautious and critical of that proposal by the People's Group because this affect of collective bargaining at enterprise level could lead us into a race of competition, but not into a better productivity or competitiveness of the company, but simply into wages. I do not know whether the problem is in relation to what you are asking us or whether the problem is in that abuse of subcontracting you are trying to regulate. In any case, welcome be your initiative, welcome be the debate and hope that we will be able to address the substantive issues. We were concerned, and concerned at the same time, that the origin of this initiative would have a Catalan tone and shoot closely linked to the needs of the hospitality and abuse sector, so you have told us, which are taking place in the Balearic Islands. My group values that subcontracting involving ancillary services, which the company understands is good for another more specialized company to do. We could discuss whether there are companies that continue to develop these strategies to lower costs or whether there are companies that are back and decide that this is not their strategy. In any case, the labour law must allow the company to carry out this activity, the outsourcing of services that are not its own. In this sense, if we were in the process of drafting amendments, perhaps we would get into a more substantive discussion, that is, whether such regulation should also allow companies to use subcontracting not only to reduce costs, but to give greater added value to the product they are making. The experts tell us that this does not happen so often and that the strategy of subcontracting is certainly a strategy more associated with cost reduction than with improving the quality of the product, to bring greater value. That reaffirms us in the idea that with the regulation we are being proposed to be as prudent as possible. This is the typical question - and I conclude with that, Mr President - in which the ideal would be that this regulation would be the result of a great deal of agreement with the social partners, and that in addition in that regulation we would give the collective bargaining a wide margin of action, because hardly in the Workers' Statute we will be able to regulate, under all conditions, very different economic sectors such as the hospitality sector of the Balearic Islands or the automotive sector in Catalonia. In any case, welcome is our debate and will count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Álvarez-Arenas has the floor for the People's Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to establish the position of our group with regard to taking into consideration the Socialist Group's proposal for a law to amend Article 42. The Workers'Statute. I have to start by saying that here we have ended up talking about things that basically have not much to do with the content of the bill that is being brought to us today. I am going to confine myself to that content of what we are being asked to consider today. I begin this speech by saying that the text that they bring to the debate has several characteristics: first, it is a pure contradiction in itself, between the explanatory statement and the only article in this proposal. Secondly, it violates the freedom of enterprise established in article 38 of the Constitution. Third, it creates legal uncertainty. Fourthly, it undermines the freedom of collective sectoral or enterprise bargaining, which already exists long ago, by the way, nor has it been generated in labour reform. Fourthly, it does not know the reality of the outsourcing of works and services and undermines the interests of workers. Now I am going to explain each of these issues. First, it is a pure contradiction, because they say different things in the statement of reasons from which they then include in the article, in the only article, as I will explain. Secondly, it violates the freedom of enterprise enshrined in article 38 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law in its first paragraph of the explanatory statement, rightly, as it cannot be otherwise, literally quotes from the Constitution: Article 38 of the Spanish Constitution recognizes the freedom of enterprise within the framework of the market economy, mandates the public authorities to guarantee and protect its exercise taking into account the defence of productivity and the requirements of the economy in general. You continue in your explanatory statement, in a second paragraph, saying: Within the content of the said freedom is understood the power to direct and organize the business activity that entrepreneurs have, being one of its manifestations the contracting and subcontracting of the activity itself - own activity, let us remember it - business. This outsourcing of the activity itself is lawful, like any form of business organization. For in the articulation of the proposal of law they contradict all these principles. They nullify the organisational capacity of companies providing services through outsourcing contracts, by forcing them to maintain the same conditions as the main company, but not only wages, even in the organization of working time, at breaks, i.e. they cannot direct their business, they must maintain what the company for which they are now going to provide their services was providing, they cannot even give their own know-how in the provision of services that they know perfectly well. In practice, you suppress business as such, because you even compare it to ETTs. This is the key to the mistake. This shows of course a real lack of awareness of the functioning of the modern economy, where specialization is a reality and where the outsourcing of services has nothing to do with the activity of the TTEs, which do provide workers, i.e. people, to the main company, leaving them under the direction and organization of that company in which they temporarily perform the same tasks - in this case they do - to other workers dependent on it. But the essence of outsourcing is precisely the ability of the companies providing these services to organize, to use material and human resources. This is settled by case law, which is a fundamental element in distinguishing outsourcing: that the company providing them must have human and material means and a sufficient business organization to be hired for the provision of such services. Therefore, let us not confuse because, I insist, there is too much jurisprudence and control on the part of the Labour Inspectorate. With this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, you end up with the possibility of outsourcing. As regards legal uncertainty, with regard to the definition of the concept of one's own activity, it should be pointed out that - as you say in the proposal for a law - that concept has been defined and clarified by case law, so that today quite a few of the assumptions that had been made have already been resolved. In any case, you formulate in your proposal of law the description of your own activity saying that it is the one that corresponds to all or any of the principal or nuclear activities of the principal entrepreneur. In many cases it should also be the object of this same contribution which you make of interpretation by the judicial bodies, since it should be assessed whether an activity is principal or non-nuclear, with which we do not advance anything; on the contrary, let us reverse, since there is jurisprudence of the Supreme Court in relation to the activity itself which introduces an issue that needs much more delimitation, such as the indispensability of that work or service, which belongs to the productive cycle of the main enterprise, that is, that without that service the main enterprise could not function. You generate more legal uncertainty with this initiative. The importance of this decision should also be noted. It relates to article 42 of the Workers'Statute, which includes liability for wage debts. This contribution of indispensableity is very important to determine whether we really are in a case of legal outsourcing and, therefore, the responsibilities that are then specified in article 42.2 of the Workers' Statute, where the liability for wage debts incurred with workers or with Social Security by the contractor or subcontractor company is collected, in such a way that according to that article, the joint responsibility of the principal employer for the debts that those companies may have contracted during the period of validity of the contract can be declared. Moreover, this measure has been reinforced, as all honourable Members will recall, by the adoption of Law 13/2012 of 26 December 2012 on combating irregular employment and labour fraud to Social Security, extending this responsibility to three years. This amendment therefore affects the Workers' Statute in its Article 42 and the Lisos. Therefore, Socialists, you are confusing what the ETT is about and the problem that has arisen at the beginning, and there is a very clear difference, I have already told you: the ETTs hire people, and what we are talking about here, the ETTs have it very clearly. There is already a great deal of jurisprudence on the illegal transfer of workers, which was certainly all sufficiently clarified and standardised in the first collective agreement of the TTEs. But what you propose in this initiative is totally different, because you hire works or services, you value those works or services and you lend yourselves, as I have said, to the organization itself human and material means and to the management of that contractor. This is an indispensable condition, I insist, with very extensive jurisprudence. I agree with Mr Anchuelo who has said that, perhaps, what needs to be done is to check that this is the case. But that definition is clearly established and there is no doubt as to what constitutes an issue such as the illegal transfer of workers or the provision of a service. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you are attacking the freedom of collective bargaining of sectors or companies. I'm sorry, the company agreement, I have already said that and I agree with Mr Campuzano, has been in existence for a very long time. It has not only been brought about by labour reform, neither yours nor ours. Do you know the collective agreements that exist in the field of outsourced works and services? You of a feather load them and put them all in the main company agreement. And what happens when there is no category of service provided by the contracted undertaking in the main undertaking agreement? What if the main company agreement has lower wages than those of the contracted company? These cases exist, ladies and gentlemen, but you do not know the reality of the street, the reality of companies, and you manipulate workers' rights with two eloquent phrases. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I heard the Secretary-General of the Socialists, Mr Sánchez, say that this law is a reform of the Workers' Statute to approve the conditions of those hired and subcontracted, and it seemed to me to be an enormous exercise of ignorance and demagogy. [[Rumors]] With this proposal you seem to forget that the current labour regulations already set out issues such as those which you include, as if you have just discovered, to approve the workers of the main company and the contracted one, as if you were adding social rights. The last paragraph mentions essential working and employment conditions such as maternity protection, breastfeeding, paternity and occupational risks. You do not know that these rights are unavailable without negotiation on them and protect all workers equally, regardless of the collective or company agreement applicable to them. They also seem to forget that in the current labour legislation there are already established minimums of compulsory compliance, whether legal or regulatory, as well as improvement of the previous conventions, i.e. collective sectoral or enterprise agreements, to which I referred earlier, which set out the working and employment conditions that the socialist text defines as essential. But, Your Honor, let's go back to your contradiction. In addition to all this, the principle of freedom of enterprise, which you yourself mentioned in your explanatory statement, must also prevail, so that it will be up to each company and within the framework of their respective collective negotiations to determine the conditions of employment such as wages, working conditions, time and so on. It should be added to this that in a process of outsourcing a work or service, workers who, in their case, had performed services in the main undertaking pass on to the contracted undertaking with the same conditions and rights as they have in their contract. This is absolutely guaranteed, of course in the law but also verified and supported by a large number of judgments and jurisprudence. And I say that in their case - and I have said in their case - they move from the main company to the contract because it is increasingly direct outsourcing and not subrogated, because the companies are born to devote themselves to their main activity and everything else, indispensable as the Supreme Court says for them to carry out that activity, they subcontract it. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 42 of the Workers' Statute has always recognised this entrepreneurial reality which has been in force since the 1980s. The changes that have taken place, such as the one we have mentioned and others that can be given or that have been approved, affect the greatest social guarantees for workers, but not by de facto preventing, as you do, the existence of these types of companies, because with what you do, you effectively nullify the capacity for them to exist. You nullify the outsourcing of services, which make the main activity of the vast majority of companies that have to compete in a globalised economy more rational, more efficient, more competitive. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a new socialist initiative which, moreover, sets us as an example in the same sector of hospitality - the representative of the Socialist Group has also said this - and they recognise in this statement of reasons that the hotel industry has begun before anyone else the process of economic recovery - they recognize it - and that is where outsourcing is spreading. Then there's something that seems to work. To end this, to stop creating jobs and to affect a sector as important to the Spanish economy as the tourism sector! You are always making positive contributions to the general interests of the Spaniards and, in particular, to economic growth and job creation! This, I insist, is a new socialist initiative that would lead us to the closure of a multitude of companies and the dismissal of a great many workers. But this is not a characteristic different from the rest of your proposals and your management when you have had or have responsibilities of government: closure of businesses and generation of unemployment is exactly the same as the Socialist Party. Therefore, we are not going to proceed to take this bill into consideration. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July 2001 approving the text of the water law. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/000196]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u20	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July approving the consolidated text of the Water Act. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr Agirretxea has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Basque Parliamentary Group is presenting to this House a proposal for a law amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 approving the consolidated text of the Water Act for consideration. With this in mind, our proposal is subject to the inclusion of a new provision additional to the said royal legislative decree which, given the technical and morphological characteristics, considers the basin of the Nervion-Ibaizábal, which extends within the territorial scope of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as an intra-Community basin of that autonomous community. That is what we call for to be included in the famous royal legislative decree for consideration. Why are we proposing this? What are the reasons that make my group present this proposal? For fundamental reasons. One, for justice, because for reasons that I will argue later is a basin that runs in its entirety through the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and, therefore, must be considered as such, intra-Community. Our request is legal, legal and there are rulings of the Constitutional Court that uphold this decision. And two, for efficiency and good management, because in a basin of a river and its tributaries that run entirely in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country occur Kafkian situations, like that they have to be decided in Oviedo, when it does not affect, influence or lighten the management and, moreover, hinders and hinders any management that is done around this issue, because it is taken at the headquarters of the Hydrographic Confederation of the Cantabrian. The Spanish Constitution, in its article 149.1.22.a, recognizes the exclusive competence of the State in the field of legislation, management and allocation of resources and hydraulic exploitation when the water flows through more than one autonomous community. Article 10.11 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country confers on the Basque Autonomous Community exclusive competence in the field of hydraulic exploitation, canals and irrigation when the waters flow entirely within the Basque Country, as well as in mineral, thermal and groundwater waters. According to the doctrine of the Constitution on the jurisdictional distribution of waters, there is a judgement of the Constitutional Court, 227/1988, which articulates on the territorial principle of basin, according to which the waters that transcend the territory of an autonomous community will be the competence of the State, and vice versa, those that do not exceed the autonomous territorial scope, that is, the intra-Community basins will be the competence of the autonomous communities. So far, very clear. Constitutional case-law, in paragraph 16 of judgment 227/1988, has applied the same territorial criterion of jurisdiction to all waters, whether surface or groundwater, but with the nuance that the latter, the groundwaters, must have the condition that they are renewable waters. The ownership of competition in renewable groundwater is therefore linked to the river basin criterion, so that the inter- or intra-Community basin criterion for the purpose of jurisdictional attribution applies to them. And article 16 of the consolidated Waters Act, together with the definition of watershed, also establishes the principle of indivisibility of watershed management, indivisibility. However, there are certain stretches of extended groundwater as defined in point (c) of Article 40a which do not actually contribute or form part of the dynamics of the main watershed due to their special specific physical and socio-economic characteristics. I return to the constitutional case law, in this case the judgment of the Constitutional Court 227/1988, in its legal basis 16, which has admitted that in determining the territorial criterion for the distribution of competence in the field of water, when the Constitution uses the term "waters" it does not necessarily take into account isolated flows or courses, nor does it oblige to divide the powers over the different sections of the same rivercourse; what is required is that there is in no case a fragmentation of the management of the intercommunal waters of each rivercourse and its tributaries, judgment of the Constitutional Court 32/2011, in the legal basis 6, and that the management model adopted ensures the rational use of natural resources. The competitive distribution model should prevent uses and exploitation in the territory of the various autonomous communities through which the waters pass from establishing the possibilities for using the flows of the same main channels and accessories when crossing the territory of other communities or on inter-Community river courses. After all these legal bases, let's get to the case. Why do we say all this? Because the area corresponding to the birth of the Nerbioi River and its environment has specific physical and socio-economic characteristics in relation to the Nerbioi-Ibaizabal basin that prevent the Basque territory of this basin from being considered as an inter-community basin. On the one hand, the section of the birth proper of the Nerbioi River corresponds to an area entirely inserted in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country: the lands of Guibijo and Guillarte, which is where in moments of precipitation brings the waters that produce the Delika jump and the springs located in his throat. If you know the place, you'll know it's spectacular. Both the water jump and the Delika canyon formed after its fall are found in the territory of Araba, as certified by the geographical information system of agricultural plots of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment. On the other hand, to the west, there are three small bodies of water, without any channel or surface runoff, underground, located in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Castile and León, which total a total of 9 square kilometres; 9 square kilometres underground, without any surface runoff and without channel. In these three areas there is no use of surface water nor can there be any use of surface water since it is a high area of infiltration. Nor is there any settlement or farm or livestock farm. Moreover - and we consider this to be very important - the groundwaters that are infiltrated in them do not contribute or divulge towards the Nerbioi basin - meet what the Constitutional Court's ruling says - but do so towards the valley of Losa, in the Jerea basin, a tributary of the Ebro. These waters infiltrate the land of Castile and León and contribute to the Ebro basin in Castilian territory, and are not part in any way of the functional hydrological unit of the Nerbioi-Ibaizabal basin, which extends entirely through Basque land. It is clear that in the face of this data it is technically impossible and reasonably possible to maintain that the surface of the Nervion actually contributes or forms part of the dynamics of the large whole of the basin of the Ibaizábal. On the contrary, this basin should be regarded for all purposes as an intra-Community basin, within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, over which it should exercise exclusive competence within the river basin of the Eastern but intra-Community Cantabria. This fact is even more indisputable if we look at the situation of some other basin of the State in which the interpretation that has prevailed is contrary to that in the case of the Nerbioi, when the circumstances of that one were much less consistent, and I will cite the example: in the basin called Rambla de Canales, a tributary on the left of the Almanzora river, 1.73 kilometers from its mouth in the Mediterranean, far from the reach of the tides, which on that coast reach moderate rates. The Rambla de Canales is born in the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia and goes into that of Andalusia until it flows into the river Almanzora, which until that confluence extends exclusively through Andalusian territory. If the Rambla de Canales had been held, as it is in reality, by a tributary of the Almanzora, the whole of that basin would have been considered as intercommunal necessarily, no longer being under the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, to become under state competition. On the contrary, it was decided to consider it a separate basin from that of the Almanzora and it was incorporated into the Hydrographic Confederation of the Segura, on an intercommunal basis, for extending through the territories of the autonomous communities of the Region of Murcia and Andalusia. This strange decision is even more unusual if you observe the set of characteristics of the famous Rambla de Canales, which are: its surface is close to 300 square kilometers; it is a tributary of the Almanzora River, 1.73 kilometers from the mouth of the Mediterranean; it extends through lands of three Almerian municipalities - Huercal-Overa, Pulpí and Cuevas de Almanzora - and two Murian municipalities - Lorca and Águilas -; it is intercommunal. Its population in different nuclei exceeds 15,000 inhabitants. There is a great deal of economic production and agricultural activity linked to important uses and uses of water for irrigation, and there have been serious episodes of flooding with serious damage. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between the nature and characteristics of the Rambla de Canales, which could compromise the whole of the Almanzora basin, and those of the three small underground areas, without course, which have in Burgos lands what some say is the Nervion, which have carried competitively to the Ibaizábal basin, is notorious. The whole of the Ibaizábal basin should be reasonably considered as intra-Community, internal to the autonomous community of the Basque Country even without taking into account the circumstances of the decision taken with the Rambla de Canales and the Almanzora, much more dubious. But if the two cases are compared, it is not possible to deny the internal character of the basin to that of the Ibaizabal or that of the Nerbioi, and at the same time to grant it to that of the Almanzora. For this reason, the Nerbioi-Ibaizabal basin, in the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, must be considered as an intra-Community catchment area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the purpose of competition distribution, without the waters of that territorial area exceeding that of the said community. We therefore call for your support in this consideration. The Nerbioi-Ibaizabal runs through Basque territory, is a river - if I may say so - Basque. Those who are going to vote against this consideration will have to say what the reasons are; we are not going to make this a political cause when we are talking about purely hydrographic causes. If anyone sees a new Treviño in this, he's totally wrong. The decision must be technical, the decision must be legal; the rulings of the Constitutional Court attest to this. The case I put you on the Almanzora River I think is obvious. Therefore, I suppose you will be perfectly able to respond to the request of the Basque Group, which is legal and in turn much more efficient. The work of the Government must be efficient, and in this case we call for efficiency, because if the management of this basin is in the hands of those closest to it, those who perfectly meet the needs of those who have these problems, it will be much better. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Errekondo has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Amaiur is going to support this initiative because it understands that the petitions contained in it are perfectly legitimate in the terms set out in the current legislation. To this day, the jurisdiction over the management of the Nerbioi-Ibaizabal basin is in the hands of the State, specifically the Cantabrian Hydrographic Confederation. In other words, the entire hydrographic system that passes through the autonomous community is managed from Oviedo, with the problems that this brings. This is because the State makes an interested interpretation of the legislation, since it is fully aware that this small part of the basin that crosses the boundaries of the Autonomous Community of Castile and León is groundwater and that they do not go to the Nerbioi basin but in the opposite direction. As a result, the Basque institutions, instead of taking charge of the criteria and the complete management of the Nervión hydrological system, are dedicated only to fulfilling the requirements of the 1994 management order. In fact, all the validation of any permit or project that affects the Nerbioi basin needs the signature of the institution located in Oviedo, which we find regrettable. Or do you not find it regrettable that, for example, a municipality like Elorrio, of Bizkaia, in order to approve its planning needs the signature and authorization of this institution in Oviedo, with the linguistic problems that this entails, besides being 350 kilometers away? The Government therefore knows that this initiative is based on impeccable hydrological and technical arguments, as well as on consistent and legitimate legal-political arguments because it knows that the discontinuous part of this basin that runs through the Castile and León area is underground and its waters do not go, as we have said before, to the Nerbioi basin but to the Ebro basin. We must repeat that this is not the first time that an initiative on this issue has been defended and discussed in this forum. The problem, therefore, is a long one; we would also say that it is a fundamental problem because it is no more or less a question of respect for the sovereignty of our people, of respect for the sovereignty of Euskal Herria. Today we are talking about the sovereignty of Euskal Herria to manage its own natural resources; in fact, that was one of the objectives when Euskal Herria was cut territorially, that was one of the objectives when it was divided into two the territory of Euskal Herria in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Foral Community of Navarre. Today we find that we are also denied control and management over such important basins as those of Oria and Urumea or Bidasoa. In other words, we could say that today the capacity of Basque institutions to manage the Basque rivers is residual. For you, gentlemen of the People's Party, the corners that rise up the river Oria would ask you for a passport for entering the Navarra lands; you know that the corners themselves know that passing through the waters of Gipuzkoa to Navarra or vice versa is passing through the waters of the same country, which is Euskal Herria. He'll be here sooner than later that day. They have no doubt that Basque institutions will one day have full sovereignty over their own natural resources and that the Spanish State will have to agree with the Basque State on the management of those basins that cover the lands of both States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. Mr Lleonart has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u25	Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, Mr Agirretxea, they bring to the House a complex matter, with partial and biased legal readings, which seeks to amend the Waters Act, under which all kinds of trophies have been committed: intercuencal aquifers that are not considered such, allocation of aquifers to basin organisms that do not correspond to them, political considerations rather than techniques, etc., so that at last everything is much simpler than it initially seems, which is the eternal voracious struggle of nationalism to arrogate competences that do not correspond to it. You say in your proposal for a law that the constitutional jurisprudence in your Judgment 227/1988, legal basis 16, has applied the same territorial criterion of jurisdiction to all waters, whether superficial or groundwater, but with the hue that the latter must possess the condition that they are renewable waters. As we said earlier, you make a partial and biased statement of sentences and articulated. Groundwater is in the public hydraulic domain and Article 2 of the consolidated Water Act defines what is in the public hydraulic domain. I quote: "They constitute the public hydraulic domain of the State, with the exceptions expressly laid down in this law: a) Continental waters, both surface and renewable underground, regardless of the time of renewal". And I will repeat in case it has not been made clear in my presentation: the state. They also argue that there are, however, certain sections of groundwater understood in the terms defined in Article 40a(c), which do not really contribute or form part of the dynamics of the main watershed due to their special specific physical and socio-economic characteristics. However, for our parliamentary group what should determine its inclusion in a given basin is exclusively its physical characteristics, although in some cases it has been done for political considerations such as the collection of subsidies by farmers. On the other hand, there are quite a few intercommunal aquifers whose management is assigned to a particular confederation. This is the criterion that is mostly followed in our legislation and in the European one, the Water Framework Directive. But for legal purposes it is only intercommunal aquifers that are listed in Annex I of the National Hydrological Plan. You finish your explanatory statement by seeking to reformulate the criterion which determines what is an intra-Community watershed and what is not in accordance with a series of purely territorialist arguments, which may serve to convince your flock but does not hang, not here, not in the Congress of Deputies. The determination of the basins is based on hydrographic, non-political, non-ideological, non-interested and, above all, non-identitarian criteria. A basin is determined by means of a hydrographic divider, that is, a line that establishes that if all the water were to run out, it would flow to one side of the line to different channels. Therefore, in this case, and taking into account the objective and technical criteria of the divisions that have been drawn up in accordance with the Water Law, from UPyD we understand that the law should not be changed and that its proposal, which we do not doubt is of rabid topicality and that it affects the daily becoming of thousands of Basques, cannot be voted favorably. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking from the seat to say that for my parliamentary group the Congress of Deputies is not a congress of geographers where we have to be deciding what are the limits of one hydrographic confederation or another. If we have full competence to talk about what political conflicts are, which, as it cannot be otherwise, lies behind the proposal that the Basque Parliamentary Group brings us to debate this afternoon. My group believes that the proposal is reasoned, it is reasonable, it would not give rise to a terrible controversy in the distribution of the basins the small endorreic part at the head of the Nervion River to the Nervion basin itself, if, with all that, we also resolve a political conflict that lies behind this issue. For my group, another fundamental issue in deciding on this position is what the respective autonomous community wants. Things cannot be imposed on a territory, nor can they be imposed on a territory from outside that secretes or that a particular basin that flows uniquely and exclusively within its territory. This is the case that has also happened to us in some basin that occurs uniquely and exclusively within the Valencian Country and that belongs to the Hydrographic Confederation of Jucar. But, if it is a decision of the Basques, if it is a decision of the Basque Autonomous Community to be able to decide on the whole of a basin, except for a merely anecdotal space that is geographically unclear where it belongs, and if it solves a political problem, you have our blessing to solve the political problem. That is why my group is not going to oppose the handling of this proposal, because there would also be time after the geographers had left room for them to finish profiling where the lines are going, why the summits are going. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Barberà has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll do it from the seat, too. This proposed law of the Basque Group aims to add a new additional provision to the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 and to consider the Nerbioi-Ibaizabal basin as an intra-Community basin. We focus it basically on a competitive debate and surely that's why the spokesman for the Progressive Union and Democracy sees it as a fierce struggle for nationalism. I think that is true, it is a political issue of competition distribution, that it is managed closer to the citizens or from the center of the state. In short, it is an intercommunal basin, it transcends an autonomous community and it is the competence of the State - in this case it would be managed by the Hydrographic Confederation of the Cantabrian, as they have said from Oviedo - or it is an intracommunal basin, it happens by a single autonomous community, which in this case would be the Basque Country and would be the competence of the Basque Country. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the watersheds in the Basque Country, 2,300 square kilometres are managed as an intra-Community basin and 2,100 square kilometres are managed as an inter-Community basin. I suppose it will be difficult to manage to have half the surface of the watersheds managed from Oviedo and from the central state. In this case, nothing to discuss if so, but it is that in 1,000 square kilometers, which is the Nerbioi-Ibaizabal basin, for 1% of that basin, for 9 square kilometers, 1,000 square kilometers within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country are managed by the State. Political debate, competitive debate and, therefore, in addition to the legal and technical considerations that I believe in the explanatory statement of the Basque Group's proposal for a law, we will support this initiative. We believe that this basin should be managed intra-Communityly and therefore we will support this proposal for a law and try in the debate - if it is approved - if there is any other area of the State, to treat it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Barberà. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pérez Herraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u31	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group agrees with the text of the Water Act which states that all public authorities must ensure the rational use of all natural resources in order to protect and improve the quality of life and to defend and restore the environment on the basis of the indispensable collective solidarity. We also share the jurisdictional division between autonomous and central administrations in relation to water management in the sense that the central administration has jurisdiction over waters that transcend the territory of an autonomous community and the autonomous communities that flow only within its territory. It seems that this is also shared by the proposing group and that it raises a rather technical issue: whether the part of the Nerbioi river basin, belonging to Castile and León, really brings water or not. It seems more like a question of geography than of politics. It is also a little misleading the explanatory statement as it obviates the existence of the Cadagua River and focuses the issue only on an area of groundwater that should not be taken into account - they say - because it has no channel or runoff and therefore they do not consider it part of the Nerbioi basin. According to current theory, the river Nervión is born in the natural monument of Monte Santiago, a natural park located in the eastern part of the Sierra Salvada, in the Burgalese region of Las Merindades, located around 900 meters above sea level. It is composed of edaphic waters that form a river channel that subsequently creates the jump of the Nervion. One of the tributaries that gives rise to the Nervion River is the Cadagua, which is born in the Magdalena mountain range, descending towards the valley of Mena. This sector of the basin occupies 269 square kilometers, in it lives 3,901 bourgeois and has fifty-nine population entities, among which stand out Villasana de Mena, with 1,559 inhabitants. Therefore, the issue is not so much the contribution of groundwater, which seems to be the part on which the PNV initiative focuses, but the Nervión River has a tributary, the Cadagua River, which is also the vertebrate axis of the Mena Valley, a historic route of communication between the plateau and the Basque coast. In fact, it is so clear the existence of the Cadagua River and its contribution to the Nervión River - or Nerbioi - that it does not even raise doubts that could specify the intervention of the Geographical Institute. And when a river and its tributaries pass through more than one community, although it circulates mostly through one, they establish the Constitution and the Water Act and clearly establish the Constitutional Court that its management is the competence of the central administration. It would be as if to determine the basin of the Miño the river Sil was to be obviated: its contribution to the Miño, its basin, its environment and population; in that case, it would be excluded from the basin of the Miño-Sil all the region of the Bierzo. A water law is an important law always, and it is especially so in Spain because of the decentralization of the Administration, which we support and continue to defend, and because of the complexity of its management because of the different characteristics of the territories and the different needs and benefits linked to such management. It is also very important because it affects one of the main natural resources that must be protected and used as efficiently as possible. I am sure that we will all be able to make progress in providing more guarantees for the preservation of the natural environment and in making management more efficient and as close as possible to all citizens as possible. For example, we will have to resolve how to ensure the supply of water in difficult territories, as is the case in Menorca. But this progress must be achieved with the agreement of all the parties involved, and it does not seem most appropriate to make specific exceptions in the application of a general rule. Good management of intra- and inter-Community basins, which of course can be improved, is very important. Another example, to improve, is that only the Basque Country and Murcia established, in the development of the Water Law and the Coast Law, the canon of control of discharges for intra-Community waters. It is a fee that the Waters Act says must have all discharges to the hydraulic public domain and that it also establishes the Coasts Act, but it was only regulated by the Central Administration for Intercommunal Waters and, as I have said, the Basque Country and Murcia. A few years later, the rest of the autonomous communities have not yet developed it. Water policy must be sustainable in planning and management, increasing efficiency in the use of so little good; it must defend public ownership of the good against any attempt at privatization; and it must ensure the provision of water for all people. It goes on to seek maximum efficiency in the use of this resource, promoting a policy of rational use of water and the introduction of programmes of incentives for responsible consumption of this scarce and fundamental good. It goes on to reach a water pact with all social, economic and political actors in line with the European directives and to approve all river basin plans, with the aim of ensuring, even in periods of drought, that all people have access to water of sufficient quality and that river ecosystems are maintained. We must respect the environment and promote solidarity not only among all people, but also and especially with future generations. An adequate water policy requires a coherent strategy to address the availability of water and its rational use; to encourage the efficient use of water and reduce pollution; to promote the integrated use of surface and groundwater; to make it possible to reallocate water concessions - for example, from irrigation to industrial use - through the public banks of each basin; and to consolidate an architecture of shared responsibilities in line with the competences of each administration. We believe that water should not be privatized, as the Government of the People's Party has done with the Royal Decree-Law of urgent environmental measures or as the Autonomous Government of Madrid did with the Canal de Isabel II. We want to improve water management and believe that it is possible to do so, but we agree with the current principle that, if a basin runs through more than one community, the competence is of the central administration apart from the proportion of each community. We therefore do not consider it appropriate to amend the Water Act to incorporate an exception to this principle. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs Pérez Herráiz. Mr Collarte has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Agirretxea, it has not been very clear to me after your speech whether the problem is the headquarters or whether you want the Nervoon and Ibaizábal basin to be the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community. I mean, if the headquarters of the Eastern Cantabrian Hydrographic Confederation were in Bilbao, would we have the same problem or would it be another problem? Surely it would be another problem, almost certainly; that seems to me too. On the second part of his intervention focused on the theme of the Rambla de Canalejas - has corrected my good friend Jesus Caicedo with mathematical precision -, I think it is not good to insist on mistakes. I am not going to go into evaluations about why what happened on the subject of the transfer of the Almanzora basin and the Rambla de Canalejas, but you know perfectly well that there is a very important component there, which is to unify the hydrographic confederation for the topic of the Tajo-Segura transfer. It is not correct in our view, and I believe that insisting on that path of continuing to segregate watersheds does not lead absolutely anywhere, and that should not be the argument. Since the advantages of intervention are always the same, I do not want to bore you and I will not repeat the same definitions of river basins and river basins that have already been highlighted here, nor the legal components of both constitutional and statutory nature that support this issue. It draws my attention to the fact that the same definition of river basin that serves you to say that the basin of the Nervion and Ibaizábal is intra-Community serves me too, then we are coming to a question of technical-legal interpretation. Some partner has already said this: this reminds me of the out-of-games, which are sometimes for a little while, but you are out-of-game or you are not. Here is a line that clearly marks the current legislation and with that legislation I think there is little to discuss. It's an intercommunal basin, yes or yes. The clever argument is to strategically forget about a river called Cadagua, that's the key to this whole operation, because if Cadagua, Nervion and Ibaizábal are really part of that ria as they physically form these three sub-basins, there is very little to discuss. But if we skilfully make the Cadagua River disappear and we only talk about the other two rivers, then we use a very easy argument, which is: I have thirteen - I don't care about thirteen than nine, little - and I don't care about nine of them; it's very little, but it's the point of the boot, it's out of play. As is the legislation, there is nothing more to discuss, and I think that we should not turn to this because it does not give for more, because the definitions are what they are, the legal framework is what it is and use an issue not especially well done as that carried out on the subject of the transfer of the Almanzora basin as an argument does not seem to me to be the most appropriate way. The feeling is that this is the Basque Country and that it should be an intra-Community basin, it is a feeling, but it does not come only with the feeling, there is a legality and the legality is unappealable. The same applies to groundwater. You know very well that there is a mass of groundwater, which is called salvada, consisting of a narrow strip in some sections, but which extends through the heads of the Nervion and the Cadagua, that is, broken by both sub-basins, and that this polygonal covers the territories of Burgos and Álava. We are exactly the same as before: feeling, legality and reason. I'm not going to stretch out much longer. Finally, I want to tell you that I understand what the Nervion River, the Nerbioi River, and the Ibaizábal that cross the Great Bilbao under the name of Bilbao's ria. That's where the Cadagua comes in. They are probably for you more than a river and there by the neighborhood of Peña, where the fresh and salty waters melt, an engineer to whom I honor to remember, Evaristo de Churruca and Brunet, projected the outer port. I also know that during the Middle Ages the Nerbioi River served as a boundary between the lordship of Vizcaya and the counties of Castile, charging a toll at that point. I hope we are able not to return that kind of toll and to feel these rivers, which you feel as yours, we feel them all as ours, that is, also yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Collarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u35	No bill of the People's Group on the elaboration by the Ministry of Defence of the protocol on sexual harassment, on grounds of sex and occupation, in the Armed Forces. Mrs Navarro has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to rise to the rostrum to present this non-legislative proposal from the People's Group on the elaboration of a protocol for action on sexual and professional harassment in the Armed Forces. [[The lady]] Firstly, I would like to tell you that this proposal is the result of responsibility, seriousness and coherence. At parliamentary level, our group undertook to call for the elaboration of a protocol to prevent and eradicate cases of abuse when the organic law on the disciplinary regulations of the Armed Forces, published on 5 March last, had been finalized, providing precisely for this operation of the protocol. We also felt that progress was very important in the reform of the Military Penal Code, which, as you know, is still being worked on, but which already includes in its chapter III abuse of authority, degrading treatment and sexual and labour harassment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to fulfil our commitment. There is nothing more despicable than harassing a woman at work or sexually. We are aware that rivers of ink have run on this issue and that some do not hesitate to use it for their electoral benefit, including the fight for equal rights between men and women, but we cannot call into question the honorability of the male members of the Armed Forces, because unfortunately these harassment practices are neither more nor less frequent than in any other collective in our society. I assure you that the vast majority of the members of our armies hate these despicable practices as much as all of us here, and that is because they work day by day with their companions and play life with them on dangerous missions that unite them for life and create bonds of respect and admiration. We cannot use the right to equality as a bold weapon, we cannot do that, ladies and gentlemen. It's a very serious and very painful matter to play with. It is true that there have been some unforgivable cases in our Armed Forces, but it is also true that this Government has strengthened measures to ensure that perpetrators are prosecuted and convicted. The offender must have the full weight of the law without palliatives and, as soon as this non-law proposal is adopted, a preventive and advisory mechanism under the new protocol of action will also be put in place. Our Government has not been on the sidelines, ladies and gentlemen; equality has been a priority for the Ministry of Defence and its concern for women is not confined solely and exclusively to these dramatic cases of harassment, but is also confined to day by day. Work from the military observatory is being permanently and decisively supported. Training has been enhanced on an equal basis. The reconciliation of family life in the Armed Forces has been supported with hourly flexibility, reduced hours of work, day care, etc. Another aspect to be highlighted is the evolution of the presence of women in the Armed Forces, which is currently 12.4 per cent and has been maintained approximately in the last decade, which means, and it can be said, that the presence of women in the Armed Forces has been consolidated. Currently, the Permanent Secretariat for Equality is working on actions that highlight the empowerment of the consultation service, the development of a new conciliation guide, the development of the Equality Plan of the General Government of the State in the Ministry of Defence and its internal communication. At the international level, we also need to highlight the growing external activity of the Permanent Secretariat for Equality, which promotes the implementation of the United Nations Security Council resolution on women, peace and security. Having said all this, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the amendments that have been tabled to this non-legislative proposal by three groups of the House, as well as for the provision by the other groups of the House that, although not having tabled amendments, some have expressed their support for this non-legislative proposal. I would also like to say that everyone's work is essential for it to go ahead and I would also like to say from here that we will try to reach a compromise, in which we have not yet had time to work, and I suppose we can come up with a joint text that can be supported by the majority of the House. I know that all the proposals that your ladies and gentlemen have made are based on the reality that this is a matter that needs to be resolved and that would in any case enrich the non-legislative proposal that we are bringing today. In conclusion, the Spanish Constitution incorporates as fundamental rights the dignity of the person and the right and duty to work. This must be developed, always and inexcusably, in line with physical and moral integrity and with the absence of any inhuman and degrading treatment that may occur. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this proposal will have the support of the House and I am grateful - as I have said before - for the support expressed by the groups, because it must be said that equality and the eradication of harassment are not worth personal protagonists, here only the joint, serious and convinced struggle is effective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, first of all I have the floor, by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of today's Commander Zaida Cantera has put on the table a debate on two problems which for the public were non-existent and which, however, many members of the Armed Forces have been suffering for years: one is sexual harassment and the other is labour harassment. I insist that they are two problems as a starting point, because they are different and require different treatments, although they often come together, and both are serious enough to take them seriously and take decisive action. When we talk about protecting victims of sexual and labour harassment, let us not lose sight of the fact that we talk about human suffering, about the suffering of men and women members of our Armed Forces, that is, people whose job mandate includes the possibility of being sent to die for the freedom of all of us, to give life for the freedom and security of all of us. While all citizens deserve our protection and support, they deserve it especially because of the special conditions in which they carry out their work, and we must at least show a sincere interest in their problems, Mrs Navarro. No army of the world, no one, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to lift the flag of democracy and freedom in any country of the world if sexual or professional harassment is tolerated in its ranks, if the rulers look elsewhere when these cases have come to light, when they have been known, or when they have already been, as we are dealing with, the subject of parliamentary debate. This is the situation in which we find ourselves, the cases, of which Commander Zaida is only the tip of the iceberg, are known; secondly, the problem is before our eyes; and, thirdly, the victims are questioning us. We find ourselves at a time when determined action by the Government is required to prevent and prevent these crimes, of course to punish them as well. It's an advance that hardens the feathers. But cases of sexual harassment require a great deal of prevention to avoid them. This is what a protocol should do, to facilitate the reporting of victims and to create a climate of hostility towards the harasser and not towards the victim, as happened in the case of Captain Cantera at the time, as we were able to know in this House, in order to eradicate the climate of impunity and to eradicate the silence around those who suffer this kind of abuse. Mrs Navarro, it is time for action, it is time to change things, it is time to tell the victims that politics serves to protect them. It is not the time of the circumloquies, it is not the time of vagueness or cosmetics. The victims ask us to act and my parliamentary group will not disappoint them, because we know the enormous suffering they suffer and the terrible consequences that harassment has for their professional life but also for their personal and family life, even for their health. That is why I believe, and I regret to say this, that this initiative does not rise to the challenge posed to us by the problem of sexual harassment in the Armed Forces, nor does it rise to the demand of society that has witnessed scandalized a problem whose existence was completely ignored, nor does it rise to the level of the members of the Armed Forces and the protection they demand from us. Of course, I agree with you that there are thousands of men in the Armed Forces who do not engage in these behaviours. They too are overwhelmed, and they too would like this House to take decisive action to punish those few who discredit the image of all. I miss this proposal not of empathy law, decision and political will. I insist, we would like to support your initiative, but I regret to say that you are not up to it. The protocol which the Minister undertook to push forward, almost two months ago, should already be approved and, if not, should at least be very advanced. The least that can be asked is for this initiative to achieve a degree of concreteness that would allow us to think that we are working rigorously and quickly on such a serious matter, so that we could already specify how this mechanism will be used to ensure that a case such as Commander Cantera's will never happen again. We have tabled an amendment that I would like you to study carefully, because this problem is one that is solved simply with political will. If there is the political will to root that problem out, tomorrow the first thing that needs to be done, and we raise it in the amendment, is to apply the existing protocol in the Civil Guard to the Armed Forces in an interim manner until that protocol is approved. The second thing to do is to specify how this protocol should collect mechanisms to protect the victim and ensure the confidentiality of his case and of his complaint and to implement an agency to prevent, stop and respond to sexual harassment, an agency that must be independent and whose members are not subject to the hierarchical structure of the Armed Forces. We also propose to reorient the Military Observatory on Equality, because we believe that it could also play an important role in this problem, and another series of improvements that we ask you to look carefully because we must take this problem seriously and tell the members of the Armed Forces that we do so. We are not going to accept a proposed law for cosmetic purposes that does not want to solve the problem but pretend that it is solved. We have an opportunity that I believe, Mrs Navarro, that we should not let go if we are really committed to eradicating sexual and labour harassment in the Armed Forces. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u40	Mrs Navarro, after listening to you, we must tell you that your inability to self-criticise and your abuse of the car bomb have no measure. [[The lady]] The role can bear everything, but the reality is clumsy, and the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is that the fact that they are bringing us this debate today, having voted against it just six months ago, is no accident. The truth is that this debate is being forced by a public opinion that is beginning to see, increasingly, unfortunately, situations of abuse that arise and lack of democracy that exist within our Armed Forces. A reality that we know, moreover, thanks to the courage of professional associations and the men and women of the Armed Forces who have dared to denounce and who, in most cases, have suffered terrible consequences precisely for doing so. The case of Commander Zaida Cantera has already been cited here, for example. They have been forced by this dripping of cases of abuse, in some cases of sexual court, in other cases of labour court and in other cases, which, despite being different, have a common denominator - and that is what the Plural Left wants to talk about today also in this debate - which is nothing other than the questioning of a legal-military system that lacks guarantees for the right or the exercise of effective judicial protection of complainants. That is a problem that exists within our Armed Forces and in our military legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, recognizing that the possibilities of sexual harassment and abuse of all kinds are increasing in those strongly masculinized and hierarchical areas is nothing more than a fact, in the Armed Forces and in any other area. That does not mean - and I say it to you because the People's Party has ever resorted to that - that the people who denounce this situation want to muddle the name of either the Armed Forces or their men, many of whom are denouncing precisely that they are not doing what needs to be done to prevent this kind of abuse. Therefore, you know that it is the duty of everyone and everyone to seek solutions to these kinds of problems, to the negative consequences of these situations, and for that we must flee, ladies and gentlemen, from the same logics that help to create the conditions that perpetuate this very serious problem. In other words, we have to think in another way and from another perspective to look for solutions. But in reading his proposal and listening to it, we are very much afraid that the People's Party will only go along with that logic which we want to banish, when it does not recognize that in addition to these legislative amendments in the area of the Military Penal Code or the Organic Law of Disciplinary Regime, other specific issues are necessary to address the issue before us. We are not going to say that they are not progress; of course they are progress; of course it is an advance that is typified these crimes in the two laws I have said, but obviously they would have to be judged by ordinary justice, as it should be, ladies and gentlemen, and not by military justice. One more case of constitutional breach of military norms. We believe, and you know this, that even if these crimes are classified in the field of military legislation, the lack of independence of military jurisdiction, the lack of due process or the prevailing arbitrariness resulting from the misunderstanding and disproportionate use of the concept of discipline, will impede the effective right to complaint. These elements that I have just told you are sufficiently persuasive to prevent such crimes from being reported, and they are also the same elements that allow impunity for the complainant and that reprisals are, in many cases, with the complainants in case they have the courage to take the step forward and denounce these situations. Today we wanted to bring this reflection, which seems very important to us, because it has been the one that has absolutely governed the position of our parliamentary group in each and every one of those legislative debates that affect the field and the legal-military order; a legal order, ladies and gentlemen, based on the abuse of arbitrariness, on the lack of taxivity that goes beyond the constitutional limits and therefore provokes fear. A society with fear is not a democratic society; democracy must enter the barracks with all those of the law. Now is when the opportunity comes for this protocol that we and we consider absolutely essential, ladies and gentlemen. We have already told them that we are taking that line at the hands of the People's Group because it seems very important to us, but not so, not as a declaration of intent. That is why we propose a number of questions to you. We want to reach an agreement and we have put on the table an absolutely possible amendment to accept. We want this protocol, based on the zero-tolerance policy, to serve to put an end to the belief that in the Armed Forces and in society as a whole it does not compensate for anything to denounce or that it is even better not to denounce, and also to put an end to that feeling of impunity and impotence of one another. I want to put forward four concrete proposals - I am running out of time - in this debate: that this protocol against sexual violence implies that our Armed Forces have the mechanisms and channels of reception, legal, legal and psychological advice necessary to ensure that those who face the complaint do so with guarantees, away from their aggressor and at no economic cost. Of course, we agree that we must work on training, prevention, early detection and visibility of the problem, but for the latter we must incorporate the parameters relating to the situation of work harassment, sexual and professional harassment within the Armed Forces in the annual analysis of the state of military status. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to create a database that guarantees statistical systematisation, it is necessary to make it visible, because what is not known is unfortunately not happening, and it is happening. We also believe...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u41	Mr. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u42	I'm done, Madam President. We believe that the Military Life Observatory is the best able body to carry out this task. Finally, we propose measures to ensure the complainant's right in the proceedings, which should involve safeguarding her identity and career, as well as establishing precautionary measures against the offender. I'm done with this. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Statute for Victims of Crime has been published in the Official Gazette of the State. We believe that it is extremely important that it be applied also in the criminal and military disciplinary field. The time has run out for dirty rags to be washed at home, in the face of this problem that affects us all and we cannot all put on hot cloths and we cannot stand in half. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past two years in this House there have been attempts to debate social and labour harassment in the Armed Forces, and in those two years, driven by the Socialist Group and other political groups, it has been intended to bring the Government to the House to talk about it, and it has been two years of blockage by the People's Party for any debate on this matter. On 16 September 2013, almost two years ago, our group submitted a request for the Minister of Defence to come to the Commission to talk about the situation of women in the Armed Forces in the light of what was then a scandal already, the case of Commander Zaida Cantera and Private Silvia Ruiz. The government did not come, the People's Group parapeted, our group provoked a debate in the Commission without the Minister's presence and in that debate the People's Group voted no to the Minister's presence to talk about this matter. Months later, our group again presented an initiative for the Minister of Defence to come to the Commission to speak in this case on the grounds that Commander Zaida Cantera had requested discharge from the army. The minister refused to come, again we provoked - our group - a debate in the Commission and the People's Group, vis-à-vis all the other groups, closed the possibility of the government discussing this issue in the Defence Committee. We have recently presented another initiative for the minister to come and talk about the same subject, on the occasion of the implementation of the new disciplinary regime, which actually provides for the failure to tolerate or not denounce sexual harassment in the army. At this time we have also called for a protocol against sexual harassment in the Armed Forces. On 15 October last year we presented a GNP in this respect. The debate took place on 26 November, almost four months ago, and in that debate the People's Group voted against the existence of a protocol against sexual harassment in the Armed Forces. And now, miraculously, the People's Group is going to vote yes to a protocol, when four months ago it voted no, clearly, firmly, to a protocol in the Armed Forces. What happened? It is clear what has happened, and it is that the minister has blown up the subject of sexual harassment in the face of a regrettable intervention and of the most unfortunate that we have seen from the Government in this Chamber - which has been many - and the People's Party is quick and running to present the need for a protocol for the Armed Forces. What we have been pursuing for so long, suddenly, as a result of that clumsy intervention, the People's Group is trying to defend it through this protocol. Welcome to the club, we could tell the People's Group, but we are not going to accept any protocol, a protocol that does not deal in depth with this issue and really solve it at the root. That is why we have tabled an alternative amendment, which is to the text of the non-law proposal, in which we say that, first, there must be a consensus of the parliamentary groups, a prior consultation of the groups in order to adopt a protocol against sexual harassment that has the consensus of all the political groups. Secondly, anonymity, the confidentiality of whistleblowers, must be preserved. Thirdly, we must also preserve the non-retaliation of those who denounce, because one of the things that happens in the Armed Forces, in our own and in those of other countries is that it is not denounced for fear of reprisals. In addition, an independent body of the chain of command must be able to handle and process these complaints through a procedure that is said to be agile and rapid, fundamental in this case. We also believe that the minister - and we ask him for this for the fourth time in this parliamentary term - should come and talk to the Commission about this matter. We also believe that the rise of the then Lieutenant Colonel Lezcano, sentenced to prison for abuse of authority over Commander Zaida Cantera, should be revoked for being injurious to the interests of the military administration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must address this scourge of the sexual and labour harassment of the Armed Forces, which is a scourge of Spanish society and which also suffers the Armed Forces as a member of society, which in this case also affects women in the Armed Forces for obvious reasons, for the hierarchical relationship and for the vulnerability of the victim when it is a superior who exerts such sexual or labour harassment. Such undesirable conduct ultimately affects the very presence of women in the Armed Forces, which have nothing to do with the values of the army, which stain the good name of the Armed Forces; something that is repulsive to the vast majority of the military, who should not be contaminated by the existence of such conduct. Harassment is one of the most violent ways of expressing contempt for women and its eradication is the task of all. Hence the importance of a serious, deep protocol that attacks sexual harassment of women in the Armed Forces. Many times, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u45	Thank you, Mr. López Garrido. Mr Baldoví, first of all, on the position-setting table for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. It draws attention to the shift from denial of reality to recognition of its existence by the Government in making public, two days after its refusal to give explanations on a specific case, the intention to draw up a protocol. Any support measures to improve the situation are welcome, but there is one that would be fundamental and that can change women's confidence in finding justice. We, since Compromís-Equo, would add a point 4, which would expressly establish in the protocol the inhibition of military jurisdiction in favour of the ordinary in cases of allegations of sexual harassment, all in compliance with principle 29 of the updated set of principles for the protection and promotion of human rights through the fight against impunity, adopted by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. This principle 29, restrictions on the jurisdiction of military courts, provides: The jurisdiction of military courts should be limited to specifically military offences committed by military personnel, excluding human rights violations, which are the competence of ordinary national courts or, where appropriate, in the case of serious crimes, in accordance with international law, of an international criminal court. Thus, the United Nations offers us the solution: if it is the ordinary justice and not the military that resolves cases of sexual harassment, the victims will have greater confidence in justice, in a correct resolution of the case, under objectivity and true independence when leaving the castress realm in which obedience prevails and, consequently, weighs the rank of the accused and of the witnesses. At the legal level, the proposal is based on the fact that it is a crime unrelated to military discipline, and we are also facing a violation of human rights, such as the right to equality and non-discrimination, the right to honour and not to receive violatory treatment. This is not contrary to article 118 of the Constitution, since it is not the offence of sexual harassment of the strictly Castrian nature. This would be a necessary step to protect the victims and a step ahead of a democratic and peaceful society such as ours, the disappearance of military justice. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u47	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to stand with respect to this non-legislative proposal put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group. We understand that it is protocol, like the protocol referred to by Mrs Navarro, of the Group of the European People's Party. I say that it is protocol because, if agreement is not reached with the other political forces that have tabled amendments, we sincerely believe that it will not affect too much the policies that should be imposed on the Armed Forces by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible that a military woman who denounces sexual harassment has to solve her problem like all women who suffer sexual harassment in the world of work, leaving her job, which is what is happening in this case with Commander Zaida. If this happens, ladies and gentlemen, it is because the army did not give the correct and correct solution to the complaint, when it is also confirmed that sexual abuse occurred. On the other hand, while this person, this woman, the victim, finds herself in this dramatic situation of abandoning the profession she had chosen, today the person responsible for the crime - which we know - has not been punished. It is not a question of protocol or not a protocol, it is a question of the fact that these attitudes cannot be accepted in any sphere of life, but of course we are talking about the army, where the Government, regardless of whether military justice or ordinary justice has to resolve the matter, must be the one who implements the rules so that such situations do not occur, inter alia by the good name of the army, but also by the eradication of a scourge like this. Ladies and gentlemen, to tell the Government that it has to act decisively on this matter is not to question all the Spanish Army soldiers, but to be aware that there is not only a problem, but that there are many women who suffer the same situation and fear - like the other women who suffer harassment in the world of work - do not denounce it, because they feel alone before the complaint or, because of the superior hierarchy of the aggressor, believe that they will have no one to accompany them to prove that aggression exists. This sexual harassment occurs in all areas of working life, but it is unfortunate, shameful, that this is admitted into the Armed Forces without punishing those aggressors.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u49	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u50	Therefore, in order to be able to position ourselves favourably, we would like to see a compromise reached.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I'll step in from the seat. I would begin this intervention with a very manic but very understandable phrase: Excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesto. What do I mean by that? I find it sad that the People's Group has had to present this non-legislative proposal now. Presenting such a proposal is sad in itself, but even more so than they have had to present it now. After the serious situation suffered by an army officer - which we all know and which has been mentioned here by all those involved - and after an unfortunate and unpleasant intervention by the minister in this Chamber, you now present this. What do you want me to tell you? Do you think that someone other than the People's Party has not realized that it is a logical consequence, one after the other? Obviously, it is. That does not mean that neither my group nor any of us here are against the signing of a protocol against sexual harassment in the army. I'd miss more! The question I ask myself is why so far there has not been a protocol, why it has had to be drawn up right now. Moreover, the spokesman for the People's Group had just begun to justify the honourability of the members of the army. No, if no one's questioning her; you're putting on some kind of bandage yourself before the wound occurs, in case anyone thinks about it... No, here the facts are denounced when they occur; if the facts occur, they occur, but what cannot be done is to try to justify the unjustifiable when someone commits what they commit. I am therefore pleased that this protocol is being drawn up, but I do not think it is complete. I insist, what protocol is it? Other colleagues have said that, and in the end we all agree on the same arguments. What guarantees does this protocol offer in an institution based on hierarchy and displicin? Do you believe that there is a level of confidence, of internal democracy; do you believe it possible in an institution based on a hierarchy and discipline, in which in turn - this is such a serious situation that can occur in any workplace - always the harassment is from a superior to a inferior? I don't think any sergeant stalks a captain, I'm sure he doesn't. We are talking about an institution in which hierarchy has the importance it has. Here we can give approval to the protocol, but it must have a second part, some guarantee measures on what can happen when it is denounced, what to do so that no one will suffer reprisals, what to do so that this situation can be judged diligently. Therefore, this issue - which seems very delicate to me - had to have been addressed a long time ago. I wonder what the sad thing is in the background. If the People's Group had not submitted this non-legislative proposal, would there have been a free bar? Wouldn't there have been any measure? Have we had to wait for a PNL to stop further harassment in the army? I think it is a very complicated situation, but this is too poor a measure and it is too late. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u53	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Navarro, I think it is important that in the debate we have today on the basis of the People's Group's non-legislative proposal let us speak clearly, and let us do so on name and form. When I say about the name, it is because you have started and finished your speech without referring to Commander Zaida Cantera, of which you bring this parliamentary initiative to a great extent. You have made a serious political mistake in denying the evidence, the reality; you have rejected the Minister's appearance to account for this eventual case of harassment and sexual and labour persecution in the army, to which is also added another eventual case, that of Private Silvia Ruiz. Ladies and gentlemen, the best thing for transparency in Parliament is to say things by name. You are trying to remedy an initial denial which even lacked the strictest rules of parliamentary courtesy. To a Member - from whom I am far from many points of view about things - one cannot answer from the blue banks - I quote -: Your Honor, instead of so much imposture and so much media circus... - in full control session or ending, referring to an article -: My illness has passed away, Your Honor; not Yours. Yours is moral lowness and is consubstantial with your person. You have made a mistake and you are trying to solve it with a non-legislative proposal which perhaps we would not have arrived at if, at the moment, a specific television programme - let us talk about specific names -, Salvados - I repeat, a television programme - had not denounced a specific case. Has progress been made in achieving a democratic army in which fundamental rights are protected not only by the courts but also by superiors who have internalized democratic values? Yes, he's made some progress. In the eighties of the last century, our defence spokesman, Congressman Lluis Recoder, asked to visit the barracks, simply to check the human rights situation, and he had no right to visit them. We've made progress, but there's still a lot to do. We have a Law on the Disciplinary Regime of the Armed Forces, Law 8/2014; we await the development regulations. You announce a protocol against sexual and labour harassment in the army. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important rule that is currently in Parliament, in the parliamentary seat for processing, is the reform of the Military Penal Code. The majority group is not too hasty in the reform of this Military Penal Code. The previous one was from 1983, after the coup d'état. We are voting against the amendment to the whole tabled by the United Left; it seems to us very timely, very appropriate that we have a new Military Penal Code in this legislature. The text prepared by the Government already provides for the criminal type of sexual harassment, on grounds of sex and occupation, as well as any attack on freedom or sexual identity. Let's get this criminal guy in there to be strong now. Ladies and gentlemen, non-legislative proposals, welcome; processing of the Penal Code, indispensable already in this calendar that you announce us so agitated of legislative activity in the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, also the result of a law and a political and parliamentary pact in the previous legislature, we have the Military Life Observatory, which is defined by law as a high commissioner of these General Courts. This Military Life Observatory does not have sufficient resources, not only economic but also facilitation by the army, so that all circumstances can be observed and denounced. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I am the last spokesman to speak at this point. We have started the debate by announcing the predisposition to the agreement. We have ended up without a text, without the authors of the amendments being aware of the alternative text. Mrs Navarro, with my full respect, I do not know if you have many other parliamentary responsibilities today, but it is very important that parliamentarians and spokespersons are aware of the possible compromise they have announced to us. An advisory member of a ministry is very respectable, but we parliamentarians are the ones who ultimately parliament, agree and...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u55	Mr. Xuclà, your time has passed. I would like you to take a position on the proposal, but don't make a fool of the honourable Member or the Minister's advisers who are not here.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u56	That is precisely why I would like to be able to finish the sentence by defending parliamentarianism, Madam President of the Congress of Deputies, right now. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u57	You have the floor. Finish it now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u58	Thank you, Madam President. He was conveying to the spokesman of the majority that agreements were made between representatives of sovereignty. I wish and hope that this agreement will be reached, because that will give society a good image and a good message.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u59	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u60	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u61	Mrs Navarro, I ask you precisely about your position with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. I said at the end of my speech that, as the vote will take place at the end of the plenary session, we would like to reach an agreement, as the representative of Convergence has rightly said. We're trying to get to him.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u63	To a transactional. Okay. Send it to the Bureau when it has occurred. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE URGENT IMPLANTION OF THE GUARANTEE+45 PROGRAMME. [[File number 162/001218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u64	We move on to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the urgent implementation of the Guarantee+45 programme. For your defence and presentation, Mr. Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment and job insecurity, together with the impoverishment they cause in growing sections of the population, are the country's first problem, without a doubt. The labour force survey for the first quarter of 2015 that we just heard a few days ago confirms that the government's policy in this regard, far from solving problems, is aggravating them: 114,300 jobs have been lost in the first three months of the year, 56,600 jobs lost among our young people, 76,000 among women; full-time indefinite recruitment has fallen to 8,500 people. They are bad data; bad data that reflect a poor balance of the 2012 labour reform and the general labour policy of the Government. Today we have 700,000 jobs less than in 2011, 157,000 more unemployed, 44% of the unemployed are already very long-term unemployed - more than two years in unemployment - and 70% of the unemployed do not receive any benefits; 3,800,000 people unemployed without benefits. We can say this clearly, therefore: the Government has failed to tackle the country's first problem. We have more unemployment, more precariousness, less rights, less protection against unemployment and more poverty associated with unemployment. The global problem of unemployment and insecurity undoubtedly requires a global response as well as the one presented this morning by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Pedro Sánchez. It requires an economic policy aimed at creating good jobs; a productive model that seeks competitiveness, beyond wage devaluation, in innovation, in research; a new status of workers that guarantees labour rights and combats job insecurity; a fair recruitment model that limits real temporary recruitment to temporary jobs. Finally, it requires a fair labour policy for a fair recovery. In this non-law proposal, which we are now presenting to you, we are trying to get you to adopt an exceptional solution to the exceptionally serious problem suffered by an exceptionally vulnerable group, the unemployed of more than forty-five years of age. One of the worst effects of labour reform has been the gradual growth of long-term and very long-term unemployment; I insist, 2,400,000 very long-term unemployed, more than 60% of long-term unemployment, more than one year. Well, half of the very long-term unemployed in this country are over 45 years old and their situation is really dramatic. Many have family burdens, the vast majority have major difficulties, added, to reintegrate into the labour market; they are very much trapped in the negative circle of unemployment, the exhaustion of benefits and the lack of active employment policies that would help them find work again. The balance in addition to the fall in unemployment benefits is tremendous in recent years: 388,000 less beneficiaries in 2014, 510,000 less beneficiaries since 2011; three out of every four women, two out of every three men lack benefit; of the 1,80,000 unemployed over forty-five years of age, almost 1,050,000 lack public assistance. It is an extraordinary fall, I insist, in the public effort to help the unemployed, to give them social coverage. We therefore propose to them a social emergency plan for the unemployed group over 45 years of age; a state programme to create at least 200,000 direct jobs in the first phase from public administrations and non-profit entities. The aim is to offer unemployed persons over 45 years of age, who have been unemployed for more than two years and who have exhausted their benefits, contracts of at least six months, with remuneration equivalent to the minimum inter-professional wage and with a day on which at least 20% of the time is reserved for actions intended for their retraining and reinsertion on the basis of a personalised itinerary designed by the public employment services. This is, in essence, the proposal we make to them. We are fully aware that the global problem of unemployment and job insecurity requires global strategies, but while that strategy for a fair labour policy within the framework of a fair recovery is being put in place, we are calling on this House to support a genuine social emergency programme. The aim is to ensure the subsistence and dignity of a group of Spaniards as punished as those who are now unemployed for more than forty-five years. It is convenient, yes, but above all it is fair, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u66	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. For the defence of the amendment, I have the floor, Mr Coscubaila, for the Plural Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal puts us on the table today, which is possibly one of the greatest employment dramas in our country, identified with the situation of those over 45 years of age. The border is sometimes more than fifty, others more than forty-five, but in any case it is that reality. Undoubtedly, we are faced with one of the collectives who is experiencing the situation of economic crisis in a more unjust and dramatic way. At some point I have said that I have the feeling that the Government has behaved with this collective with a certain social sadism - and I repeat it - because, although it is true that the economy does not generate enough employment for them, from the point of view of political action not only has nothing been done to encourage the employment of this collective, but also that they have been restricted to access to unemployment benefits with the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, the one famous of the memorandum at the cost of the rescue of the banks, to leave them afterwards not only without benefit, but also restricting their access to early retirement. It is difficult to harass a group more than is currently being done with those over 45 years of age. I also agree with Mr Simancas's reflection that structural measures are certainly needed because of the size of the problem. As people's daily reality is very harsh and immediacy, it does not seem to us wrong that, while trying to bring about this change in policies that affect the creation of employment for these groups, concrete measures should be sought that can at least alleviate situations of greater social drama. In this respect, the proposal put to us by the Socialist Group seems acceptable to us; we will vote in favour of it, especially if we accept the amendments we have proposed, as we have been announced in private. Our amendments have one objective: to try to prevent a good wish, a good idea from becoming, in practice, bad habits and customs. We have - I have said it many times - a productive fabric with many good practices, with many entrepreneurs in the public and private areas who do their job as entrepreneurs very well, but unfortunately we have a certain tendency to take advantage of any opportunity to make it a trap. I do not believe that this is a divine evil of a special peculiarity of the Spaniards, but in any case the obligation of the public authorities is to prevent that from happening. In this respect, there are three of our amendments, aimed at the following objectives: firstly, to narrow down the beneficiaries of this programme. To the extent that the Socialist Group itself assumes the limitation of the collective to which it can reach - it cites a minimum of 200,000 people - it is clear that it would not make sense for any unemployed person to benefit more than forty-five years, for example with a very high level of training. I do not think that programme serves that purpose, because then the objective of training makes no sense. That is why I think it is essential to target selectively those groups with special formative difficulties, to which even the bubble at a certain point has discouraged them from continuing their studies and has left them absolutely stranded. Therefore limit training to these groups. Secondly, narrow down businesses and how they can do it. We believe that this programme should be designed to be used especially by social initiative entities. I believe that it would be a way of strengthening the situation because of the difficulties it is facing in order to be able to carry out its functions, especially in view of what the Socialist Group is proposing - we have many doubts - in relation to the inter-professional minimum wage. We must be very careful in this regard, and therefore limit it to that group and, above all, very much in the field of public service. It is not the first time, unfortunately, that we see some municipalities suffocated by poorly understood austerity policies, by the Stability Pact and by many difficulties, that seeking solutions and shortcuts use interesting projects to do things that do not correspond. Therefore, we propose to limit this possibility to those activities that are not part of actions that are already being carried out by public administrations either directly or indirectly, lest such a mechanism is a factor in favoring that made the law, made the trap. Finally, a fundamental issue is to ensure the effectiveness of training, because we can accept - I insist - with many doubts the element of the interprofessional minimum wage, provided that this allows certain people to access training and enter the labour market. That is the meaning of our amendments, we hope that they will be formally accepted and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u68	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, by the Vasco PNV Group, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully share the Socialist Group's concern and I am sure that the rest of the groups in this House are concerned about the problem of unemployment, which has been perfectly characterised in the initiative and which affects to a large extent those over forty-five, including those over fifty-five years old and over. In these groups, moreover, the possibilities of finding work, returning to the labour market, are inferior, not to say null in many cases. There are hundreds of thousands of people affected by unemployment, by low benefits, with little chance of getting back into the labour market, with family responsibilities and who have already been out of work for a long time. It is the description of a dantesque picture and of suffering that has unfortunately left us this economic crisis. Unemployment, poverty, lack of protection and crisis still define the situation of the Spanish economy, although some are committed to painting the reality of the most heavenly color. It is therefore urgent to act from policy and institutions to resolve this situation. It is in this context that the initiative brought to this House today by the Socialist Group is inserted. It is an initiative which - I am sincere to you, Mr Simancas - I cannot fully understand: direct job creation by public administrations with a salary equivalent to one hundred per cent of the interprofessional minimum wage and financed by a specific plan, whose operation is not explicit and which I cannot understand. In spite of this, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this initiative and how many are brought to this House in order to alleviate the effects of unemployment on older people with greater difficulty in accessing the labour market. In our view, it would be more effective to encourage tax incentives or subsidies in social security contributions to companies that hire these groups. We believe that there is a wider range of jobs and qualifications in the private sector that fit people who are unemployed and of a certain age. We must all make the necessary efforts to support employment, as the economic crisis is still unfortunately deep and the level of unemployment will continue to be high for many years. It is a fundamental task that requires the push and ideas of all, and we, from the Basque Group, are prepared to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u70	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Anchuelo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Today, a subject we have had the opportunity to deal repeatedly with is the issue of the elderly, the unemployed over the age of 45. We have dealt with it in our own initiatives, we have dealt with it in response to numerous initiatives from other groups; but welcome be it because it is clear that the problem is still there. Welcome to be a new initiative on this serious unresolved issue. We have pointed out on previous occasions that it gives the feeling that in Spanish society the terrible drama of youth unemployment makes us forget sometimes that there is a drama no less, at the other end of the age spectrum, and it is these older unemployed people who have peculiar situations and deserve differentiated treatment. They are often people with family responsibilities and in some cases risk never returning to the labour market. That is why it is surprising that, being such the magnitude of the drama, public policies, rather than strengthening to help these people to cope with their situation, throughout the legislature they have hardened, attenuated and worsened in the different moments of their drama. First stage: the possibility of losing a job. Labour reform increased the possibility of job losses by facilitating dismissal, including indefinite contracts. Once I have lost my job, I need protection, and the response from public policies has been to abolish the allowance for over forty-five years old, to raise the allowance from fifty-two to fifty-five years old and to tighten the conditions of access. Not only do I need protection but training; I've been training for a long time and the one I have is deteriorating. Active employment policies are drastically curtailed. Ultimately, they have the exit from early retirement, albeit unintentionally, but the age of access to such retirement is also rising. Therefore, all the doors and all the roads are being closed to them. My group, with its own amendments and initiatives, has tried to do the opposite, instead of closing the doors and opening them. For example, in the labour reform the amendment to Telefónica sought to make pre-retirement difficult for companies to bear the cost to the public of such pre-retirement, a measure which, by the way, has been distorted by subsequent legislation. We planned, for example, that the capitalization of unemployment would not have an age limit, not just for young people. This is something that was finally approved a few days ago, although years later and at the end of the legislature. We have also proposed, in order to increase the protection of these people, that the last step of protection, which is the minimum income of autonomous insertion, should not be so uneven - in some communities they cover six months and in another 24 months, in some with one amount and in others with another -; that it should be a target of coverage in twenty-four months of 420 euros, instead of the current dispersion. We have also made proposals on training and pointed out the peculiarity of this case when early retirement was discussed. It would therefore have been easy to reach an agreement, Mr Simancas; we have reached agreements in the past, there is not so much difference in our approaches. Unfortunately in this case we will not be able to vote in favour of the non-law proposal. We will have to abstain because your proposal does not go along any of these lines, but your star proposal is the creation of 200,000 jobs directly by the public administrations. We thought that if something had taught us this crisis it was that the public administrations do not have unlimited resources, that the money of the public administrations does not come out of nowhere, which is not infinite. Therefore, it makes no sense to create fictitious jobs that are only sustained on the basis of the public budget; however, this seems to be the approach of the initiative. They do not even bother to consider what activities these people would develop and what would be the relationship between the activities and their qualification. It seems that the administrations had a magic wand with which they can create 200,000 jobs; we do not know why 200,000, better 600,000, if this is the approach. Finally, to put it more colloquially, we cannot support a third version of PlanE or PlanF or what it is called now, so our vote will be abstention. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u72	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. For the Convergence and Unity Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Simancas, if the question that we are discussing is not all that serious - then I will go into the background of the debate - I would be tempted to tell you that your initiative seems inspired by President Underwood - I do not know if you follow House of cards - that in the third season you propose a plan similar to that which you put to us, even more powerful: $45,000 for each job created in the private sector. But your proposal will be discussed in a more serious way, among other things because we share the diagnosis of the problem of unemployment among those over 45 years of age. Today there are three times more unemployed at that age than before the crisis and one in three. We have all insisted not only on the magnitude of the problem, but also on the specific difficulties faced by this group: 57% of these unemployed have family burdens. Mr Anchuelo said - and he rightly said it - that our debates often focus on youth unemployment, and it is true that this deserves our attention, but that group, which has less room for life, also has these family burdens. And 67% of these unemployed have only primary education. Therefore, an important, large group, with vital time to reinvent itself scarcely, with low levels of training and with family burdens that make this whole situation harder. In the light of that reality, you put forward a concrete proposal that my group does not just share in its formulation. I am also sure that the spokesmen of the Group of the European People's Party will criticise you that, in the face of your criticism of the growth of the temporality resulting from the reform of the labour market, which has not been eradicated, your proposal is more temporary work. Mr Anchouelo reminded him that the public sector has a limited capacity for job creation; Mr Coscubiela warned him of the risk of returning to another practice that has explained the excesses of temporality of our labour market, the role of local administrations creating temporary employment. I therefore believe that your proposal, which is well-intentioned, has weaknesses. At the same time, if today we were really debating the implementation of this measure - and I am very afraid that the majority group will not allow us to have this debate - my group would propose that the resources needed for this policy be transferred to the autonomous communities, which are competent in active employment policies, and that during this crisis they have seen the resources for these policies being reduced very substantially, in the case of Catalonia more than 50%. I say this because a few days ago the Government of the Generalitat has just announced the implementation of a specific plan for this group with the name of the great actius, large assets, with a budget of 50 million euros and that it intends to benefit 30,000 unemployed from this profile with recruitment aid, with specific training plans, with programmes of accreditation of competences, which for this group seems to us essential, with individual attention, with collaboration of the private placement agencies and the social initiatives that exist in this field. If we are to focus a policy on this collective, we must provide the autonomous communities with the means to effectively develop that policy. Moreover, Mr Simancas, in a context that you and we share: that the personalisation of active employment policies, the individualised attention to the unemployed and more to the unemployed of these characteristics requires greater transfers from the State to autonomous public employment services so that they can develop these policies. That has not been done in this legislature; this legislature will have been a bad legislature for public employment services. In this legislature, and we are reminded by international bodies, we are even investing less in the formation of the unemployed than we were investing in before the crisis. It doesn't make any sense. Having said that, since we have not finished sharing one hundred percent of your proposal, we will opt for a prudent abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u74	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simancas' speech, apart from showing that he is not at all interested in those over forty-five years of age, confirms that he was here today at an election rally and not worrying about those over forty-five years of age. Mr. Simancas, where were you from 2007 to 2011? I'll answer it. I was pressing that button, supporting all the measures of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's Government that led 3.5 million people to unemployment, and hundreds of thousands of those 3.5 million unemployed were people of forty-six years old who are now forty-five years old. That's what you and many of your colleagues did for the four years you ruled. In addition, I consider you to be an intelligent person because you have shown it to me and I have seen it in many interventions, but that you do not know what is happening in Spain, that you do not know what the Government is doing and that you do not know about the job creation that is taking place for those over forty-five years of age, the only thing that comes to show is that this non-law proposal has bad political intentions. Mr Anchuelo has stepped on me at the beginning of my speech, because he has made the most of it. You have learned nothing from the crisis that you hid and then increased. What they are doing with this non-legislative proposal is another planE, directly and simply another planE, which, as the Court of Auditors itself said, served absolutely nothing, served nothing but to spend public money and not create a single job, and EUR 13 billion was spent. The Court of Auditors says so. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous because the Court of Auditors says it, I don't say it. Moreover, this non-law proposition is an absolute contradiction of yourselves. I do not know if you are no longer in agreement with your current leader or what is happening to you, but it cannot be that the secretary general of the Socialist Party makes today in the Senate the intervention I have in hand talking about ending temporality and precariousness, and you bring here today a non-law proposal for temporary contracts of six months and with a salary of the interprofessional minimum wage. Mr Simancas, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, quite the opposite of what the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party said today in the Senate, which I suppose would also be a rally, like you here. That's your reality, Your Honor. I understand that it shields them and hurts them, but that's their reality. Who do we pay attention to, the Secretary General of the Socialist Party or the Socialist Parliamentary Group? Because this is a contradiction in itself, a contradiction in yourselves. Where do you want to go? I understand that electoral nervousness leads you to these situations... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u77	...but I believe that the forty-five-year-olds deserve respect for themselves and do not deserve you to play with them. Because, as another spokesman has rightly said, why 200,000? What about the rest? The rest of you don't care? The rest of the forty-five-year-olds, except those 200,000, don't they care? Have you not learned that it is SMEs and self-employed who create jobs? You didn't want to know about that? Haven't you learned that from the crisis? Don't you know that when you ruled, in the fourth quarter of 2011, the unemployment of the over forty-five years of age grew by 19.1% in one quarter and that in the first quarter of 2015 the unemployment of over forty-five years of age has been reduced by 3.4%? Do you not know the reality of this country, or what you did, or what we do? Because you increased the unemployment of those over forty-five years of age; we reduced it, ladies and gentlemen, to such an extent that it was 407,300 workers over forty-five years of age who found a job and most of them were you who brought them to unemployment. That is the reality of this GNP that you are presenting. I could go on, because I have a lot of arguments, but I'm running out of time. I would really ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, first of all to agree with your Secretary-General, to be able to reach an understanding of your political approaches with the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, but above all, please, to have a great deal of respect for the unemployed in this country, those who, with their policies, have led to unemployment. Be able to at least have respect and not play electorally with them. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u78	Thank you, Mr. Merino. Mr Simancas, I take it from Mr Coscubala's speech that you accept the amendment to add to the text of his proposal. [[Consent]] All right, that will be done in the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u79	We now proceed to discuss motions arising from urgent appeals. Firstly - which is what we are going to discuss today - the motion for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's inquiry into the measures the Government intends to take to prevent the emigration of Spanish young people and to encourage the return of those who have been forced to leave Spain. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for her presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not seem to me that what is falling outside of employment for the long-term unemployed or for the young people I am going to talk about now is a respectable attitude, a dignified attitude that both the Minister of Employment last week and the spokesman of the People's Party have just had. The Socialist Party's proposal is very clear: we must change what the Rajoy government has done because the Rajoy government is the one that has generated the most unemployment, and has been ruling for four years. The Rajoy Government has caused insecurity and poverty. That is going to be done with the proposal made this morning by the Secretary-General concerning the new Staff Regulations and, of course, repealing labour reform. [[Applauds]] We also have sensitivity, not like you, and at the same time we are going to make a shock plan, like the one Mr Simancas has presented and like the one I am going to develop here now. Gentlemen of the PP, a little sensitivity, but above all a little respect because there are many people out there suffering because of their policies and it is a lack of respect what we have heard here today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u81	Madam, González Veracruz, return to your debate. The debate has taken place before, it is not going to be that I am asked to speak out of allusions and I have to give it. So you go to your place. [[Protests.- Mrs Álvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u82	Okay, Madam President. I'm starting. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u83	Mrs. Alvarez, it's all right. [[Mrs Álvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Alvarez, it's all right. I don't get your attention anymore. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u84	It's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not a country for young people; Spain is neither a country for young people nor for women nor for older than 45 years of age, of which I do not want to forget even if this motion does not deal with their problems. And it is not a country for people because we have suffered a very serious crisis, it is very clear, but above all because the crisis must be added to the four years of soulless politics of the right. Because it has nothing to do with the crisis or the economy how you have imposed your ideology on each of the measures. They have dismantled public services and that is unemployment; they have left the working class unprotected and in no way helpless, and that is fear, insecurity and lack of opportunity. And that's why, whether you like it or not, deny it or recognize it, the Spaniards leave Spain, the Spaniards are having to leave our country. They're not leaving, they're throwing them out. There is a consensus figure, more than 400,000 young Spaniards who are economically exiled, and it is not official, it is not official because the Government does not recognize the problem, nor does it know, nor does it want to know. There are many proposals that during this parliamentary term - it is going to be doing almost four years now - we Socialists have made and in no way have we been listened to, not even in making a report on the people who go out and what situation and what needs they have abroad. The Government continues to deny reality; rather, it is in that parallel reality in which they live. On this issue, as in so many others, the Rajoy government is showing itself opaque; it simply despises parliamentaryism and citizenship. I have to remember the day that Minister Báñez told us that there was not a phenomenon of economic exile but of external mobility or those phrases as unwise as it was young adventurers who came out. [[The Lord]] Unfortunately it is not about external mobility; I myself had the opportunity to go abroad and it is something that we of course encourage and support socialists from all the policies where we govern, but nothing has to do with choosing to go abroad, as I did, to train you, to have a better curriculum, to have to go compulsory. And who would tell us, especially the young people of my generation, that in 2015 many young people - and also older people - would have to take their bags and leave our country, as they did in the 1960s? All this is a generated problem and a problem added to the crisis itself, which has only one name, is called Rajoy's Government. Because cuts in science have generated brain drain; because cuts in education and health have generated more unemployment, and especially because their labor reform has been directly the law of dismissal. In short, we just need to look at the data to know that youth unemployment is higher today than in 2011 and to see that the latest EPA continues to give really sad data. But it is not only unemployment, it is also the precariousness and poverty that its policies generate. Precarious because they chain training contracts up to thirty, without limitations - eternal apprentices - because the average duration of contracts is fifty-four days. You have turned Spain's brand into precariousness, ultratemporaryity and wages of poverty. And, as I said, there is an origin, the labor reform, that reform that we are going to repeal at the same time that we are going to be a government; that reform that we are going to transform with the Workers' Statute that we announced today in order to regain that stable job, without abandoning the shock plans, like the one I want to present here today. In short, what we want, because it is not worth it for young people to look back, is to look to the future, to look beyond 2015, so we present this motion with several very clear points. The first, a proposal for a research talent and professional talent program. Just by recovering the investment that you have cut, as we signed all the groups in the House except you, creating the research agency that we all committed to in a Science Act in 2011, which is not being implemented, we would have a much more favorable framework to avoid brain drain. But let's be realistic, it takes a shock plan to recover all those who have left and to stop those who are here from getting out. Also in this line a professional talent program for middle and higher-skilled young managers and technicians. Another point we are proposing in this motion concerns the European Youth Guarantee Programme, in which I really think you are doing a crazy policy, or depoliticism. First they did not approve it; it is a proposal led by the socialists in Europe and thanks to it we have billions in this country, which are not being managed as they deserve, at the height of the problem of youth unemployment; it does not reach 5 out of every 100 young people to whom it is directed, so we propose changes in the way in which it is implemented, which is developed through the public services of State and autonomous employment, as previously proposed by the spokesman of CiU, and that the procedures to really reach the 850,000 beneficiaries and not those 10,000 that the government says, the other day the minister said 30,000, but an absolutely unsatisfactory figure for what it should cover. And, of course, we believe that in order to achieve the objectives, we need to recover the 3,000 job leaders and promoters who were fired in 2011; in short, we need to recover the active employment policies that you have abandoned at the time when they were most lacking. Finally, a fundamental issue for us and who were present today in the reform of the alternative status to what we have, to what we suffer, is to review all the existing regulations regarding training contracts, non-work practices and scholarship programmes, because it is enough to exploit young people in our country, because the only thing that is being offered to a young person today in a country like Spain in the 21st century is to choose between unemployment, poverty at work or economic exile, and that is what we want to change. And we are going to change it with policies at root, at the bottom, such as those we are proposing and also with shock plans, such as the one I raised today in this motion and with the +45 programme. In short, the reality of young people shows that the Government neither appreciates nor cares for its young people, and that is simply why, from my point of view, it does not deserve to remain the Government of this country. Even so, we continue to build, look to the future and make realistic, feasible proposals that can solve the plight of so many thousands of young people and therefore their families. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs González Veracruz. Amendments have been tabled to this motion. For the defence of the first of them, Mr Anchuelo has the floor for Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. The terrible crisis that the Spanish economy has suffered has different readings and each one points to a line of fracture in our society. It has a territorial reading - you just have to see the difference in unemployment rates between northern and southern Spain - it has a social reading, and we have often discussed it here, but it has a less frequent reading that is generational reading, and if we do that reading it is clear that the generational group damaged by antonomasy in this crisis are our young people. All we have to do is put ourselves in the shoes of one of them and think about what can be expected statistically if we look to the future. Unemployment is most likely; more than half of our young people are unemployed, that is the highest probability, unemployment. Lucky people can get a job, but what kind of job? Precarious, temporary, chained jobs, with wages that make being a milleurist has become a privilege. And some ask what the motion points to as a last resort: emigration, often of the most qualified. Is this a result of the crisis or is it also a result of policies? Other countries have also suffered from crises and yet there is a very important difference in the rate of youth unemployment in Spain compared to other European countries, something which has also had to influence public policies. It would not be so strange because there have been cuts in essential expenses that affect our young people, in educational spending, in research spending. There has been a labour reform with which very precarious contractual arrangements have been put in place, which they have access to today: the training contract, with very little training, or the scholarships, which are often aimed at already trained people who re-enrol in an educational institution. There is an exciting European programme, which is the youth guarantee, but it does not seem that it is being implemented quickly or that its quantitative impact corresponds to the hopes it had initially generated. We believe that things could have been done differently and that is what we have put forward throughout the legislature. In the face of the cut in essential education expenditure, R & D, there was the alternative of cutting less necessary expenditure by reforming administrations, but there the provincial parliaments continue to function, there the municipalities continue without merging, there the advisory councils follow in full operation. In the face of precariousness, we believe that there was an alternative and that this is the subject of our amendment. It seems to us to be an essential issue for young people: the single indefinite contract, the formula to give stability in employment to our young people, that stability that would allow them access to training. We believe that this is an idea that will eventually be opened up over time, but unfortunately many young people will not have been able to benefit from it. We have also proposed - we have proposed this in the European Parliament and here - that not only young people under the age of 21 should have access to the youth guarantee programme, but that this barrier should be extended until the age of 30, something which seems to be happening again late in the evening. There are other measures that have to do with external mobility; the term is very stimulating, external mobility, but can it be applied without blushing external mobility to the case of a young man who leaves because he has no other remedy and arrives without any support from our country to another country and there opens the way as he can? In the State General Budgets we have reinforced headings that did help external mobility, for example the Erasmus programme, a very interesting formula for external mobility that facilitates employment when one returns and does not move large amounts; that programme has, however, suffered severe cuts. We have also proposed in the budgets that services be strengthened in our embassies to support those young people who migrate. If we did these things, we could talk about external mobility, but a young man leaves because he has no other remedy left and from a ministry he is presumed to be paradoxical. In any case, the motion before us is in line with the proposals we share or have sometimes also raised. I therefore announce that, independently of whether or not our amendment is accepted, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. To present the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Ildefonso Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again debating a subject which is undoubtedly our country's main problem, employment, and particularly the employment of the youngest, a subject on which we have not only debated a great deal throughout this parliamentary term, but which has also been done a great deal in this parliamentary term, and which from the beginning has been the main objective of the Government, which cannot be accused of being left with arms. However, in addition to the measures that can be taken - and as I have pointed out many - there is a sine qua non requirement. You were talking to me about soulless politics; perhaps I would talk to you about brainless politics, because it seems you have not yet understood that if there is no growth, there can be no employment, that there is no country in the world capable of generating employment if there is no economic growth, let alone if it is immersed in a recession. It is not the Government or the administrations that generate employment, since employment is not created by decree, but it is the enterprises and society with their economic activity that create employment. What a Government can do is to create conditions for growth and thereby create jobs, and that is what the Government has been doing since the beginning of the legislature. That is why today, the result of the government's reforms, the efforts of all Spaniards, we are beginning to collect the results. 400.034 jobs have been created in 2014, economic growth is on the rise, we are going to have a growth of 2.9% in 2015, as announced by the President of the Government - see how different we are from what we are at the end of 2011 - and in two years we will have a million jobs. Therefore, we are not facing slogans, we are not facing green outbreaks, we are facing a change that has occurred and that cannot be denied without blushing. However, we understand that so many years of crisis have left deep wounds. That is why our parliamentary group believes that this initiative, aimed at encouraging the return of our most valuable human capital, at consolidating policies such as youth guarantee or at promoting training and employment through dual vocational training, is an opportunity for the agreement and to build together. That is why we have tabled an amendment which has a will for consensus, which has a constructive spirit and which has objectives that I believe are shared by all. It is an amendment that embraces the initiative of your group and in which there is a high level of consensus at its first point, of which we even adopt the name of the Plan for the Return of Scientific and Professional Talent, which will be conducted through the appropriate vehicle, which in this case is the State programme for the promotion of talent and its employability in R+D+i, which already exists, which has been approved by the Government and which contains programmes for the return of researchers, as well as that there is a 100 per cent replacement rate in the research staff - as it has been approved for 2015 - or the commitment to increase investments for the promotion and promotion of R+D+i within the budget available, resulting from this improvement in growth and improvement in public accounts. There is a second point where there is a great coincidence, which is that of incentives for entrepreneurial return; a matter, entrepreneurship, on which the Government has done a lot in this legislature. There are also important coincidences in youth guarantee, which is the result of the Government's negotiation at European level, and which allocates important resources for training, employability and youth opportunities, and in which we propose that the financing of the autonomous communities be improved through this improvement, which has been achieved by the Ministry in the pre-financing of youth guarantee, or the introduction of measures necessary to ensure the extension of the guarantee programme to children under 30, as also announced by the Minister. [[Rumors]] The fourth is that of vocational training in alternation to encourage the return of unemployed young people to the education system; a dual vocational training that has been promoted by the People's Party Government, which is linked to the training and learning contract and is undergoing a very positive development: there are 341,000 contracts since January 2012 - which is a very important progression - with 131% more in 2014 than in 2012. This has allowed us today's data, from the latest EPA, to show that unemployment in children under the age of 30 has been reduced by 267,000 people in the legislature, showing that something is changing in our labour market. However, I do not want to miss the opportunity to point out that it is necessary to shed light on those young people who are leaving and those who are looking for better opportunities, which are indeed there. I will provide you with the data of the emigrants of the year 2013. In 2013, half a million people left Spain, of whom 143,000 were young people under the age of thirty and 10,000 were born in Spain, of whom 3,595 were under the age of twenty-five. Therefore, 85.7% of the leave of young people aged 15 to 29 corresponds to young people born outside Spain who are naturalised and who return to their countries of origin. It is exactly the same as you claim for young people who have had to leave Spain, who return to their countries of origin. We want the Spaniards to return here, all the young people, even those who have not been born in Spain. [[The Rumors Continue]] On the other hand, he has spoken throughout his speech about the need to improve the quality of recruitment. It is curious, because the other day I was reading a tweet from the president of ATA - who, by the way, has spoken very well about the last reform concerning self-employed people that the government has proposed - who said that it is true, that the quality of recruitment needs to be improved, that it is a reality and a challenge, although those who most criticize the quality of employment are unable to create it. [[Rumors]] Look, I'm starting to doubt if I was thinking exactly about you. In any case, it is obvious that much remains to be done, but the amendment we have put forward is a hand to the Socialist Group, a hand to the agreement. This is what society demands of us. The ball, ladies and gentlemen, is on your roof. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Pastor. Position-fixing turn. Firstly, Mr Baldoví has the floor for the Joint Group, which will be addressed by a number of speakers.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u90	The ministry works to ensure that young people who want to seek opportunities outside Spain can do so because that is called external mobility. - Fátima Báñez in pure state and without complexes. The emigration of young people abroad is not only due to the economic crisis, but also to globalisation, the free movement of workers in Europe, the demand for professionals for their good technical preparation and, if not, the adventurous impulse of young people. - Marina del Moral, Secretary General of Immigration and Emigration, no complexes. It is a cynical way of telling what an entire generation is suffering: the forced expulsion of their land, environment or life. A diaspora that has faces and eyes, since they leave family, friends, their life because they have no choice; or rather, because with the economic policy of the People's Party and their lack of recognition of the problem, their inability to find solutions and their idea that praying to the Virgin lowers unemployment, they leave them no choice. They have rescued banks, but have forgotten to guarantee a future for a generation. [[Rumors]] In our view, the solution is not just about repatriation plans, it is about creating jobs here, creating opportunities for those who have not yet left and for those who want to return. We want all the aid and programmes that young people who have emigrated to be able to benefit from, to be also available to young people who have stayed. And we also want to support young people who are out to do the procedures to get back: validations, etc.; to exercise their rights there is no need to take away their health care card. And one last point: it is necessary to facilitate voting from abroad; in these elections thousands and thousands of young people will be left without voting and all because of their fault. But for all that, we will have to change the government. In my land, in Valencia, we are already on it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mrs Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. The year 2013 I had the opportunity, on May 30, to celebrate Canary Day in Berlin with young canaries who were there. I can assure you one thing, gentlemen of the People's Party: there were scientists, musicians, super-prepared, talented people who were not in Berlin because they loved Berlin; they had to leave because they were recognized there for their work but it was not the life they wanted. And then I was with other young people who without being scientists had done what their parents told them: study, that if you study you will have a chance in this country... What we told the young people, and after finishing a career, they were scrubbing dishes in Berlin. So clear. They were also not voluntarily in Berlin. That is why I think it is important, after the effort this country has made in formation, to give hope and opportunity to so many talented people again. [[The Rumors Continue]] On the other hand, there is a very important part in this motion that we denounce here several times: the importance of including the youth guarantee programme up to the age of 30. We've got people who've finished their studies, caught up with the crisis, and they haven't had a chance. This is very important, but above all, the problems that have occurred in the processing. That is why it is so important for us to open the deadlines and for the call to be open on a permanent basis. As for telematics records, it's been a real disaster. The role that autonomous communities have to play in ensuring that training, job opportunities are adapted to the market of each autonomous community, is very important, and the autonomous communities have practically been excluded. That is why the canarian nationalists will support this motion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u94	Yes, Mr. President. I'm speaking from the seat. While the Government and the People's Group that supported it remained in that complacent attitude of defining the situation of young people who left as geographical mobility, they were instead defined as exiles. And they are defined as exiles, ladies and gentlemen, because they understand that they are not leaving, but they are being expelled, and they are being denied the lack of work opportunities that this Government is denying them. Because it is not true, as the spokesman for the People's Group has said, that the Government is doing everything possible. What has the government done in R & D but created the conditions for our young scientists to have to leave the Spanish state? In Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we live this situation in a way I do not know whether it is so serious or more than in the rest of the state. The truth is that a quarter of the emigrants are from our country. Three out of four families have one emigrant, the majority of whom are now witnessing even from the different states in which they are working, demanding unity from political forces so that a policy can be made that allows them to return. Returning to the ground is a platform created in Galicia of many young people who want to return, above all, to bring to their country the wisdom, knowledge and work that they are in a position to do. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind that the abandonment of our young people has a tremendous impact on depopulation or population reduction. [[Rumors]] That is why we are going to support this motion by the Socialist Group, because we understand that it has measures that serve to promote those policies that young people demand and that they are policies of job creation, policies of opportunity even for that training to which the Spanish State is not giving alternatives of work. We support this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the employment of young people - or, we should say more properly, the lack of employment, since more than half of them want to work cannot do so - is one of the most serious consequences of the profound economic crisis in which we find ourselves. It is also in the personal, family and social aspects, but it is also in the economic sphere. Unfortunately, more than fifteen years have passed since the beginning of the crisis so that young people have the same job opportunities as before the crisis broke out. Let us also hope that employment opportunities will not be the same as in the past in the construction sector, when with low qualifications they achieved high wages through a huge real estate bubble. Today there are many young graduates, some hyperformed, I would say, with careers, masters, languages and other courses and who spend Mondays in the sun. Some of them - many in number - choose to seek an opportunity, a job outside our borders and in many cases also find temporary, precarious and poorly paid employment, but something is something, although abroad does not care for dogs with long-term care. Some, the least, find a good job and can carry out their life projects even if it is far from their families, friends and surroundings. In addition to the personal dramas, which are not very few, the waste that means not incorporating into our economic system the knowledge acquired by our young people has implications for economic growth, modes of operation, capacity for innovation, etc. Thus, recovering them from unemployment or from abroad is beneficial, socially and economically, and we owe it to them after they have consistently asked them to form, to study, promising them in return an opportunity for employment and life. In this context, we will support as many initiatives and measures as possible in this direction. We cannot afford to condemn an entire generation of young people to ostracism; no more than we have already done, without preventing those young people who want to carry out their professional work abroad from doing so, but who do so freely, not because they do not have an opportunity inside. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative, although what the Socialist Group has put forward is an electoral programme rather than a motion itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what makes a problem more serious, what makes it difficult for them to approach and solve, is for them to be denied their existence. That is exactly what the spokesman for the People's Group has done again today, and it is not a personal and momentary slip; it is part of the strategic line of thinking with which the People's Party and the Government have addressed the fundamental problem of the situation of young people in our country, both those left here in precarious situations and those forced into exile. Other speakers have repeated this, but it became very clear when the Minister of Employment analyzed this reality not as a pathological reality, but as a normality, because to talk about the situation of young people - who are forced to emigrate from our country not to seek better expectations, but because here they have none - in terms of external mobility is to want to deny the problem and give that pathology appearance of normality. Gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Government, what there is is not external mobility, which is something voluntary; what there is forced exile of young people because in Spain, unfortunately, they do not have opportunities. [[Rumors]] And let me be as fair as possible: it is not just a problem of this stage of government, although it has certainly increased; it is not just a problem of crisis or politics. Unfortunately we have a productive fabric - I will not tire of repeating it - with very innovative companies that know how to take advantage of the training of their young people, but we also have an idle productive fabric, gandul, which is used to catching trained, highly qualified workers and to using them in infra-formatively and infra-productively for low-skilled jobs. We have highly qualified engineers who are currently charging just over 800 euros. That is the problem, but the policy pursued by this Government has encouraged it. From that point of view, the main problem is to deal normally with something that is a pathological situation. That is why we are going to support the Socialist Group's proposal. It seems that the Government does not suffer from this situation of exile of young people, and I do not say that I do not want it, but, as the exile of young people supposes that they cease to be part of the working population, without doing anything, curiously, lower the level of unemployment, because to the extent that the working population decreases there is a purely statistical reduction in the reality of unemployment in Spain. At the moment, the situation of young people in our country has at least three very serious problems that we should address, and we should do so since the agreement. That requires the People's Party and the Government to recognize that the problem exists, first and foremost in social terms. It has already been said - there is no need to insist - that it cannot continue to condemn the best-formed generation in history to a situation of lack of expectations for the coming years. Secondly, in economic and educational terms we are becoming, if I may say so, the Indians of Europe; I am referring to the Indian citizens, whom their country is very well trained to then export to the whole world as the best qualified. We cannot continue to train our young people without having expectations, because that is something that benefits other economies, while this country imports unskilled personnel to sustain an idle productive fabric that feeds strictly of low formative and productive quality. And, thirdly, there is a democratic problem. Have you realized that the lack of expectations of these young people today is the main corrosive factor in our democratic system? That is to say, one of the factors at the moment of young people's detachment, if they have ever had attachment to our democratic system, is that lack of expectations. Society does not generate any expectation, it is excluding them, and they respond by placing themselves in a position not of self-marginalization, but of being excluded by the system itself. That is the gravity of this problem. [[The Rumors Continue]] Finally, let me refer to an issue that I must mention because it will continue to come out in these debates repeatedly, which is the famous magic pocima, the famous balm of Fierabras of the single contract. There are things in which I agree with my friend Álvaro Anchoro but not in that. As the single contract is going to have more and more godparents who are going to dispute that brilliant idea, let me tell you something I have already told you many times: for young people to have the right it is not a solution to be taken away from the workers who already have it, it has never been.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u99	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u100	I'm done. The conflict is not between young people with few rights and older ones with old age and older ones who are much or are overprotected, as Luis Garicano said the other day. No, no, the solution is not that; the solution is how this country is able to generate expectations for young people without frustrating the expectations of those over 45. [[Rumors]] The rights of young people and the rights of those over the age of 45 cannot be confronted. What is in conflict are the rights of workers with the rights of those who want to continue paying some and other salaries of 800 euros even though they are very trained people. We will therefore support the Socialist Group's motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr Campuzano has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió. [[The Rumors Continue]] I beg your silence, please, because you can't hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say that we are going to vote in favour of this motion by the Socialist Group. We could have tabled amendments to some of their considerations, but in global terms we agree with the proposals we are making and with some of the criticisms they raise of government policy. I just want to insist on a few arguments that we have used in other debates in this area. Firstly, when we talk about youth unemployment, we must inevitably analyse the polarization of our educational system. There are too many young people leaving the education system prematurely, too few young people in middle education and a number of young people with higher education just on the OECD average, above States such as Germany, who do not find employment opportunities in our productive system. [[Rumors]] This problem of overqualification is expressed in young people who are working on activities that have little to do with their level of training, with salaries far from the expectations that their career, their degree, had generated, and it is also expressed through this immigration of young people. Perhaps in a context other than the one we are living in, in the context of a growing economy, of a functioning economy, we could praise the mobility of young people at European level during this crisis, but that was not the expression of the entrepreneurial vocation of young people in the positive sense, but the vocation of young people has been to emerge from a society that does not create opportunities. In this sense, very few days ago the Cambridge Monitor was made public, where it was claimed that 84% of Spanish youth believed that they had no future in Spain. In Catalonia, this figure reached 89%. It is not a smaller figure and it is the expression of a very profound pathology that affects our labour market. Thus, along with other considerations that we have made from the rostrum, addressing the fundamental issues of our educational system becomes fundamental in any of the policies we come up with. Secondly, the Socialist Group in its motion raises some considerations on the youth guarantee, we share them and we have also expressed them in own parliamentary initiatives, in control sessions, in government appearances. Moreover, already advanced in 2015, we have the great risk and the great scandal that the youth guarantee fails in its implementation in Spain, and that it fails for many reasons: one, for a question that you point out in your motion, which is the computer system. The computer system that the Ministry of Employment has created to allow young people to access this youth guarantee is almost impossible to access. Young people do not have an electronic identity document, and even less so, young people with the lowest level of education, who are the ones most in need of this resource, and any choice other than an electronic identity document is of an absurd complexity that discourages any young person. At the same time, the fact that the autonomous communities, or at least some of them, cannot cope with investments to implement the youth guarantee, may imply that it does not develop in its full dimension. It would be very serious to see the unemployment situation that we suffer. The Government has rectified and agreed to some petition that the opposition groups were formulating as extending the youth guarantee to the age of 30. Welcome be that measure, but the implementation of the youth guarantee should focus not primarily on subsidizing recruitment, which may be appropriate under certain circumstances, but on addressing the weaknesses of our employment systems and active youth employment policies that would affect at least two issues. Firstly, individualized care for young people, which has appeared in the previous debate and which means more resources for public employment services for such personal care. Secondly, all the walkways that make the second opportunities possible, therefore, allow a young person who has left the education system to reintegrate into the training systems. That requires more resources for those policies. [[The Rumors Continue]] Finally, I conclude, Mr President, the debate on the shock of generations that Mr Anchuelo raised with us seems to us to be wrong. It is not a question of affirming today that some are more protected than others, but that our welfare state...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u103	Mr. Campuzano, you have to finish, but the others must remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that our welfare State should be more youth-oriented and child-oriented, and that is the great weakness that youth unemployment also expresses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs González Veracruz, since there are two amendments, you have to tell me what you are doing with them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u106	First of all, we appreciate the support of UPyD, but we cannot accept its amendment, since today we have presented our model that reflects three types of contract...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u107	Mrs González Veracruz, don't argue and define.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u108	In the case of the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party, I cannot accept it, since...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u109	Do we vote on our own terms?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u110	We voted on its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u111	All right. That'll be done in a few minutes. [[Rumors.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u112	Let's start the voting. It takes into account the proposed law of the Socialist Group amending article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. There are 3 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 306 plus 3 telematics votes, 309; in favour, 137 plus 1 telematics vote, 138; against, 167 plus 2 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u113	It's not taken into consideration. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July 2001 approving the text of the water law. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/000196]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u114	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Group, PNV, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July, approving the consolidated text of the Water Act. There are 3 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 3 telematics votes, 309; 36; 270 plus 3 telematics votes, 273.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u115	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u116	No bill of the People's Group in Congress on the elaboration by the Ministry of Defence of the protocol on sexual harassment, on grounds of sex and profession, in the Armed Forces. There is a compromise amendment, which you know of and which is the one that we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 302.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u117	It was adopted unanimously. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE URGENT IMPLANTION OF THE GUARANTEE+45 PROGRAMME. [[File number 162/0001218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u118	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the urgent implementation of the Guarantee+45 programme. There is an addition to the amendment by the Plural Left Group and that is what we are voting on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 119 against, 165 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u119	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u120	Motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the measures the Government intends to take to prevent the emigration of Spanish young people and to encourage the return of those who have been forced to leave Spain in search of employment opportunities. The vote will take place on the terms of the proposal itself. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour 138 against 168.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-28-CD150428.u121	The motion is rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and ten minutes of the night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 275, for the 258th plenary meeting held on Thursday, 23 April 2015, on page 38, in the result of the second ballot where it says 'abstentions, 144' it should read 'abstentions 114'.
