ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u1	The meeting was resumed. Agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/139 and 110/140. Some groups have expressed their desire to intervene. I remind you that you have five minutes per group. The Joint Group, in principle, seems to be unwilling to do so. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, respecting the five minutes allotted. As for the agreement with Saudi Arabia, I will start with a name: Raif Badawi. I know that many of you will say that the convention we ratify today has nothing to do with that, that it is different and that today's is something else, but for us today's convention also has the name Raif Badawi. There are borders and ethical codes that cannot be crossed; ethical, human and political codes, and we cannot admit that those borders are being crossed. Saudi Arabia is persecuted, condemned and punished for thinking differently, for acting differently, for doing things that would be normal in our society. From a democracy we cannot allow that to happen. This gentleman has been sentenced to a thousand whips. Someone will say that this sentence has stopped, that is that you are not going to give those beatings, but for us that does not count, you cannot make blackmailers paripes, what is to do is not to condemn. It is not worth saying: now we stop it, but that you are still doomed to it. No, we can't have certain relationships. When you're in certain clubs, when you're in certain international associations, we can't have partners doing those things. We must therefore do our utmost to ensure that such punishments disappear from the legislation in those countries; indeed, punishments that are prohibited by international law, precisely by the Convention against Torture. We know that this little gesture of the Basque Nationalist Party will not go forward, but we cannot allow this to happen. From a democracy we must send a message to a country that is not. We must send a message to Saudi Arabia saying that the PNV does not accept this. We are therefore not going to support this ratification. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u4	Thank you, President. I too will refer to the Agreement for the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments with Saudi Arabia, which is being put to the vote today. It is indeed a standard agreement, as are so many others that are signed to protect reciprocally investments with other countries. The question, however, is precisely that the situation in Saudi Arabia is not standard and human rights are not standard, nor are the most elementary freedoms standard. Therefore, we cannot treat Saudi Arabia with the same standards with which we treat other countries where democratic minimums prevail. And there is the circumstance that there is at this time a blogger, Raif Badawi, who has been mentioned by the previous spokesman, who has been condemned to a thousand whips. When we talk about ISIS, that medieval and savage jihadist terrorism, it is inevitable to evoke other medieval and savage behaviors, such as condemning a human being to be whipped for the only crime of expressing his views on social networks, something that has been turned by the Saudi regime into insults to Islam. We believe that not only is there a problem of opportunity in this agreement and that the wisest thing would be at least to freeze it, at least to stop it, but there is a deep problem in our relations with Saudi Arabia. We believe that the double standards used by our Government in international relations are very evident. We cannot go out in defence of freedom of expression when an attack is taking place in Paris - a regrettable attack in Paris that we have all condemned - and yet we must avoid how serious violations are being made by the States themselves and by the Governments themselves of fundamental rights and freedoms such as freedom of expression. Our group can only use these five minutes to claim the liberation of Raif Badawi, to claim a change in our country's relations with Saudi Arabia and above all to claim human rights; national interests must of course defend them - and in this we are also pragmatic - but always by the hand of human rights in our trade relations and in our international relations. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Llamazares has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the other agreement, called medical countermeasures. For a moment, I was overwhelmed and I thought our time had come, that time when the doctors applied the maximum that people would be cured with them, without them and despite them. But it wasn't about that. The initiative we are debating today is very important. It has to do with a fiasco, but sometimes fiascos give rise to major corrections. It has to do with the cross-border threat of flu and the massive purchase of vaccines and Tamiflu that has been stored who knows where. These drugs are also stored in Spain. That failure led to a reflection within the framework of the European Union on the joint purchase of medicines, not just vaccines - joint purchase of medicines, I would like to draw your attention - and in particular antivirals. At present there are tens of thousands of citizens who see with uncertainty the price of Tamiflu or the price of Sofosbuvir, which is vital for its healing. Well, here we have a Community instrument that allows the countries of the European Union jointly to negotiate with large multinational companies to lower prices. I believe that from now on the government cannot say that it does not have an instrument to lower a price on which it has so far deceived us: it is not 25,000 euros, it is 43,000 euros each treatment when the company does not cost more than 100 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. Mr Nuet also has the floor on the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u8	Thank you, President. Our group will vote against the Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the promotion and mutual protection of investments. We have read this convention carefully and, indeed, it is a dotty convention, detailing in depth the promotion and mutual protection of investments. And it's fine. But, of course, the question has already been asked by some Members: where is the promotion and mutual protection between Spain and Saudi Arabia of other things? Or are we gonna sign this agreement and do it with our nose covered with a tweezer? We are going to vote on this agreement - or they are going to vote on this agreement and they are going to sign it - with their nose covered with a clamp, because they are going to forget, as was explained earlier, the thousand whips; they are going to forget that we also have to promote and protect human rights in Spain and Saudi Arabia; they are going to forget that we have to promote and protect religious freedom in Saudi Arabia, and they are going to forget that we have to protect and promote women's rights, also in Saudi Arabia. So let's send a message, as the spokesman for the Basque Parliamentary Group said before.Let's send a message, let's not send the king of Spain to the state funerals of a dictatorship. [[EAJ-PNV]] Let's send a democratic message. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will comment and set the position on behalf of my group on the two conventions which are the subject of debate and vote. I will also start by referring, like Mr Llamazares, to a good instrument and a good measure which this morning, in a quick vote and in a quick debate, we will face: the agreement on the basis of Article 168 of the Treaty on European Union, which allows for a policy of coordination in the purchase of medicines at European Union level, which means a reduction in prices, coordination and therefore an improvement in the interests of citizens and of citizens' services in the purchase of vaccines but also antiviral medicines. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good measure and a measure that comes late. As agreed on 20 June 2004, the article of the treaty made it possible to activate this measure long ago. But this has very concrete consequences on the price of medicines and welcome either. Welcome be it for those health crises that have occurred in the past - in recent years we have experienced critical management by the governments of various pandemics - and of those that may come in the future, because the government now makes a lot of the banner of cyberterrorism, which is something present and unfortunately something future but, ladies and gentlemen, bioterrorism is also something present and something future. [[the Minister of the Interior a moment ago was present in the Chamber]] And the integrated health, defence and emergency policies of States will in future have to be coordinated and coordinated beyond State borders, also in the fight against bioterrorism. This seems to me to be a very good step and an initiative to which we are clearly going to lend our support. Secondly, I will talk about the international treaty to facilitate trade with Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we have discussed in this Chamber on human rights and trade, and I will repeat something I have said on other occasions: our absolute solidarity and our absolute alignment with what has already been said with regard to the opposition leader Raif Badawi. We have made a non-legislative proposal in this regard, and most Members of our parliamentary group have signed an appeal to the international community to make it clear to Saudi Arabia that we are against the violation of human rights, that our bet is on the construction of States in the line of secularism and not on the line in which religion dictates civil law, dictates the law of the forms of a State. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to apply that criterion, we apply it to all States, to all States in the Persian Gulf, to many Asian States and to many States in other parts of the world. I believe that the right thing to do in accordance with the mechanisms of international relations is to incorporate human rights elements into the bilateral agendas of relations between States, so that the reproach that must be made of any Government is that it does not incorporate human rights into the bilateral agenda of relations between States in order to express itself clearly and frontally, whether with Cuba - that policy of trying not to speak with Cuba; with Cuba we had to talk to denounce the violation of human rights - or with Saudi Arabia, which has to talk to denounce the violation of human rights. Yesterday afternoon, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs - a long debate, with the presence of the Minister - a couple of spokespersons, some of whom today have expressed criticism, expressed and appreciated positively the assistance of the King of Spain at the funerals of the King of Saudi Arabia and the efforts of the King emeritus in the commercial traffic between Spain and Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is appropriate to be clear and forceful in the bilateral dialogue on the denunciation of human rights, but at the same time to give an overall reflection on whether we restrict legal trafficking and relations between States only with those who respect human rights. In that case, unfortunately, the community would be very small and even we would be reviewed in so many ways. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sáez Jubero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of both conventions. It is a general view of this parliamentary group to support the international conventions signed by the Government, but in particular we would like to welcome both of them. The first, the Agreement on the joint acquisition of medical countermeasures - medicines, health products, goods or services -, promoted and signed by all the countries of the European Union, will fulfil an important objective, as has been pointed out, the improvement of efficiency and costs in combating serious cross-border health threats and gives competence to the European Commission for this efficiency of implementation. And with regard to the Convention with Saudi Arabia, sharing some arguments that have already been put forward, it is a convention that has been signed for the promotion and mutual protection of investments. We understand that it is perfectly compatible with a country with which we have diplomatic relations, because some of the parliamentary groups that have expressed their opposite position today should also denounce that we have diplomatic relations with other countries that do not meet the requirements for respect for human rights, as is the case with so many others with whom Spain has diplomatic relations. It is an agreement that helps us to improve the legal security framework, especially at a time when Spanish companies are also facing a major task, such as the construction of the Medina-La Meca high-speed line. This should not prevent Spain from being very demanding in the field of human rights with countries with which it signs trade agreements, such as the current one with Saudi Arabia, which maintains a firm and demanding position, especially at a time like the present one when Spain is going to hold that position of responsibility in the United Nations Security Council. Just as we value this convention positively, we denounce those deficits in democracy and human rights in countries such as Saudi Arabia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Sáez Jubero. For the People's Group, Mr Beneyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is no doubt that beatings against Mr. Raif Badawi are an absolutely reprehensible act and flagrantly violate all international standards and treaties, in particular the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition of Torture, the Council of Europe Convention, the Arab Charter on Human Rights itself, which Saudi Arabia has signed. There is absolutely no transfer at that point. It's an act of maximum cruelty, a thousand whips. Raif Badawi could not bear more than fifty and had to be transferred to the hospital in order to be cured of these wounds, and the doctor himself certified that it would be very difficult for him to continue to be subjected to this absolute and reprehensible ill-treatment. That is the case and it is undeniable. At the same time, as many speakers pointed out, it is our duty to have a critical dialogue with countries that do not comply with protection, promotion and respect for human rights. Saudi Arabia - and this mutual investment protection agreement shows this - is an increasingly important partner in trade and economic relations with Spain. We all know some of the important contracts that have been signed recently. This APRI - one of those conventions that are also being debated at this time in Europe and in the rest of the world - does what it does is to protect contracting parties, States and also investors when they invest in other States; it protects them from the point of view of expropriations, nationalisations and also covert expropriations. In short, it is a way of facilitating fair and equitable treatment. It also introduces the possibility of arbitration, an instrument that has been shown to be extremely effective. The only way to continue this commercial relationship is through such agreements. Therefore, the same has been done by the European Union, the Spanish Government on this point, as in everyone else, with enormous solidarity with its allies within the European Union and its partners in the European Union, what it is doing is taking a critical but constructive attitude. It should be borne in mind that few, but some progress in human rights, were achieved during the mandate of former King Abdullah. For example, women became part of the Shura, the governing council of Saudi Arabia; for example, it was also facilitated, thanks to Western pressure, to advance in other matters related to criminal proceedings. This is the attitude to maintain, follow-up, engagement, and at the same time critical where the actions being carried out are reprehensible from the point of view of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the great master of diplomacy who was Talleyrand said that if politics is the art of the impossible, diplomacy is the art of making the impossible possible. We must continue this dialogue with Saudi Arabia, it is a fundamental element in this very complicated geopolitical regional situation in the environment. Saudi Arabia is participating, together with other countries, in getting a more moderate version of Islam to be disseminated through the al-Azhar mosque in Egypt. There are many points at stake and with Saudi Arabia we must continue to maintain dialogue. As regards the other agreement, as has been concluded by the spokespersons, it is indeed an important step forward and also fulfils a mandate for a decision by the European Union. With these two treaties we take a step forward in our external relations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Beneyto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u16	We move on to the discussion of the entire draft organizational law on the personnel regime of the National Police. The Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum, as the President has indicated, to present to you the draft organic law of the National Police personnel regime. Allow me to refer briefly to a matter that is closely linked to the functions of the police, in fact the basic function of the police: to ensure citizen security, to protect the free and peaceful exercise of the fundamental rights and public freedoms that the Constitution recognizes, protects and guarantees to Spanish citizens and those living with us. And this is because to measure the level of security of our country in some way is also to measure the level of effectiveness of our police forces, of the various police forces that in the different territorial areas have as their mission what I have recalled. In this respect, I must recall the reduction of crime in the first three years of this legislature, namely 2012, 2013 and 2014, according to the statistical office of the European Union, Eurostat, and according to the indicators used by Eurostat for this purpose, which are homogeneous and for all the states of the Union, and therefore allow us to carry out an objective measurement. In Spain we have reduced in these three years the crime rate, which, as you know, measures criminal offences, i.e. crimes and faults per 1,000 inhabitants, by 3.6 percentage points, from 48.4 criminal offences in 2011 to 44.8 at the end of 2014. I must say, and we must all congratulate ourselves on this, that this crime rate, I insist, according to the statistical office of the European Union, Eurostat, is the lowest in the last twelve years. Moreover, and this is particularly important and relevant, it is one of the lowest in the European Union, so that Spain is the third country with the lowest crime rate in the European Union, according to Eurostat indicators, and the third country with the lowest homicide rate, also according to Eurostat indicators. As your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, all countries have their strengths and weaknesses. They will accept that it is not for me, and less so at this moment, to refer to the weaknesses that we have as a country, that we have them, as all countries have them and as is evident, but I do want to emphasize that the fact that Spain is in objective data and, as we shall see below, also in subjective perception of our fellow citizens and of those who visit us in a safe country is undoubtedly one of our strengths. And I am talking about a safe country when I am also talking about a clearly democratic country, because a democratic state of law such as Spain cannot sacrifice, and cannot sacrifice, on the altar of security the freedoms of citizens, but it also has the conviction that it does not fall into the naivety that without security we can enjoy the rights and freedoms that our legal system recognizes. And I told them that it is one of our strengths because it is projected in other areas, as your ladies and gentlemen know well. Undoubtedly, another of our strengths as a country is tourism; we are the third tourism power in the world. Recently, the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism has just given the number of tourists who visited us last year 2014; almost 65 million visitors, and you know perfectly well the wealth that for the country, in terms of gross domestic product, employment, etc., means tourism activity. Taking into account this reality, the tourism sector - not the Ministry of the Interior - and, in particular, through the survey of tourist habits, Habitur, asks those who visit us, those who choose Spain as their destination for their holidays, what are the reasons why they have chosen Spain as their tourist destination; I insist, 65 million visitors. After France and the United States, Spain is the third country in the world with the most tourists, with an incidence, in terms of national wealth, in terms of gross domestic product, of almost 11%, as your ladies and gentlemen know. The answer of these people, according to this survey - I insist, of Habitur - is that the first reason why they had chosen Spain as a tourist destination were the landscape beauties of our country; and on a scale of one to ten, they rated with remarkable high that first circumstance that had led them to choose Spain as a tourist destination to spend their holidays; 8.4 out of 10. The second reason why, according to this survey, they choose Spain as a tourist destination is security, and they also score with a remarkable high the security of Spain; 8.2 out of 10. Alongside this, I would like to make it clear that, as you know, the countries that provide the greatest number of tourists in both absolute and relative terms are democratic countries; they are countries of the European Union; they are the United Kingdom, Germany, France; that is, countries that know that because they belong to that area of freedom, justice and security, which is the European Union, they know that when they are talking about security, they speak about security in a democratic country and, as we have said before, where there is a reasonable balance between security and freedom; and it is understood that security is a legal good protected by law, but that it is at the service of freedom. What I have just commented on at the beginning of my presentation was necessary - or at least it seemed to me -, timely and convenient to show that, obviously, if that is so in objective data - the Eurostat indicators that reminded them, in the subjective perception of the foreign tourists who visit us - our fellow citizens also recognize it. The CIS barometers, which have - as you know - a very long historical statistical series over time, also confirm this subjective perception in terms of citizen security and in terms of the assessment they exercise to the security forces, which have a special responsibility to ensure citizen security and the free and peaceful exercise of the rights and freedoms of citizens. In particular, with regard to the most valued institutions, Spanish citizens in these barometers define the State Security Forces and Corpses, and specifically the National Police and the Civil Guard, as the most valued institutions. Therefore, all the indicators, in subjective perception, objective indicators, evaluation of those who visit us, evaluation of the Spaniards, etc., show and confirm what I have just told them. To that high security to which I have referred contributes the civic attitude of our fellow citizens. This is obvious and it would be unfair not to recognize it; but it is also evident that it contributes to this the professionalism and effectiveness of the security forces entrusted with this responsibility. Today it is up to me here to present and refer in a very special way, as is evident, to one of the two State Security Bodies - the other is the Civil Guard, as you know - which is entrusted with this task in a special way, the National Police Corps, the National Police, and to present the draft organizational law on its personnel regime. I should like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill that I am presenting is based on the constitutional mandate of Article 104.2 of the 1978 Constitution, which literally states that "an organic law will determine the functions, basic principles of action and statutes of the Security Forces and Bodies". This is the literal quote - as you know - of Article 104.2 of our Constitution, which obliges us, which mandates us to present the bill that I am currently defending and presenting from the rostrum. In this regard, I believe that it is also very timely and necessary to recall that the current Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March of the Security Forces and Bodies was limited to establishing regulations for these very general purposes and subsequently, with the exception of the regulation of specific aspects such as the second activity in Law 26/1994 or the disciplinary regime contained in the Organic Law 4/2010 adopted by broad consensus in the past legislature, the status and regime of police personnel has been collected in regulations. On the other hand, it also makes sense to repeal pre-constitutional rules such as the Organic Regulations of the Government Police, approved by Decree 2038/1975, which continued to be applied subsidiaryly in the face of the existing legislative vacuum; i.e. scattered rules, rules of different normative hierarchy, pre-constitutional rules, not unconstitutional but rather pre-constitutional ones, which were applied subsidiaryly. In short, it was necessary to have adequate legal certainty in this area - we are talking about the personnel regime - and consequently the dispersion of regulations and at the same time - and I would like to emphasize this, ladies and gentlemen - to bring about the necessary adaptation to the resulting changes in this area, the staff regime, the approval and entry into force of the basic Staff Regulations by Law 7/2007. I believe that briefly all the reasons I have commented to you justify fully that we are now presenting this bill. Therefore, I dare say that this is an initiative of great importance to the police, because it gives the body a law of personnel after almost thirty years of the creation of the National Police Corps by unification of the two pre-existing bodies at that time: the Superior Police Corps and the National Police, which gave rise by merger, by integration into that Organic Law 2/1986 of the National Police Corps. This is a law, which we are presenting, very necessary for the members of the National Police Corps, that is, for the National Police, and very positive for the citizens as a whole. The previous legislature has already tried to regulate this status by means of a draft organic law on rights and duties and a draft law on staff rules which were referred to this House, to the Congress of Deputies, but both initiatives - I would like to remind you of this - have lapsed since the end of the legislature. On this occasion, having considered everything in a single text, personal and rights and duties, this one - which I am presenting - has mandatory organic rank, at least partially, in those matters that obviously require reference to rights and duties, on the one hand, or regulating aspects that have to do with the union representation of the members of the police, demands by constitutional mandate this rank, rank of organic law. Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to the more detailed analysis that I will point out below, I would like to point out that with this draft law we intend to guarantee - as I said to you - with greater precision and legal certainty the rights and duties of the police, which in turn allows them, the police, to better guarantee the public rights and freedoms of citizens and their security, which is the mandate entrusted to them by the Constitution. With this bill we aim to improve the legal and social protection of police officers, which, in addition to being first and foremost a demand for justice, will result in a more effective police force, which will thus clearly reflect the support and recognition of the service it provides for the guarantee of public security. And, thirdly but not least, with this bill, we intend to have, if possible, a better-formed, closer and more open police force to the society to which it serves. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of its content the text of the draft consists of 96 articles, is divided into a preliminary title and thirteen additional titles, seven additional provisions, seven transitional provisions, one derogatory provision and five final provisions. I am grateful to you to review them because, no doubt, you all know them and are reflected in the December 5th Bulletin of Congress in which this bill is already published. As for the main developments of the many included in the project, I would like to highlight some of them. For example, I told them at the beginning of my presentation that this law extends and better guarantees the rights of members of the National Police and thus makes a detailed account of individual and collective rights, which is truly a remarkable novelty. As far as individual rights are concerned, they constitute a novelty in their personnel regime, which for the first time is carried out under the constitutional relevance of the legal assets to which they relate. The draft law establishes a comprehensive catalogue of individual and collective rights in the areas of reconciliation of personal, family and work life; effective equal treatment and opportunities; rights to leave, leave and leave; effective and real equality between men and women; the right to adapt their functions to psychophysical conditions; continuing training; the system of incompatibility with other civil servants; and special protection - and this seems to me to be particularly important - for victims of gender-based violence, we are usually talking about women police officers in this case. These, among others, many individual rights that I have already told you, are reflected in a special and detailed way in this bill. With regard to duties, a list of duties is made, among which I can highlight the duty entrusted to the police to exercise their duties, functions or positions with loyalty and impartiality, serving as provided for in the Constitution objectively to the general interests; obeying and executing orders received from the authorities or commands of those who depend on them, provided that they do not constitute a criminal offence or are manifestly contrary to the legal order; maintaining professional secrecy in relation to matters they know on the basis of their duties; informing citizens of matters that have the right to know or facilitate the exercise of their rights and the fulfilment of their obligations to those same citizens. These are among many other duties that are set out in a comprehensive manner in the bill. A reference is also made to the basic principles of the functioning of the existing law on security forces and bodies as a code of conduct. In this regard, with regard to the code of conduct, already provided for in the Law on Security Forces and Bodies, Law 2/1986 of 13 March, as you know, I must refer to the existing code of ethics of the National Police Corps, which was adopted by a decision of the Directorate-General of 30 April 2013 and whose aim is to respect and defend human dignity and to promote the exercise of the police function from the highest professional integrity. To this end, I would like to recall - I also think it is relevant - that this code of ethics, which has been in force since April 2013, has been inspired by the code of conduct for law enforcement officials drawn up by the United Nations in 1979, the Council of Europe Police Declaration in 1979 and the Council of Europe's 2001 European Code of Police Ethics. It seems to me that they are references to institutions and norms emanating from them of sufficient solvency so that we can see the basis on which this code of ethics that the National Police has been in force since 30 April 2013 and which is clearly stuck with the code of conduct provided for in the Organic Law on Security Forces and Bodies of 1986. As regards continuing vocational training and specialization, it is obviously one of the priority elements in the police career and also includes the provision of high-level vocational training courses for members of the police. This training constitutes - and is thus reflected in the draft law - an individual right of the police, but at the same time also a duty of the police precisely to keep the training and professional qualification of these police officers up to date on a permanent basis. On the other hand, and with reference to the basic statute of the public employee and its connection with the material content of this bill, I must say that all scales of the National Police will be integrated for all purposes into the classification groups of the basic statute of the public employee. In this way - and this is not a minor issue - the dysfunctions generated by the duality between economic and administrative effects that exist so far will be eliminated. It also establishes the requirement for the qualifications required by Law 7/2007, the basic statute of the public employee, with reference to the entry into the respective classification groups in which the different scales and categories are framed. It is also important to note that the bill determines more clearly the role of both representative and non-representative organizations, while at the same time assigning new functions to the Police Council. Thus, the rule, the draft law, accentuates the relevance of the Police Council - as its lords know, the collegiate body of participation with equal composition of the Administration and the representatives of the members of the National Police - in which they compete as electors and optional and technical eligible by conferring on that body - the Police Council - new functions relating to the professional status of the latter. These powers include participation in the determination of the criteria according to which it is to be established - and this is very important for the professional life and family life of the agents - the territorial scope in which the determination of the residence of the police officers is authorized or the establishment of the general criteria and mechanisms for the evaluation of performance. Reference is also made to the regime for the representation and participation of police officers in the field of occupational risk prevention, which was a legitimate claim of professional police unions. Through this bill, ladies and gentlemen - and this is also very relevant to the police function - a unique protection is provided for the police precisely because of their special function. Thus, together with the defence and legal assistance by the State, the recruitment of a civil liability insurance or other financial guarantee is incorporated in order to cover any compensation and bail that may arise from the performance of their duties or on the occasion of the performance of their duties. In the area of social protection, the obligation for the Administration to conclude an accident insurance for cases of death or permanent incapacity wholly or partially incurred in the course of service or on the occasion of service is also legalized. By saying that the obligation is legalized, I want to make it clear that what we are proposing is that from now on it is no longer a power of the Administration, which has been doing so lately, but that from now on it will be a legal mandate and, therefore, it will be a legal obligation to conclude this accident insurance for the cases to which I referred. The bill also regulates a regime of incompatibilities consistent with the nature of the police function. Another novelty that I would like to highlight in this presentation is that the qualifications required for admission to the police are raised: baccalaureate for the basic scale, university degree for the executive, as well as the level required in each case for promotion. This adapts the training requirements of the police for entry into the body to the new qualifications resulting from the implementation of the Bologna Plan and to the national education system. With regard to the modalities of entry, they continue to be articulated in a general manner through the system of free opposition and in accordance with the constitutional principles of equality, merit and capacity, as well as those of publicity of calls, transparency, impartiality and professionalism of the selection bodies. The bill enhances internal promotion by unifying promotion systems and opening up to all categories of police the dual form of promotion: on the one hand, by selective antiquity, or by competition-opposition, also in situations other than active service. In this regard, I must stress that promotion systems are unified. For example, the Commissioner may be appointed by competition-opposition to the Principal Commissioner category and the Police by selective seniority to the Officer category. The so-called second activity is maintained, and all expectations of law are respected, recognized and guaranteed, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is very important from the point of view of the police personnel regime. In order to achieve greater levels of legal certainty, the draft law regulates the whole regime of this situation of second administrative activity, maintaining a regime similar to the current one, so that the causes for moving to this situation will be the same, either because of insufficient psychophysical attitudes - I would like to emphasize in a special way that, if it happens in an act of service, one hundred per cent of the salaries of the police will be received - or at their own request for having reached a certain age, depending on the scale of membership. I repeat, in the case of insufficient psychophysical attitudes, with that singularity to which I have referred, when that loss of psychophysical attitudes is the result of an act of service. I told them earlier that there is an express recognition of the protection afforded to female police officers who are victims of gender-based violence through the waiver for this specific reason, in addition to recognizing the right to geographical mobility to another position of similar characteristics, without necessarily having to be vacant. With regard to residence, which I have mentioned to you earlier, police officers will be able to live from the entry into force of this law, if necessary, in a home other than that of their staff, which is the situation which, as you know, currently exists. Under the current system, I insist, residence is required in the municipal term in which the police officer is destined. The new rule, this draft law, seeks to strike a balance between the freedom of choice of the police's home and the demands arising from the fundamental and delicate mission that the Constitution and the legal order entrust to the State Security Forces and Corpses, which, without prejudice as we are talking about the National Police being a civilian body, with professional unions representing the defence of their legitimate interests, the law, as you know, defines the police as an armed civilian institute and, therefore, being civil officials it is no less relevant to say from this rostrum that they are obviously not civil officials of the State General Administration, because they belong, I repeat, to an armed and uniformed institute, except in cases where the police function permits or demands it. The fact that it is an armed institute of a civilian nature clearly differentiates them from other civil servants, as is evident. Therefore, this balance to which I refer and which the draft law provides for between the freedom of choice of domicile and the requirements derived from it, which are specific and special for a body such as that of the National Police which, without prejudice to its civil nature, I insist, does not cease to be an armed institute and on a few occasions usually uniformed. In order to achieve this necessary balance, a reference is made to the territorial scope to be determined in respect of the staff of destination, which is determined on the basis of objective criteria and, which is very important, with the participation of professional police unions for that purpose. I shall now turn to something also relevant, ladies and gentlemen, which contains this bill, which is known as the gateway; that is, the possibility of the entry into the National Police of career officials of other security forces in Spain. The entrance will be made in the scale and category equivalent to the one they hold in their body of origin, and I am referring to all the police forces: local, autonomous and, although the law does not express it explicitly, already advance them as well from the State. If it is not clear in the draft law, we are prepared in the parliamentary procedure, if any, after this whole debate, by means of amendments to clarify this point. All existing police forces or all members of the existing local, autonomous and State security forces may enter the National Police, under the logical conditions envisaged. Thus, the bill determines that the entry in their case will be made in the scale and category equivalent to those they hold in their corps of origin, while it is determined that the conditions for such entry must be determined by regulation and with the participation of professional unions representing the police. It will also be necessary for this eventual income to possess the qualifications required for access to each scale and to comply, as it cannot otherwise be, with the general requirements required by this draft law, in particular article 26, in order to be able to access the National Police. With this we aim to obtain better management, a more efficient management of the human resources available in the field of public security in our country, while certainly strengthening the position of the National Police as a civilian reference security body. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft refers to the name National Police. This issue is being dealt with by the parliamentary groups which have tabled amendments of all or of return and I would like to make it clear that what is intended - I will specify it at the corresponding turn of reply or at least I will try - is that the official terminology agrees with that which is already largely rooted among the citizens. It is clear that the members of the National Police, the national police, integrate and form the National Police Corps, but I insist that if it is not sufficiently clear - it seems that not in the opinion of some parliamentary groups - in the draft law, if it is necessary in the parliamentary process with the People's Group and in the negotiations between the groups we are prepared to include those amendments that clarify what I have just commented, so that the references made in the current legislation to the National Police Corps, once this draft law has been adopted and converted into law, would also refer to the National Police. It is, in short - if I may quote - a question of making normal in law what is normal at street level, that is, people understand when talking about the National Police Corps that we are referring to the National Police, but precisely because of the history of the body there was no legal rule that made express reference to what we are commenting on. On the contrary, there was a period of transition between the Police Act, known as the Martin Villa Act, Act 55/1978, and the State Security Forces and Bodies Act, in which the National Police existed. Precisely, the existence during that eight- or seven-and-a-half-year period of the specific designation for a police force as National Police, which remained with the Higher Police Corps and, in turn, through the Police Act, was the successors, with the consequent reforms, of course, of what at the time of the Francoism was the General Police Corps and the Armed Police, is what has motivated it to be necessary to make it legally clear that the National Police is not the National Police that existed from the Police Act of 1978 to the Law on State Security Forces and Bodies, but is the one that with the rights, duties and personnel regime is specified in this draft law that I am submitting. I insist that if there is any doubt - it seems that there is one in relation to the analysis of the amendments as a whole - we are prepared, of course - this should not be a reason for disagreement because I am sure that we agree in substance - that the corresponding amendments should be made in the parliamentary procedure which clarify and leave no room for confusion as to what I am commenting on. In another order of things - and finally, Mr President - I must say, because it is important for this type of institution, that the bill provides for the possibility of honorary promotions, as well as that of granting the distinction of an honorary official of the National Police to those who request it at the time of retirement. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am bringing to this House a bill which, for the first time in the nearly three decades since the unification of the two pre-existing bodies - the Superior Police and National Police - provides the police with a genuine staff regime in accordance with the mandate of Article 104.2 of the Constitution, which, on the other hand, is appropriate, as it cannot otherwise be, to the current needs, with better regulation of their rights and duties, and ensuring a better and more comprehensive service for the citizens to whom the police ultimately serve. I am confident that, during the parliamentary process, if this whole debate is overtaken, the text can be enriched by the contributions of the parliamentary groups, with whom I am now announcing our readiness to reach agreements in this regard, also in specific aspects as I have mentioned, and counting on how evident - we have already spoken about it, as it could not be otherwise - with the full support and the full agreement of the People's Parliamentary Group that gives support to the Government. Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, for the introduction of the law. Two amendments to the full refund have been tabled to this draft, as the Minister mentioned. For the defence of the one presented by the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'll start with where you're done. It has offered the House groups the opportunity to agree on the amendments, to improve the legal text, and on the part of my parliamentary group - it is due to the parliamentary courtesy - we recognize this, but let me say that, given the experience we have throughout this parliamentary term by the People's Party Government, let us very much question the real, practical and final will that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group tend to accept substantial amendments to the bills that the Government is bringing to this House, and to experience we are referring; we are not making a value trial or prejudice, but we are referring to experience. [[The lady]] My group, Mr Minister, has tabled an amendment to the whole of this legal text, because in short it seems to us a retrograde text - it is almost a return to the past - and it affects issues that have more to do with militarisation than with a police force of the twenty-first century. You have just commented on it in your speech and even put it as a possible modification or clarification, we do not know very well, but the name change is an element that constitutes a sample button from where this law goes. We return to the denomination that the now National Police Corps had in the law of before 1986 and even goes to a currency exchange of the body that is not coming - it affects as I say in the military character or remilitarization in which it has also gotten into the Civil Guard - and it even has a cost that we ignore and do not share. This bill, Minister, for my parliamentary group does not sufficiently recognize the rights of members of the National Police Corps. It does not even take advantage of the experience in this House in the Sixth Legislature with a specific subcommittee that was created to talk about the police model, which resulted in parliamentary groups working extensively and presenting their proposals on various police models. Our group has in particular put forward a different proposal - you know it very well because we have moved it from this rostrum and from the Committee on the Interior too. It is not our police model that the Spanish State currently has, and that over many years has been sharing successive governments of different signs, and this bill has an impact on a police model that, as I say, we do not share. It is a police model that, compared to other countries in our environment, is very numerous, it is even expensive, despite the contradiction that the average wages of police and civilian guards are low, and also different in one body and another, and simply because it affects this police model that our parliamentary group does not share would already be a sufficient reason to submit an amendment to the whole. But it also has other characteristics that not only to us, but to the police's own trade union centres - and which have already shown - encourage us to present this amendment in its entirety. Deep in inefficiencies and imbalances, it maintains an impulse to the competitiveness between bodies, a competitiveness that you, Minister, have defended in this House on various occasions and that can lead when not to dangerous episodes such as the confrontation between one body and another, yes to the spurt experienced a few days ago that the Civil Guard is given the order to control what members of the National Police Corps do at the border. That just jumped into the media. It adds this legal text in a structure and in some competences that are illogical between the two bodies. It doesn't even coordinate the same databases. Mr Minister, my group shares the view that it is necessary to reform and make a legal text to repeal certain regulations that have already become old and that come even from pre-constitutional times. This issue is still pending in two legislatures. In the previous legislature, by expiry, the previous bill went on to a better life. However, we are now seeing ourselves with a certain amount of care, like other texts coming from your department, in view of the need to see a bill that my group sees too many problems. Basic issues such as unnecessary obviating the principle of legality, placing the principle of hierarchy above practically, and that my parliamentary group, like other trade union centres, cannot share. There is an indefinacy and a lack of definition of the individual rights of members of the National Police Corps. I'll give you two examples. It does not establish something as basic as that the limitation of these rights can only be dictated under rules with a law rank, or something as simple as guaranteeing the set schedule. There are also limitations on collective rights, discrimination against other police officers, which is maintained in this text. Members of the National Police Corps are not free to join any trade union, but have to join specific trade unions. It also restricts the right to collective bargaining, which cannot be done like the rest of the workers and which in the end is prevented from being able to rely on the obligation of an award so that both parties, when there is a collective conflict, are obliged to comply with something that minimally satisfies the workers' demands. Nor are channels established, nor are there any minimum obligation to allow trade union centres to participate even as observers in selection and promotion processes. Nor on the issue of duties that govern this legal text do we understand that there is a satisfactory overall treatment. We see that there are failures such as not assigning detailed tasks with a clear reference to the post, with which there are still major deficits, and something as basic as that orders will be given in writing when requested by the recipient. The Minister also commented in his speech that the issue of residence outside the municipality where you work is being changed, but that the compulsory residence in a given area is still being maintained. For us that remains a feature that comes from military-type standards, and that has no reason to be at a time when the means of transport, the need for family reconciliation or the difficulty itself in finding affordable housing in a specific area make it necessary for any police to buy housing wherever they can, and not depending on where they have their place of work. It is therefore an issue that, from our point of view, should be changed, and that we will of course amend in the course of the process of this bill. It omits, for example, the scale of optionals and technicians which is something we share with the trade unions because it is something basic to be able to defend the specificities of their jobs; or something as basic and certainly indicative as it is to omit the nomenclature of scales in women; I hope that at least these issues can be resolved in the course of amendments in the Commission. It does not require that the qualifications required for certain posts are directly related to the specialty to be developed thereafter. The staff register in our view should specifically delineate those issues that must be protected as regards the members of the National Police Corps in the staff register of the General Administration of the State, because it has its specific specificities and problems. And it does not specify something as basic - and it has given rise to trade union demands on it - as the courses for the management of weapons; we understand that there should be minimum mandatory and an increase in some sections to the few and poor courses that are currently being held for the management of weapons, since of an armed institute we are talking, as the minister said in his intervention. For my group it is not good, it is not positive - we already said in the Civil Guard Staff Law - that various income to the body be maintained. Entry on the executive scale is maintained in addition to the basic one, rather than only the basic one which would be what my parliamentary group would defend. On the question of training, which is also addressed in the draft law, there are, from our point of view, certain shortcomings in the guarantee of training: it decreases consideration of the approval of police studies in the general system of studies, even something that the trade union centres have been demanding as regards the assessment of the courses given by the trade union centres with respect to others that can be given; or we will ensure - and we will amend this in the draft law - that all permanent training will take place at work, which is something in a few words, but which does not contain the legal text; or the commitment that permanent training should be linked to the permanence in the body at least three years, which is basic and which has a certain controversy, but my group shares that in certain cases, and especially when the retirement age comes, neither has to imply a limitation on the training rights of the police themselves which will not remain in force for more than three years. This is an issue that we should review in the way of the law, and in this regard we will be tabling amendments. We understand that - and the text does not - greater collaboration should be established between the training centres of the various State Security Forces and Bodies, specifically with the Civil Guard. There are very specific issues that my group does not share. The establishment of the category of Commissioner-General is not considered appropriate, it seems to us more like an honorary and pecuniary remuneration for the highest officials, and of course it seems to my parliamentary group to be a characteristic that is not advisable in the draft law. There are certain issues that are specific and that are changing, but we believe that they would need to be amended in the Commission's proceedings at least if, as is foreseeable, the House approves the admission to the Commission's proceedings. Because, for example, when it comes to setting psychotechnical conditions there was a medical court before and now it will be enough with a report from the health service, which we do not think guarantees it enough. Fundamental and basic issues that for us do not improve the functioning of the National Police Corps: it maintains the excessive weight of the posts of free designation. For my parliamentary group, the use and sometimes abuse of free designation in the National Police Corps should be limited. It maintains the system of commission of services to provide excessive jobs, and in this way it is not guaranteed that the legal criteria of equality, merit, capacity, publicity and seniority are sufficiently safeguarded. It also marks an excessive period of one and a half years for the convocation of the places which are provided in commission of services. We don't think it's right. Minister, you have also spoken about the catwalk, you do not know that it is a controversial fact in the National Police Corps itself. Important trade union centers reject the existence of this direct platform between other police officers and the National Police because from their point of view and ours can end up damaging the police career itself within the body. A basic issue parallel to the day-to-day National Police Corps is the objective assessment system. A system of objective evaluation that is set and maintained leads to the ultimate objective of police work being the number of arrests or the number of identifications, and that is not the best thing from our point of view, Minister. The objective of the National Police Corps and the State Security Forces and Bodies is set out in article 104 of the Constitution, and you mentioned it at the beginning of your intervention, is the protection and defence of the rights and freedoms of citizens enshrined in the Magna Charter itself. The police must be at the service of freedoms, at the service of the defence of freedoms and the protection of freedoms, and not compelled to carry out a certain number of arrests or a certain number of identifications or a certain number of objectives set by the specific command, which in the end is not what the legislation marks. My parliamentary group does not share this and it does not seem to us the best way to have a citizens' security capable of developing constitutional rights and freedoms in complete tranquillity. In short, Minister, for my parliamentary group it is not the right text, it requires a number of very important amendments which we are of course going to move in various partial amendments, but which has led us to propose this amendment to return the text to the Government because it seems to us to be a regressive text, a text which limits the rights of the members of the National Police Corps, and which ultimately consolidates a police model which my parliamentary group has not shared, does not share, and which hopes that in the future it will be possible to change in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we agree that the National Police Corps needs a personnel law that comes to regulate in a single rule issues such as access to the body, professional career, the different administrative situations that police and police pass through, and a long one, etc. Then one wonders why my group is presenting this amendment in its entirety, and three are basically the reasons, Minister. The first, because my group - as you mentioned earlier this morning - has defined and drafted its personnel law for the National Police Corps, and it is none other than the one that brought this House into the previous legislature; a text that in our view - as may be evident - was better than the one that has presented to us today and that had more support and consensus than the text that you have presented to us today. The second, we reject the draft on a substantive point which I will detail later. And the third, for a matter of form, Minister, and I explain. They abandon the line followed in our order to regulate separately the law of personnel of matters that collect and regulate the rights and duties of certain collectives, in this case the National Police Corps, and the consequence of uniting in a single rule two differentiated areas and that they would deserve by themselves a law of their own is that we will raise to the rank of organic law a text not only for the part of the rights and duties of members of the National Police Corps, but the whole text, even those issues that are going to be changing, Minister, issues that are going to be subject as I say to that more rigid and less flexible organic law for areas that can undoubtedly be changing. Another thing, Minister, is that that was the real intention: to block possible changes in the future. We also reject - as I said - this project on a fundamental point, because what it presents to us reflects a police model and a model of citizen security that is totally opposed to the model that socialists have. Our bet is public security; yours is private security. It serves as an example of the Private Security Act recently passed in this Parliament, which places public security and private security at the same level. A law on private security, Mr Fernández, which breaks with the concept of citizen security as a public service; a law that you are also doing is that there are fewer and fewer police officers, because there are thousands of police and civilian guards lost each year, and yet there is more and more business for private security companies at the expense of the space that was covering public security. For you, security is not a right, Minister, for you, security is a possibility of business, they fulfil one of their maximums: that everyone has the services that can be paid, the education that can be paid, the health that can be paid, in this case also the security that can be paid. [[Applauds]] This law on private security does the National Police Corps little good. Minister, I can't help but tell you that from my group we are seriously concerned about how the Citizens' Security Act is going to damage, and very much, the image of our police officers and our police officers. With the Law on Citizen Security you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, have subverted the role of our State Security Forces and Bodies, which will become controllers of the population instead of performing their fundamental role, their constitutional function, which is nothing other than to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms and to guarantee citizen security. Therefore, Minister, we ask you not to turn the National Police Corps into the enforcer arm of your fear law, not to turn the National Police Corps into the gag that silences people's protest against the measures of your government. [[Applauds]] The police are not to silence the citizenry, but to protect it. The police are not proposing sanctions of EUR 600 to pensioners who are peacefully protesting at a branch in Bankia, because they have scammed them with the preferents. The time to run in front of the grey has passed, as much as you strive with your measures to take us to a Spain in black and white. So it is, Mr Fernández, that this law of personnel that you present to us wants to recover the name that the police had in 1978 - I had not even been born - and they want to take us to that name, to the name of the National Police, the name that the brown police that even civilianly ruled internally by military regulations, and that had commands coming from the army. Even the name they want to take to the past. By the way, have they calculated the cost of this measure? Because the economic impact assessment does not mention or quantify how much it will cost to change the labels, the legends, the badges, the uniforms, the hats, the professional cards or the badges of 68,000 people. What's the cost going to be? And is it necessary? Does this change of name mean an improvement in the service of the National Police Corps? Does it improve the working conditions of the police and the police? Does it improve your professionalism? Is citizen security and the protection of the free exercise of rights improved with this name change? No, Minister. None of that improves with this name change, all this does is evoke the past, that's all. You say it is to put the name that is normally used on the street. But, Minister, I will give an example, we also call the Navarra Foral Community Navarra, and that is not why we intend to change its official name, which is the Navarra Foral Community. Or when someone talks about Social Security says all their name, National Social Security Institute? No, Minister. In addition, what you propose is a cost at this time when there is no money to pull out more police stations, but there is to change plates and badges. Minister, it doesn't make any sense. Let's talk about this. There's no reason to be, there's no improvement in the National Police Corps. So let's put it back and not do something that doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, there are issues, Mr Fernández, which need to be changed to improve this law. For example, with regard to training. It is surprising that there is little content in the project's explanatory statement to training, a subject on which there is no progress, especially if we compare it with the text that the Socialist Government brought in 2011, because there is no progress in the integration of the teaching system of the National Police Corps, of this integration into the Spanish educational system. I could give you many more examples of issues that we believe need to be changed to improve this law, but I am convinced that in the parliamentary process we will be able to reach agreements for those improvements. There are other issues that we think are important and that we miss in this project. We miss, for example, the university training centre of the National Police Corps, which does not appear. We believe that the law expressly requires the establishment of this centre, a centre to which the Directorate-General of Police has also committed on several occasions, but which is not included in the text of the draft, and we believe that it needs to be included in order to ensure that it is implemented. We also miss, Minister, improvements in trade union rights such as collective bargaining or greater access to information. Nor does the text offer avenues for resolving cases of collective conflict. But, Mr Fernández, what is most scandalous to us is to see how this bill completely forgets the Equality Act, despite its proclamation as an informative principle in Article 3. The project ignores the obligation to introduce a non-sexist language in the administrative sphere, to the extent that the reference made in the Socialist text of 2011 said that women police officers with certain categories would be called commissioners, inspectors, subinspectors, but curiously in this text disappears, not to mention that they have not corrected that sexist language that appears throughout the project. [[Applauds]] Nor does it include a single measure that seeks or strives to achieve a balanced presence of men and women in appointments or appointments of positions of responsibility. They forget so much about women who have recently bought men's bulletproof vests. They have not realized that women are also in the National Police Corps, and they have had to leave the three majority unions to ask him to buy vests that fit the female physiognomy. Look at the extent to which women are forgotten, Minister. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Fernández, I was telling you that there were issues to be improved, issues that we missed, I highlighted some, but there are also issues that we strongly oppose. This is the case with the creation of that category which you have called Commissioner-General. All police unions are opposed, from the SPP to the SUP, and that alone would be sufficient reason for them to consider eliminating this measure. This proposal ignores the fact that the names of Deputy Director, Deputy Director-General, Commissioner-General and Head of Division correspond to jobs, as are senior judges, provincial, local and district commissioners. In addition, each job has a level, 28, 26, which is being consolidated according to the time the job is being done in that position, as is the case throughout the Public Service, also in the National Police Corps. That is why, Minister, it is so illogical what you are proposing, to create this category of Commissioner-General, that we could easily find ourselves with dozens of Commissioner-Generals in a matter of a few years. Imagine, Minister, that for an eight-year period there are various governments with different ministers; that each minister appoints his or her Director-General for the Police and that he or she, in turn, appoints his or her Board of Government by ceasing the previous one. How many Commissioners-General could we meet, Minister? Tens; Commissioners-General who, once they had ceased these posts on the Board of Governors, would retain the consideration and rank of Commissioner-General but with no function, Minister, because the law does not assign them any function. Moreover, once they have ceased, when they return to their post they will be above the provincial commissioners, but without functions. What functions will these Commissioners-General, once they have ceased, be given when they return to their post and have to be above the Commissioner-in-Office? If it doesn't make any sense, Minister! No sense. Not to mention this is a finger designation. What does the minister do among the provincial commissioners? Mr Fernández, let's raise this again; it doesn't make any sense. This does not improve the structure of the National Police Corps. Quite the contrary; it may present serious organizational inconsistencies. The unions are asking for it; the parties are asking for it. Let's talk about this again, Minister, which is not good for the National Police Corps. Finally, the fourth additional provision; the entry into the National Police Corps of officers of the police forces of the autonomous communities or local corporations. Mr Fernández, this is an extravagant measure; so extravagant that they have not even justified it in the explanatory statement, because it has no justification whatsoever. Mr Fernández, there is no reason, not even the reason for that particular battle you have against Catalan independence. It's just that there's no reason for this. I'm going to put a case to you to see how disregarded this provision and this measure, as I say, allows local or autonomous police to enter the National Police Corps and to do so, as you specified, in the scale and category equivalent to that they have in their preferred corps. Do you want to tell me, Mr Fernández, what equivalence do we give to the operational chief of the local police of my people, of Bailen, who occupies the second place in the structure of the local police chief of my people? What equivalence do we give you, Commissioner, Chief Inspector, Inspector? Moreover, have you explained this measure to the tens, hundreds, of police officers who are studying today, who have been studying for years, to be inspectors or commissioners? Are you going to explain to them that, for the sake of the unity of Spain and against independence, you will have to compete and dispute the position to which you aspire with a local police officer or an autonomous police officer? I'm done, Madam President. Minister, we are at the moment of negotiation, of talking, of consensus. We agree on a fundamental point, and it is the need for this law; the need for the National Police Corps to have a law, a single rule, which regulates the different situations that occur in it; but not this text, which is much better. My group offers itself, as has been said many times with other legislative texts, to sit down, talk, dialogue and try to make the best law possible. For many years, decades, the National Police Corps has been waiting for this law. Let us not lose the opportunity that members of the National Police Corps deserve to make a good staff law. My group is going to work on it. We will present the amendments that we are prepared to negotiate and agree on. Minister, I hope that the attitude of your Government and your group is the same. For our part, it won't stay. We can't miss this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Mr Fernández Díaz, Minister for the Interior, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum not only for reasons of parliamentary courtesy, I think I am obliged, but also for respect for the amendments to the whole of which requires that those who have submitted the bill respond to those who have taken the effort - I am not saying that others have not - to submit a full amendment with arguments which, in their view, fully justify that the bill be withdrawn from the House and returned to the Government. I begin by telling Mr Sixto - and understand me, because it is my will, in the good sense - that it is totally predictable, which means that it is coherent. I know perfectly well your radical discrepancy with the police model that exists in our country, and that in all the laws that have to do with the police or with the security has been repeating it. It is in its legitimate right, just as the Government is in its legitimate right to say that we have a discrepancy, which we disagree with in the police model. In 1986, Organic Law 2/1986 on State Security Forces and Bodies developed the provisions of article 104 of the Constitution for this purpose, and established the National Police and Civil Guard Corps as State Security Forces and Bodies. On the National Police Corps, Law 2/1986 on State Security Forces and Bodies, as you know, defines it as an armed institute of a civilian nature; on the Civil Guard, it is defined as an armed institute of a military nature. And you disagree with that police model - I insist that it is in your right - but it is the police model that established not a government of the People's Party but a government of the Socialist Party. The People's Party and the Government of the People's Party share this model with the Socialist Party, and it is important that the two parties that have ruled since then in Spain, the two main political parties in Spain, at the moment we share something as important for our country as the police model. I also have to say that Spain is no exception, it is not a rare opinion in the police world. You know that there are various police models but that coexist in a police model a civilian police body with a gendarmerie body is something that is quite generalized. I do not think you can doubt that France, for example, is a democratic country, and France has the civilian police and the Gendarmerie which has a military nature. In Italy, they have the police and the Carabinieri, which have a military nature. In Portugal - I'm talking to you, look, from nearby countries - they have the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard of a military nature. In Holland, and I could go on. And if we go to America, to Ibero-America you also have police models in which civilian police bodies coexist, coexist and complement each other, as is the case with Spain with the National Police, and gendarmical bodies of military nature, as is the case with Spain with the Civil Guard. Look at what I told you at a time Portugal, France, Italy, Holland, and could follow. We're not, Your Honor, a rare ad. I repeat, the discrepancy is legitimate but think that we are not something extraordinary in the police world, at all. Moreover, I dare say otherwise, we are rather a referent, the Spanish police model rather tends to be copied than otherwise, of course in the experience that I have, that some I already start to have. Rather, there is an interest in knowing our police model and the nature of our police forces, which are integral police absolutely, rather than the opposite. In the world, comprehensive police forces, such as the National Police or the Civil Guard or autonomous police officers who are also integral police officers, are not widespread, but it should be made clear that integral police is one thing and that being exclusive or exclusive police is another. Because the National Police is an integral police force, the Civil Guard is an integral body and they are not exclusive or exclusive because they both exist, being state security forces. Why do I say they're integral police? Because there are not enough police forces, even in the countries of our environment, that have the characteristic of being an integral police force, of having information, of being bodies in charge of citizen security, of scientific police, of judicial police. There are not many bodies, quite the contrary, there are very few police bodies that, as in the case of the State Security Corps in Spain, have that integral police characteristic absolutely. In the case of the National Police, as you know, the General Information Commissioner, the General Citizen Security Commissioner, the General Scientific Police Commissioner, the General Judicial Police Commissioner, not to mention others that refer to specific functions of the National Police such as documentation, irregular immigration, etc. That is a singularity of our police model, which tends to imitate it and which has much to do with the fact that, as I have reported at the beginning of my presentation, one of the strengths of Spain is that it is perceived as a safe country, one of the safest countries in the European Union, which is the same as saying that one of the safest countries in the world; bearing in mind, moreover - this is very important - that when we talk about the European Union we talk about an area of freedom, justice and security, therefore, of a place where freedom is not sacrificed on the altar of security, but that we are trying to find - as it cannot otherwise be in a democracy - a balance between security and freedom, from the conviction that they are the two sides of the same coin: that security is not understood unless it is at the service of freedom, but also that, achieved that balance, more security must necessarily represent more freedom. Therefore, let it be clear that I respect your discrepancy but bear in mind that Spain is not a rare opinion, but quite the contrary and is a reference model. I say, Mr Sixto, I repeat, with all affection, if I may, but with all clarity. It's a reference model, make it clear. The information produced, as you know, becomes intelligence. In the interior, the General Information Commissioner in the National Police or the Civil Guard has information and, in addition, operational capacity. That, in the fight against terrorism, for example, is extraordinarily important and unique to us in other countries. That has allowed, among other things, - I say it so clearly - to have policely defeated ETA. I'm telling you so clearly. Keep it in mind. That is why other countries tend to imitate us and are changing their police models. They are asking us - although they will then copy or make their own what seems most appropriate - but our Spanish police model is a reference model. Make it clear and I'll leave it to you, if I may, for good, Mr. Sixto. He has also said in that context that he is a retrograde model, and returns to militarization. With what I have said before, that accusation is implicitly rebutted, which, with all due respect, seems to me to be unsubstantiated. Retrograde at all, quite the opposite. We have had to wait decades for, I insist, an explicit organic law - partly to that I will now refer, replying to Mr Sicilia, spokesman for the Socialist Group today in relation to this bill - so that the mandate of Article 104.2 of the Spanish Constitution is fulfilled in a special and appropriate way. It is not retrograde at all, quite the opposite. Among other things, it has a permanent reference to the Spanish educational system, it has a permanent reference to the Bologna Plan, it has a permanent reference to the Basic Status of the Public Employee of 2007. It's absolutely up to date. In fact, the socialist government in the previous legislature sent a bill to the Congress of Deputies but submitted it so late that, unfortunately, it could not be approved because the Chambers were dissolved when elections were called. I want to make it clear - I say this to the Socialist Group - that many of the things that were contained in that bill, because they were reasonable, incorporated, with the same or different diction, but the basic principles are incorporated in this bill. Because an institution like the police institution doesn't invent it by every government. Each Government is updating it to the extent that the passage of time requires it to be provided with a structure, organization and rules that will enable it to fulfil the mission entrusted to it in the circumstances of each moment which, by its very nature, are changing. I repeat, Mr Sixto, that I do not believe that it is beyond other issues of your permanent and repeated opposition to the Spanish police model - legitimate, as I have said, but that we do not share at all - I do not believe that this complaint is based on - along with other reservations, to which I shall then refer - your amendment in its entirety, insofar as they also share some complaints, some reservations with the Socialist Group. With regard to the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia, you say that the bill submitted by the Socialist Government in the previous parliamentary term was better; in any case they had time to do so because they were ruling for eight years and the 1986 Act had long been passed. Normally, once the 2007 Act had been passed, the Basic Status of the Public Employee would have brought this Act, but they introduced it when there was no time to pass it; therefore, if it were better, they would have introduced it earlier. It now tells us that we are presenting it very late - then I will comment on it - but in any case we are presenting it reasonably in time for the General Courts to approve it in this legislature. As for what was better, apart from what is to be seen, I want to say that in any case many of the things in that bill that has fallen are reflected in this bill. However, if you would like to go beyond the differences, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sicilia, to pick up the glove that you have on me in the sense that in the parliamentary procedure we are able to bring positions closer together. It is good for the police institution, for a state institution such as the police - even if it is possible and legitimate to disagree - that we can agree. If the differences are basically in line with what you have commented here and which contains your entire amendment, there is a basis for us in the parliamentary procedure to be able to produce a rapprochement. In addition, to the extent that it has emphasized some issue such as the designation and creation of the categories of Commissioners-General, I would like to point out that this will not be an obstacle for us to agree. The creation of the categories of Commissioners-General has been mentioned, and I want to say that in any case and without prejudice to what I have said - which I will say now - those categories have no economic remuneration, which is clear. In any case, I do accept that there can be confusion in the fact that, precisely because of the presence of the National Police, in its organization, in its structure, the Commissioners-General, the fact that there are Commissioners-General in charge of these Commissioners-General, can lead to confusion. In this regard, I am sincerely prepared, and the People's Group too, that we should approach positions in the parliamentary process, so that this is not an obstacle for us to - that would be the objective - agree on what is the fundamental content of this law, and that it can leave the Congress of Deputies and after the Senate in its case, ultimately the General Courts, approved with a broad consensus of the majority of groups in this House. I do not hide that I have a special interest, for obvious reasons, in which it can be with the Socialist Group, as the People's Group did to the contrary in the previous parliamentary term - I would like to remind you - which agreed with the Socialist Government on the adoption of the Disciplinary Regime Act of the National Police Corps in 2010, which was then adopted with the favourable votes of the People's Parliamentary Group. I therefore hope that the Socialist Group will now express this will for consensus, as it is in the opposition and in relation to the police institution, in relation to the Government of the People's Party. I insist that, as far as the Commissioners-General are concerned, there will be no obstacle to what I think is necessary being possible, which is also one of the political tasks: to ensure that what we believe is necessary, in this case a fundamental agreement in the law of the personal regime of the police, is possible, that is, the agreement between the two main groups of the Chambers. Mr Sicilia, I am not going to enter into the debate that you are now putting to me nothing more and nothing less than the Private Security Act, which has been in force for some time now, or the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security which is currently being dealt with in the Senate. I repeat from here one thing that I have said at various times: tell me one right, one freedom that restricts the draft organic law on the protection of citizens' security, tell me and I am ready to study it; we are still in time because it is in parliamentary procedure in the Senate. Tell me one public freedom, one fundamental right that restricts this bill. Now, if we govern or make policy based on headlines, based on slogans, that's another issue. We are ruling for the common good, for the general interest, and when we talk about State institutions, as in this case the police, we must not rule, we must not legislate by coup de titulare, by coup de slogan, but by a sense of responsibility. It's fine to qualify as law I don't know what or law I don't know how many initiatives, but then they stay in that, in a slogan or in a headline, but without any practical content. I prefer to remain with the statement made by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council, the Spanish Data Protection Agency and the opinion of the Council of State, that in relation to this draft organic law on the protection of citizens' security they say that it has achieved the necessary balance between freedom and security. That is not a slogan; it is a definition made by the Council of State after making a sound political analysis of the material and actual content of the bill, and not of a slogan or a headline. As regards the specific questions on which the two groups agree or which one of them raises to me and which I think are particularly relevant - of course, I am not going to enter into a comprehensive debate on all the questions they raise because that will be followed by the corresponding debate, if we go beyond the debate as a whole, in a paper, in the Commission and, since it is organic law, when it comes back to plenary, I do not want to fail today to give an answer in this debate as a whole. The two groups have agreed on one thing: non-compliance with the obligation to name the categories as female or, in other words, the sexist language used in the bill. I'm sorry to tell you what I'm going to tell you now, and I say I'm sorry because you're supposed to know these guidelines. Of course, given that they were approved by a socialist administration, it seems necessary for the Socialist Group to know the rules which they themselves have issued. In any case, Mr Sixto, the lack of knowledge of the rules does not exempt you from compliance. There are policy technical guidelines, published by Resolution of 28 July 2005 of the Office of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Presidency. The project has used the generic male when referring to the position and not to a specific person holding it at a given time. As stated in article 3 of the draft law which I am defending, equal treatment and opportunities between women and men will be observed in the interpretation and application of the rules governing access, training, professional promotion and working conditions of national police, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March, for the effective equality of men and women. For the designation of specific persons, Mr Sicilia and Mr Sixto, the then Directorate General of the Police and the Civil Guard, the government of the previous legislature, approved the Resolution of 16 September 2009 on adequacy in the field of non-sexist language, as set out in the said Organic Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of men and women as regards general criteria for the action of the public authorities in relation to equality. We have therefore complied with the requirements of an organic law of 2007 and provisions of 2009 and 2005, enacted to prevent non-sexist language or, in a positive way, to prevent discrimination between men and women. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be a little more precise when it comes to making certain criticisms, since in this case they are not legitimate, insofar as there are rules that have already addressed this issue, because this debate, as we know, does not arise now. Note that I have not made reference - I could have - to the Spanish Royal Academy of Language. I am referring to rules with a rank of organic law and resolutions of the Directorate General of the Police and the Civil Guard of the year 2009, and specific rules, guidelines of normative technique and resolutions of the Ministry of the Presidency of the year 2005. That is, whether it will be in accordance with the law or not, but it is regulated and we have adapted, as it cannot be otherwise, to what those provisions determine. I believe that I have made this clear and that my response to the criticism made by the two parliamentary groups, the Socialist and the United Left Group, Initiative per Catalunya-Els Verds and the Chunta, is well founded. They have said that organic law prints unnecessary rigidity to the project. The fourth final provision of the draft law grants only the character of organic law to the most relevant aspects of the draft law, by virtue of the assignment to fundamental rights or to the very essence of the police statutory regime, granting to the opposite sense the status of ordinary law to the aspects more related to the organization of the corporation or police institution. In particular, it is defined in that fourth final provision, which shall have the status of organic law in Articles 1, 2.1 and 3 of the preliminary title, Titles 2, 3 and 13, paragraph 1(a) and 1(c) of the single derogating provision and the first final provision. Those will have the rank of organic law, the rest will have the rank of ordinary law. Therefore, this criticism of the alleged rigidity imposed by an organic law on a law which, by the nature of the matter it regulates, the staff regime, should be of ordinary rank, the law itself resolves it. Surely if they had read it in more depth, they would not have made that criticism to me, but I have a duty, before the whole House, to clarify it. They also referred to the issue of the runway. I am not going to make judgments of intent, but I have to say that the gateway, as I have already said, is intended for all existing security forces, at the local level, at the autonomous level and at the state level, and to the extent that this is not clear, we are prepared in the parliamentary procedure to include amendments that make it possible, in such a way that officials who make up the local police, the autonomous police or who make up the other state security corps - I do not think that anyone is thinking of another state security corps in matters such as those they have mentioned - will be able to join the National Police Corps or the National Police, but that is, as is stated in the text, under the conditions that will be determined - therefore, that will have to be determined - and that they will have the qualifications required under article 26 of the draft law to join the police, etc. It therefore establishes a series of cautions that must be followed, and for the establishment of such cautions the professional police unions will also be heard, their position will be met. Therefore, it is not that the hand is opened here indiscriminately so that the officials who make up any other police force can come to join the police force, but that they can do so if they meet a series of very strict requirements, which will be established at the time by regulation and with another rank. What is being done here is legal empowerment so that, where appropriate, such integration can occur with the aim or possibility - I repeat that in other judgments of intent I will not enter - of optimizing the existing human resources in the field of public security, at the local level, at the autonomic level and at the state level. This is a legitimate objective that must be pursued by the Government of Spain and, in this case, by the Ministry of the Interior with regard to a State Security Corps such as the National Police, an institution of the State, so that it is a reference police with regard to armed institutes of a civilian nature. Madam President, I'm finishing up. I have already referred to the criticism on which they have substantiated the name of the National Police. I simply say to you that in this matter we are open to making clear everything that needs to be clarified in the course of the amendments, but I am already putting forward something that could constitute an amendment so that there is no doubt: that from the entry into force of that organic law, when it is adopted, all the references that exist in the existing legislation regarding the National Police Corps, from that point on, would be considered equally made to the National Police. As I said before, the National Police as a police force has existed substantively since the Police Act, 55/1978 - known by the entire Police as the Martín Villa Law, because it was the minister of the governorship of the time, and said with all affection towards Mr. Martín Villa, who is also my personal friend - who created the Higher Police Corps with functions of investigation, information, etcetera and the National Police Corps, effectively militarized, armed institute of a military nature. That reality remained until 1986, when the Organic Law on State Security Forces and Bodies was passed, the two bodies were integrated and the National Police Corps, an armed institute of a civilian nature, was born. Now it has been almost thirty years, specifically twenty-nine years, and I have allowed myself to use a phrase that I believe comes to mind: to normalize what is normal at the street level, which is that the members, the members, the polices that make up the National Police Corps are known as national police officers, but, given that for eight years there was a specific police force called the National Police, if there was no express legal reference to the members, the members that make up the National Police Corps are called national police and make up the National Police, it was possible to lend itself to a clear confusion, confusing what is the National Police born of this organic bill with what was the National Police that created the Police Act 55/1978 and that remained, as I said, until Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March. I think I have explained myself, but to the extent that it is not sufficiently clarified, I insist, we have the procedure of amendments to present any of them, even to the preamble or to the explanatory statement of the law, so that this is better clarified, because that will also have to do with what I have been asked from the rostrum or in the texts of the amendments in their entirety in relation to the economic cost of changing denominations, etc. I understand that, in principle, it would no longer be a problem, because they could survive in time, until the corresponding renovations or the endowments of the infrastructures of all kinds, the two denominations, but, in any case, I suppose they will be aware - I am sure that yes - that this bill, like no draft staff law, does not have the approval of the Council of Ministers if it does not have the approval of the Ministry of Finance and, in a period like the one we are living - especially as the one we have lived - of fiscal consolidation, it is clear that the economic impact of the rule has had to go through very deep studies and discussions with the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, so that this text, until it was approved as a preliminary draft law by the Council of Ministers and finally as a draft law, that is the one that we are now debating here in its entirety, has been the subject of numerous discussions and discussions, and in terms of the full cost of the matter and of the Ministry's administration - if it is perfectly possible. I'm done, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It has been mentioned - I think it is also important, Mr Sicilia, of the Socialist Group, and I would like to say that there must be no problem for us to reach an agreement - to the lack of recognition of the university centre of the National Police. With regard to this centre, the incorporation into the draft law is merely a formal matter, as it includes the approval of police studies with those required for entry into the different classification groups. If we retain in the draft law the literality of the precept, the creation of this centre, by a royal decree subsequent to this draft law, when it is adopted as an organic law in its case and in its day, and its attachment to one or more universities would be an inescapable consequence of the need for approval of the studies of access to the scale of sub-inspection to the official degree degree. I repeat that, despite this, which is the explanation behind the reference to the university centre of the National Police in the draft law, if it is considered appropriate to have a specific reference to that centre, a third paragraph could be added to the text of the draft law, in particular in article 30, in which the broad lines - and we could agree by way of amendment - are drawn up to guarantee the establishment of the university institute of the National Police in order to impart the police education of the degree and postgraduate level, the secondment to one or more public universities through agreements with them, the legal regime applicable to that university centre and all this, logically, with the need to take into account the peculiarities of the professional career of the police. I am offering it in a special way to all the groups in the House, as is evident, but in particular now to the Socialist Group, insofar as Mr Sicily contains it in his full amendment on behalf of the Socialist Group and has defended it, he has made reference to it from the rostrum. It also has in this matter, on my part and on the part of the People's Group, on whose behalf I can speak because I have dealt with it with them, of course, the maximum vocation and willingness to reach agreement and consensus. I think it would be very good, ladies and gentlemen - and this concludes, Madam President - if the partial organic bill regulating the legal regime of the National Police could come out with the highest level of consensus in this House. Please be assured that you have been subjected to a lot of treatment, a lot of negotiation with the professional police unions, where there have been discrepancies, as is evident, but where there have also been many agreements and many progress in relation to the current legislation, which, as I said earlier, is dispersed, some of which is pre-constitutional, a regulation which, on the other hand, was not incorporated, such as that of the basic statute of the public employee, the updating of the qualifications required for the Bologna Plan, the national education system, etc., which makes it possible for the national police personnel system containing this draft law to provide us with a police institution such as the National Police at the level of the times when we live, at the level of professionalism we demand, at the level of social recognition it has and at the level of the very important function it has entrusted, such as to ensure citizen security and to protect the free and peaceful exercise of public freedoms and our fundamental rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. In turn of reply, by the IU Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u25	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for the deference that you always use the reply when there is an amendment to the whole. Despite the political distance that separates you and my group, I have to acknowledge that. I say this because so far my parliamentary group has amended all the bills that your department has brought to the House and you have given us the answer absolutely in all of them, which other members of the Government do not have to do. His love for the House and for parliamentary work certainly enhances him in this respect. You have devoted much of your intervention to talking about the police model. My group would very much like to have a broad debate on this issue, on the police model, which obviously separates us from what the People's Party and the Socialist Party have been defending for many years. That is not the reason to be developed now, but it is one of the reasons why we have tabled this whole amendment. By repeating what I have already said on other occasions in this plenary session, our police model is more similar to English than French or Italian. All are police models, all have their advantages or drawbacks, but we like the police model better in which the police is a single body, a body that goes without weapons mostly, the police is a much closer body. Most people know and relate a little what the model of the English police is. That would be more our police model. Interestingly, we share that assessment with other police unions. The minister in his speech also spoke of sexist language and quoted here normative, he even spoke of the Royal Academy of Language, but the fact is the fact and, as much as sexist language is normative, it is sexist language. It can be put with a male general under government regulations and under what the Royal Academy of Language says, but if we go to definitions and open the spectre of definitions that includes that Dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language, we will have a lot of controversy on many issues. That's not what we wanted to talk about. In conclusion, you have spoken about the catwalk and other aspects, about the subject of training and so on, but I have focused above all on the intervention of my parliamentary group in defence of our amendment of the whole on the issue of rights, beyond that it seems to us to be a retrograde law because it recovers an old name, which I said in my previous speech that it was a sample button, especially because the law does not develop or sufficiently protect the one that should be its objective: the individual and collective rights of members of the National Police Corps or, if the law is finally changed, of the National Police. I have disenfranchised some of the individual rights that we believe are not protected, and also the collective rights to which you have made no reference in your speech, nor have you opened up the possibility of being reformed or strengthened in the process in the Commission through the amendments. My parliamentary group would like at least you to open up the possibility of strengthening the collective rights of members of the National Police Corps. Nor has he made any reference to the issue that we have raised with him of free designation, commission of services or objective evaluation, which are fundamental issues that lead us to reject this text and to call for its return to the Government. Mr Minister, we, with this amendment as a whole, have not intended to make an opposition to a coup d'état. We have not referred to other bills that are not currently being debated in the House, but to very specific issues of concern to the members of the National Police Corps and to the entities that represent them, to the trade unions that represent them. We have worked with them on the amendments we are going to table, with them we have worked on the refund amendment and with them we will continue to work in the hope that sooner rather than later or at some point the Spanish police model may change towards a new system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. Mr Sicilia has the floor in reply for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, I was telling my group that the Socialist text was better, that you were questioning it, but I am telling you, Minister, that we believe that this text was obviously better than the one you have presented to us and that there is no doubt that you had more consensus than the one you are presenting to us today. Mr Fernández, it would not be such a bad text when your group in this House did not reject it, abstained, and curiously abstained by a measure which it defended and which now does not appear in this law, because it cannot be legally, Minister. How curious, what you were defending and what made you abstain, because if you hadn't voted in favour - I invite you to read the Daily Sessions in the intervention that the one that today is director of the Police -, that measure that caused the abstention now does not appear in the law, because it cannot be. What happened, Minister, and that is why I was telling you and defending that the text that brought the Socialist Government to this House was better, is that in the Senate the People's Party rejected it, because, as we were told, it was not time to dialogue and consensus with the Government. What a time those, Mr Fernández and how different the position they maintained with which we now hold, that we do not consider whether it is time to agree or negotiate with the Government or to agree with the Government. Let us take care of the interests that are best suited to the citizens of our country. That is why, as this is good for the citizenry, as is good for the National Police Corps in particular, I say to you that we are prepared to dialogue and I thank you in advance for that provision that you have also shown. I therefore believe that if we do a good job, we will be able to take this law forward, because on important issues that we rejected - and I am grateful to you - it seems that we will be able to reach some understanding, as is the case with the category of Commissioner-General or the name of that new name, Minister. There is no need to evoke past times, there is no need, there is no need to keep two names for a while because there is no money to change plates. Let's leave the name, even if people call whatever they want to call the National Police Corps. [[The Lord]] Minister, you were telling me we didn't do titular politics. Look, Mr Fernández, we do not do titular policy, but it does turn out to be a titular policy or at least a titular measure what you have done with the catwalk, an occurrence, an occurrence to try to raise a supposed conflict with Catalan independence. What do you intend to do? An OPA hostile to the Squadron Mosses? Mr. Fernández, it doesn't make any sense. Moreover, go to a police station and explain to the inspector who has been studying for years to be a chief inspector that this square can now be occupied by a local police officer, a mosso d'Esquadra or an ertzaina, however strict regulation they make in the regulation - we rely less on the regulation they can make in the regulation -. It doesn't make any sense, it doesn't improve the professionalism of the National Police Corps and its members today. Minister, it would be very sad that for this extravagant measure, which did arise at a stroke of title, because you have not even been able to justify it in the explanatory statement of the law - it is curious that one of the most important measures and that it differs the most from the text that appeared in 2011 from the Socialist Government you have not even exposed it or justified it - it would be a pity - as I say - that for this extravagant measure the law could not go forward. This is not seen well by any union, although some have not wanted to express it in public, none, Minister, and you know it. With regard to the Equality Act, I insist, there are no measures to ensure that there is a balanced presence of men and women in bodies of responsibility or in appointments. You said, Mr Fernández, and it is very curious, that you have taken many articles from the Socialist text of 2011, that there are many who are the same. Why have they not taken Article 9.2 which states that, in the event of a woman's ownership, the classification of categories will be that of Commissioner, Inspector or Subinspector? That's what I'm talking about, Minister. You had the opportunity to have willingly accepted this article, to have complied with the Equality Act and have not done so. I insist on this because it happens not only when drafting legislation, but even in practice they forget that there are a large number of women and, moreover, that we must continue to encourage women to enter the National Police Corps because the imbalance that exists is of course very remarkable. I'm done, Mr. President. As I was telling you, from my group we're going to work to find that agreement. This law is necessary, so much so that the former socialist government brought it to the House. We have that great meeting point which is the need for the National Police Corps to have a personnel law. Therefore, Minister, let us not block this possibility, let us not block the adoption of the law on issues that we both know are seriously salvable and we also know that, in what we do not agree on, such as the catwalk, the unions do not want it and neither would society understand it. Let's give the National Police Corps a good law, they've been waiting for years and they deserve it. Let us recognize their professionalism - as we have been doing from my group every day - and from here let us do that work to equip the National Police Corps with that law of personnel. For our part, I insist, it won't stay. We will table amendments to improve the law and trust that we can reach a good agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, the truth is that we have no great objection to you in relation to this law, which gives me some intellectual concern in this legislature. I do not know whether I may not have read it carefully enough, but, in general terms, in relation to its philosophical foundations, it is well articulated. One doubt, a concern that I have is whether, in relation to crime rates, the preventive and repressive efficiency of the police forces is so much and the Spanish State is so sure, why do you present laws such as the protection of citizen security or the new Criminal Code, that what you do is to expand the punitive reproach, the intensity of it and, in addition, the number of criminal figures. It would not be necessary in purity of principle if things go so well, and not bad, we have crime rates that would be among the lowest in Europe and this is credited with the percentage of prison population per 100,000 inhabitants. Mr Sicilia was right that it might have been relevant to draw up not one but two laws, both organic, one concerning the rights and duties of officials, as was done with the Civil Guard precisely, and another concerning the status of staff, which is something else. The inclusion of both normative elements in a single legal text does not provide particular legal certainty, but this does not justify the submission of either a partial amendment or an amendment to the whole by our parliamentary group. We have an objection, this is an intense one, which is the one concerning the fourth additional provision and the catwalks. Will you pass them to where, Minister? Towards Ertzaintza? In the Ertzaintza the condition or the nature of the vacancy does not exist technically. If you look at the Basque Police Act, you will see how the recruitment system of the Basque police, of the Ertzainas, is through promotions that cover the vacancies in their entirety, with a problem that was linked to the replacement rate, Minister - and, let me congratulate you, if you will excuse me for a moment - that could be solved. It was a problem linked to the replacement rate or the impossibility of maintaining a replacement rate that was causing a perverse effect that was the aging of the Ertzaintza, a body that, through a successive tract system, is being covered without leaving any technically vacant in the form of promotions. Then, in relation to the Ertzaintza, without going into reflections that perhaps have a paranoid point, if I am allowed the expression - you intend, through the National Police, to penetrate autonomous police bodies to suppress the sovereignist processes in some countries; in any case, I cannot share opinions of this so conspiratorial nature - there is no possibility. There is a possibility that many national police officers or members of the National Police Corps would like to join the local police. Why? Because the pay conditions and working conditions of local police officers are significantly higher or better than those of the National Police and we run the risk - you run the risk - of getting rid of national police officers who are going to try to capture places or vacancies in local police officers, in addition from a perspective where the principle of municipal autonomy can be resented if we do not refine, and we are going to introduce some amendment in this regard, what is the system of the walkway with an organ like the local police, where the Law on Local Regime Bases has much to say about its dependence on the configuration of its body, on the labour characteristics and on the status of its personnel. With regard to the Squadron Mosses, the personnel regime is substantially different from that of the National Police Corps, and the integration of the identification of a number of scales, those of the National Police Corps with those of the Mosses, is almost metaphysically impossible, without prejudice to the fact that it will also cause difficulties in terms of the greater attractiveness, from a remunerative perspective and of other working conditions, of attending to any autonomous police in relation to those possessed by the national police. Perhaps the thought I should give is how to improve working conditions. I imagine that it will be possible to make it through formulas similar to collective bargaining, to the collective convention of the National Police and, above all, of the Civil Guard, which have worse working conditions. What is unlikely is that the catwalk is in the sense of transfers from the National Police Corps to the Civil Guard. You will see how there are few requests for competitions in this area. From that point of view, our objection is going to be that and I hope that with your invocation of consensus in the parliamentary procedure and in the partial amendments these problems can be resolved. On the other hand, Minister, I draw much attention to the fact that, with what we have discussed in this legislature, you and I have to shut up now and have no more to reproach you, but, well, sometimes also, when things are done right, why not recognize them. It's an extravagant practice, but it's not for me. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u31	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has not tabled - as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen and the Minister in particular - an amendment to the whole of this draft organic law on the National Police personnel regime, because we understand that it is a necessary law and that the objective of having a law for the police of these characteristics - not of the characteristics of this text, but if a law of police - is a long pursued and necessary objective, even at the end of this parliamentary term. That is why we have not tabled a full amendment calling for a return, but we share many of the criticisms that have been made by the amendments, particularly those that have to do with the text we are discussing today and not with other issues. I am not going to go in to assess which police force our group defends or to evaluate other laws such as the law of citizen security, because, if I did, on the thread of what the minister has done at the beginning of his intervention, that is, to talk about how well security is going in Spain and how confident our country is and how high and positive they make especially those who visit us, that is, tourists, the only thing I would suggest would be to ask you why you have undertaken to implement this new law of citizen security if everything is so good and there is so much security, but, although you have invited us to do so, I am not going into that and I am going to strictly limit myself to what has to do with the content of this law. As I said, I share many of the criticisms that have been made with regard to the contents of the law, and I will put it into two points. I believe that it is a law that politicizes the police in an absolutely inappropriate and unnecessary way, that it is a law that progresses very little and that in some respects it even recedes from the perspective of the recognition of social and civic rights as citizens of national police. These two issues are very important, because we are talking about a law that affects the National Police and the national police, that is, that politicizes it. It seems to me that it is very negative and that the measures that you have incorporated into this law will have this consequence if they are not amended in the course of amendments. In addition, I insist, the social and civic rights of men and women who are members of the National Police Corps and who have them because they are Spanish citizens are not recognized. The limitation of rights for police officers cannot be above the limitation that must arise strictly from the performance of their duties, strictly, and this law limits civic rights above those that have to do with the performance of their duties, which are to protect the freedoms and security of all Spaniards. You, Minister, in your speech put a lot of emphasis on that, that the National Police Corps, all the men and women who make up it, have given the mandate to protect our freedoms, the freedoms of the whole and the individual freedoms of each of us. Protecting our rights, protecting our freedoms, as I say, cannot go in contradiction with guaranteeing them all the rights and freedoms they have, I insist, because they are Spanish citizens who later wear a uniform, which they can access precisely because they are Spanish citizens. These are the issues that underpin our criticism of this law. These are issues that will be considered at the time of the debate and at the time of the amendments. They have to do, as I said, with a maximum politicization of the police force that focuses, to cite some example, on the creation of a maximum category of the National Police Corps that is composed in a discretionary manner. The creation of this category, which has also been said by those who have intervened before, is a National Police Corps that is more dependent on the public authorities, more politicized. This is very bad for the police and very bad for the safety of everyone. In addition, we believe that it is unnecessary to reassess the role of the interviews aimed at verifying the suitability in the performance of the functions. Some Supreme ruling points out that the optimal mechanism for selective tests of knowledge is through agenda rather than through interviews. We also believe that it is strictly necessary to limit the posts of free designation within the National Police Corps and to review the ages stipulated for officers to move to second activity on their own request. It is an issue which is not covered by the law and which I hope can be dealt with through the amendments. We consider that there is a band of less than sixty years old which contains the text and in which the agents may not have the necessary characteristics, according to what the text attributes, to carry out the tasks properly on the lower scales, but which may move to a second activity. We also believe that it would be important to move forward. And the law, as I said earlier, not only does it not advance, but in some cases it recedes in what has to do with the recognition of social rights and civil rights. Here we have been talking about the catwalk; but it is not just the catwalk, it is that we meet again with the need to show that those who protect the security of all Spaniards, who have the highest powers, in this case the National Police Corps, also the Civil Guard, cannot have lower social rights and lower economic rights than other police officers in the Spanish State. This is a recurring issue. When you - the People's Party - are in the opposition, you defend the approval, and when you - the Socialist Party - are in the opposition, you defend the approval, but when each of you arrives at the Government, he defends that there is no approval and that there is this discretion of treatment. It can't be. This is something that we will have to address at some point, and we cannot appeal to economic reasons because they are grounds for mere justice; that is, we must incorporate it as one of the key elements in order for the police to truly be treated among them also with justice. By the way, speaking of the economic issue - which I mentioned when we talked about approvals - there is another issue which has also merited continuous references in the procedure, both by the amendments and by the minister, both in his first intervention and in the reply. I am referring to the change of nomenclature, the change of name of the National Police; National Police Corps to the National Police. I will tell you - I believe that, at the moment, even the proposing parliamentary group itself, the People's Group, is in this debate - that our group seems to be an occurrence worthy of not being taken into account, really. I have not found in the Minister's arguments - and see that the Minister has endeavoured to explain it, and that too must be acknowledged - no one who supports the idea of changing the name. I have not found any historical arguments or any kind of arguments. The fact that he's called the National Police doesn't seem to me to be an argument either. You have set yourself, Minister - because my colleagues have pointed out to you - at the cost of the economic resources to be invested in order to bring about this change, and you have explained to us that if there is not enough money for a while the two nomenclatures will survive. But he told us something very interesting at the end of his speech; he told us - he didn't say it like that, but I say it like this - that Montoro is fine with it anyway. And I said, Man, he is informed by the Ministry of Finance! A Montoro's fine with you. If Montoro didn't like it, we wouldn't have done it. And I ask him: How much does it cost? Because you say you have an economic report on what that change costs, but it doesn't appear in the law, it doesn't appear anywhere. How much does it cost us, even if Montoro likes it? Because, perhaps, we decided, for example, to replace police; that there would be more police, instead of changing their names, because that is what we need, right? I think you'll even agree with me on that. This week has been the week of the state pact against terrorism, so-called, and we have all agreed that it was very important to make a state pact, although what you have done, in my opinion, is not; you know my opinion. But we all agree that combating terrorism effectively requires more intelligence and more means, and that is more men and women, apart from more intelligence and more resources for research and to prevent attacks. Well, stop spending the money on changing the names of the cops and hire the cops, reposition the police stations, which is going to be a lot more effective than changing their names. Because in order for us to know that today's police is not the Francoism Police, Minister, they don't need to change their names; we already know that. We already know it's not the Francoism Police, you don't need to change his name. It's the Democracy Police; we already know that. Therefore, Minister, there is no justification for that extravagant measure of modernisation or ownership that you want to incorporate in this text. My group will be making amendments that reflect all these issues that I have made clear in this brief speech. It will make amendments which aim to recognise all your social, political rights and which also have the effect of avoiding the politicisation of the police that you want to commit to this rule. I hope that this extended hand that you have offered from the rostrum, aimed primarily at the two parliamentary groups which have tabled amendments in their entirety, will also be a extended hand to those who have not tabled amendments in their entirety. And I hope, Minister, and I sincerely say this to you, that that extended hand of which you have spoken today is a real extended hand, not the style of the one that we were told we were being held to do what they called a state pact against terrorism. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan Parliamentary Group has not tabled any amendment in its entirety, firstly because it is a rather technical issue and, secondly, because there have been many sectoral consultations which must be respected. Everything that contributes - and we hope that it will finally do so - to making security bodies more democratic, transparent and accessible is good for us. What did we want? From the outset, it is a law that has a historical character. The National Police Corps, the National Police, in almost thirty years of existence had never had a rule that talked about police rights and duties; now it is done and it is not a minor issue. We like to see the rights but also the duties of the police. If you will allow me, Minister, we are particularly pleased that the duty of discretion of the police is cited in relation to the information they obtain in the exercise of their duties. Let's see if from now on this is the case and they stop appearing in the first sheet of newspapers apocryphal and unsigned information. By the way, last time the minister told me about a dossier, the Trias dossier, which was in the hands of the prosecutor's office. He forgot the small detail that the prosecution had recommended his file, information that was not minor, although technically told the truth, was in the hands of the prosecution. But it should be underlined in positive terms that the rights and duties of the police are regulated for the first time in thirty years. We want to emphasize the reconciliation of personal and family life, equal treatment between men and women, introduce the issue of gender-based violence and, as we did with the Civil Guard, the issue of work and sexual harassment. We will try to delve into some of the elements introduced by this law. On the other hand, things we value in positive terms: the hiring of civil liability insurance; social protection in the event of death, total permanent disability, etc. Also that the law collects, within the free opposition, that the level of titling is raised because also the average of the people of the Spanish State has risen and it would not make sense that those who defend the fundamental freedoms of the individuals finish the titlings that at this moment are already approaching the school failure. Therefore, we understand that this adequacy is correct. This and something else that does not seem wrong to us is what has prevented us from submitting an amendment of the whole. Having said that, I have to talk about the catwalk. What you're talking about is a Catalan sovereignist, but we're not opposed to inter-administrative mobility. We would like it to exist in Europe, so we are not going to oppose it to exist in the Spanish State, but the catwalk provided for in the additional fourth of this law has a trap because, as Mr Olabarría has said very well, so long as the autonomous communities cannot create squares and the State yes, or the municipalities cannot create squares and the State yes, this, by definition, is not free mobility between administrations, but in one direction. Therefore, from an ideological point of view we would not be inconvenient, as long as it was a clean and free inter-administrative mobility, and at this time it is not the case. For salary and other reasons, I don't think there's much mobility between autonomous police officers and the National Police Corps. Another thing is among the local cops. It is true that there are many who have better wages and conditions than the current National Police Corps, but there are others who do not. It is not a minor issue that, as in other laws I am not going to quote here, you have emptied many municipalities of competence. Therefore, the temptation to make an opa hostile to certain local police officers because they would already have trained boys and girls who would have already gone through the academy, who would have had the professional exercise that would have paid their respective municipalities to end up in the hands of people who, in short, did not pay it, would seem to us a great injustice. Therefore, pass it yes, but let's talk about how, when, and under what conditions. In any case, we would be grateful if progress could be made in the equalization of remuneration and in the retirement age of the Security Forces and Corpses. This is a recurring, ancient theme, an old claim from both the local police and the Mosso d 'Esquadra in terms of retirement age and the salary model, as you know, of the Civil Guard and the National Police Corps. We are in great condition to deal with this matter. There is right, there is justification, there is reason on both sides for these issues to be resolved. It doesn't make sense to have an agent eight hours on the street from the age of sixty. It probably won't work. From the inspector's scale, it can probably be otherwise, but it makes no sense, honestly, to do according to what things. Nor do wage differences make sense. I therefore believe that both issues should be dealt with. In any case, we expect an open and transparent debate, in line with a law which - I repeat, Minister - we consider historic. Police rights and duties are regulated for the first time. This deserves a legislative text that is a tool for the body, but also an insurance for the citizenry. I repeat, the Security Forces and Bodies must provide security, not insecurity, as has happened too many times in recent times due to very individual and identifiable actions that have existed. Therefore, count on our cooperation in the sense that we have told you, and I hope this will really help the National Police Corps to be a security element for the entire population once again. [[The Lord]] Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the People's Group, Mr Cabello de Alba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to reason the support of this group for the organic law of the National Police Staff Regime, which the Minister of the Interior on behalf of the nation has presented to this rostrum in a thorough and complete manner. It is an enormously necessary and expected law by those who are part of this professional collective vital for a democracy because of the importance of the role that the Constitution assigns to it: nothing less than the protection of the free exercise of our rights and freedoms and the guarantee of citizen security. The National Police Corps has so far had and has in its hands as its constitutional mandate the maintenance of a difficult balance between rights and duties, between freedoms and security, which its own members, although not denied, have been hampered so far by the lack of a legal body with sufficient rank in which their rights and duties were collected in a unitary manner, has already been said in this rostrum. So far these rights and duties have been vaguely defined with enormous legislative dispersion and even - as has also been noted here - with force of pre-constitutional articulation. Based on this background and considering the time that has elapsed since the adoption of the Law on Security Forces and Bodies, the legal changes that have been taking place and, in particular, the adoption of Law 7/2007 of 12 April, that is, the basic statute of the public employee, as well as the evolution of the National Police Corps itself in its continuous and exemplary adaptation to social demands, has necessitated the updating of the police statutory regime by means of a rule with the appropriate legal rank, adapting it to the organizational and functional needs of the body and to the demands of the men and women who make up it. Therefore, the motivation of this Organic Law is to provide national police officers with a specific statute that governs in its own, complete and systematic manner the set of rights that they have as public servants and the duties that are due to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Police Corps, its men and women have contributed exceptionally - nobody can doubt it - to the maintenance and strengthening of our democracy, they have been able to preserve our constitutional rights and freedoms and we owe them the best of the laws possible to regulate their specific status. This parliamentary group is so convinced of the kindness and the progress that for the police collective, and therefore for the rest of society in general, represents this organic bill that today presents the Government of the nation as open to its improvement throughout the parliamentary process. We are convinced of his kindness because we understand that this law is absolutely necessary for the proper statutory organization of the National Police. We are convinced of his goodness because this law maintains the proper balance between the needs arising from the demands of his mission and the individual rights of his members, who for the first time with this law are not only equated with the rights of the rest of the civil servants of the State, but also specifically reflect the effective equality between women and men, especially in the areas of income, training, professional promotion and working conditions. The effective implementation of the principle of gender equality will for the first time promote the professional development of the civil servant and his compatibility with the reconciliation of working and family life, even allowing for promotion from administrative situations other than those of assets or special services, as is customary. Ladies and gentlemen, this law strengthens the legal and economic protection of civil servants, which will give them greater security in the day-to-day performance of their duties. All scales of the National Police are fully integrated into the classification groups of the basic Staff Regulations. The training requirements for entry into the National Police are adapted to the new qualifications of the Bologna Plan and to the educational level of the country, so from now on police studies can be approved to the general education system. Ascent systems are unified by combining in all scales the ascent by opposition and by antiquity. A new second activity regime is established which respects, as has already been said, all expectations of law. The importance of the Police Council as a body for consultation and participation of National Police officials, etc., is emphasized. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand the United Left's return amendment in so far as the police model that contains the rule, whether it is by the way, is the same as it currently exists and is so good service to our country, is not the ideal of its political form. It is legitimate, but what I cannot admit, Mr Sixto, under no circumstances is that it leads to a setback in the rights of officials; quite the contrary. As I can't admit that it involves a militarization of the body, Mr. Sixto. This is a body with a very clear civil vocation and the Government shares 100 percent of that same vocation. Look at how far, in my opinion, it is your attachment to the military, Mr Sixto, that in the text of your amendment to the whole argues that with the change of name from National Police Corps to National Police - at the same time - this institution is located closer to military bodies than to civilians, and you refuse to hear the explanation of the reason for the change, which is the name by which, despite everything, citizens call their police. I'll give you an example. Not long ago, the Civil Guard Staff Bill was discussed here. Well, read out of curiosity the Daily Sessions. You made different allusions to the Civil Guard and the police, and do you know how you called the police every and every time you referred to it? Like the rest of the citizens of this country, as the National Police and I am sure that in his heart he was not accentuating the military character. In fact, Mr Sixto, on this occasion your group, when presenting the amendment as a whole, has simply added to a short and stick the union requests for amendments to the joint text, which has a hue, but does not collect them all or from all the unions, nor has it even properly analysed their content. I'll give you another example. You criticize the performance evaluation system and say - I repeat - that police activity cannot be at the service of assessments, but rather of needs. It's obvious, I agree with you on that. What you forget, Mr Sixto, is that this method of personnel management is expressly reflected in Article 20 of the Basic Staff Regulations, Law 7/2007... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u36	I'm sorry, Mr. Cabello de Alba. I pray silence to be able to attend to the intervener. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I say that it is reflected in Article 20 of the basic statute which was adopted in this House with the votes in favour of its political group. I mean with this, Mr Sixto, that as much as you want to make it clear, the position of the vast majority of the members of the body and the position of the Government of the nation with regard to this bill is not contrary. They both want the law, they both want the best possible law, and that is our job throughout the parliamentary process. With regard to Mr Sicilia's speech, I would also like to express to him my desire and the willingness of this group to find common improvements to enable the consensus that the institution needs and deserves. I cannot agree with you, Mr Sicilia, that the draft is the result of a final moment and, as you have indicated in your amendment as a whole, much less I can agree that the sole purpose is that the police force should not be aware of the content of the draft. In any case, you are daring to speak of the last moment, when in the last legislature you left the law in the Senate. That's the rush of time. You know perfectly well, among other things because it is collected in the memory of normative impact analysis, that the works started in February 2012, precisely with the formation of an administration-union group. There have been two administrative-union working groups over this period and twice the project has been passed for information by the Police Council. I can also assure you - and you know it, Mr Sicilia - that at this stage the opinion of the trade unions is also heard very carefully, with whom there is also a fluid and fruitful relationship. I do not agree with you in many of the interpretations contained in your amendment as a whole. I do not want to insist on the subject of sexist language, because it is extraordinarily clear that the Minister has then expressed it, but I do want to make one thing clear, because it gives the impression that it is something that is prevented from doing in the National Police Corps. Precisely, regardless of what wording you consider most appropriate through the regulatory technical guidelines, the resolution of 16 September 2009 of the then Directorate General of the Police and the Civil Guard already enables that non-sexist language to be included in the National Police Corps, and since then and now, you know it perfectly, they exist in the National Police Corps - so it is collected in their respective professional cards - commissioners and commissioners, inspectors, sub-inspectors and sub-inspectors, etc. Of course, these are not the issues on which consensus can be avoided, Mr Sicily, nor are these or others that have arisen with the rest of the parliamentary groups, because agreements can be reached throughout the parliamentary process. I am sure of that, even though I understand that you have used this rostrum and this moment and, therefore, the National Police Corps itself as an excuse to make a certain ideological claim, which I certainly do not share and which, in any case, seems to me to be out of time. If I tell you that I am absolutely convinced that it is your will, as is mine, that in the parliamentary process an improved legal text is offered to the police institution, allowing them to continue to perform their magnificent service to society effectively and transparently, but also with the corporate and personal guarantees that this collective demands of us. That's why, Mr. Sicilia, how do I really believe in...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u38	Mr. Cabello, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u39	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. As I believe that the approach is possible, I would invite you to withdraw the amendment as a whole and that we can start working definitively and directly on the amendments to the article for the good and for the improvement of the law. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u40	Thank you, Mr Cabello de Alba. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u41	Let us vote, first of all, on the motions. The first two motions are going to be voted point by point and the voting time is in 10 seconds, I say to you so that you can take a look at the matter. I will simply say approved or rejected at each point. First motion. Motion for a resolution by the Joint Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández, on the negative consequences of the new system of electrical interruptibility for industries of great importance, such as Alcoa A Coruña and Alcoa Avilés and Megasa Siderúrgica, among others. This motion is going to be voted on in its own terms and its five points will be voted on separately. Point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 127 against, 172 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u42	It's rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 124 against 173 abstentions 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u43	It's rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 126 against, 172 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u44	It's rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 21 against, 279 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u45	It's rejected. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 21 against, 270 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u46	It's rejected. - OF THE IU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL KEY, ON THE SITUATION OF THE ENERGY POLICY OF THE STATE. [[File number 173/000192]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u47	Motion by the Plural Left Group on the state of state energy policy. It is voted on its own terms. The items will be voted on separately and there will be sixteen. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 25 against, 171 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u48	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 127 against, 171 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u49	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 172 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u50	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 139 against, 173 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u51	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 138 against, 172 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u52	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 127 against, 173 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u53	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 132 against, 172 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u54	It's rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 138 against, 172 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u55	It's rejected. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 136 against, 173 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u56	It's rejected. Point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 126 against, 173 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u57	It's rejected. Point 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 120 against, 173 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u58	It's rejected. Point 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 120 against, 186 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u59	It's rejected. Point 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 121 against, 176 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u60	It's rejected. Point 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u61	It's rejected. Point 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 172 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u62	It's rejected. Point 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 120 against, 178 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u63	It's rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON INVESTIGATION AND EXPLORATION PERMITS IN CANARY AND MEDITERRANEAN HYDROCARBURES. [[File number 173/000193]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u64	Motion by the Socialist Group on permits for research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Canary Islands and the Mediterranean. A compromise amendment has been accepted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the amendment by the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, which is the one known to your ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 132 against, 178 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u65	It's rejected. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO THE GOVERNMENT TO SUPPRIMATE THE ENFORCEMENT OF DEPUTATES, SENATORS AND GOVERNMENT. [[File number 173/000194]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u66	Motion by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, on the steps the Government intends to take to suppress the suffocation of Members, Senators and Government. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 117 against, 173 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u67	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u68	We now vote on the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the promotion and mutual protection of investments, made in Riyadh on 9 April 2006. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 286 against, 17 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u69	It was adopted. - Joint Purchase Agreement for Medical Countermeasures, made in LuXEMBOURG on June 20, 2014. [[File number 110/00140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u70	Agreement for the joint acquisition of medical countermeasures, done at Luxembourg on 20 June 2014. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes cast; 313 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u71	It was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u72	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft Organic Staff Law of the National Police, submitted by the parliamentary groups of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural and Socialist Left. Five telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 5 telematics votes, 316; in favour, 115 plus 3 telematics votes, 118; against, 174 plus 2 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u73	They're rejected. ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONFERENCE OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004: - No, no, no, ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, BY THE FULL OF CAMERA, TO THE EFFECTS OF THE PROVIDED FOR IN THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTATES OF 11 MAY 2004 ON OFFICIAL SECRETS. [[File number 052/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u74	We now turn to the last item on the agenda, the election of a Member, in accordance with the third item of the Resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. The deputy proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is Don Rafael Hernando Fraile. Groups wishing to intervene may do so from minor to greater for a period of five minutes. Firstly, Mr Tardà has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this X Legislature began under the sign of abnormality as our parliamentary group, the Joint Group, was the victim of an outrage. Eighteen Members of Parliament, eight different political forces, one of them Amaiur, with more Members than two parliamentary groups present in this House, suffered a blow. I repeat, the abuse we suffered at the beginning of this parliamentary term has no precedent in Spanish democracy, once it has been reestablished. In accordance with all this, we express at the moment our deep disappointment as the parliamentary groups which did not agree with the veto imposed on us by the People's Party or with the absurd, ridiculous and anti-democratic reasons for reading If you want, I'll remind you. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which had been elected the political force representing the Joint Group in this Committee of Official Secrets - I repeat: elected by the rest of the parliamentary group - was vetoed by the People's Party even though Esquerra was already represented in the Committee of Official Secrets in other legislatures. You know why? Because it turns out that we were independenceists and friends of the Basque independenceists present in this Parliament, democratically elected by Basque citizenship, of the comrades and companions of Amaiur. It wasn't for us to pass on information. That's absurd, that's ridiculous! How stupid of you to be politically! And they didn't fall for shame. [[Protests]] They didn't fall for shame because they have little, this is the truth. What you did has no name. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u76	Please, I beg your silence. Mr Tardà, you should proceed with restraint in your appeals to the plural groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u77	We have been suffering a blow for three years and then we ask the rest of the opposition's comrades to show solidarity. Were they? Yeah. A lot? Little. Because you know that if you had refused to form the Commission this Parliament would not have been able to bear this shame. Even so, you have legitimately chosen to be half-way in solidarity with us. So over these three years we have been protesting when we have been able. How? We have always been absent when there have been votes to elect new representatives in this Committee. And since we are already before the last moment before this legislature ends to demonstrate this outrage, we ask you to do your best. We are absent, maybe you could do the same or do a null. In a way, do not allow this abuse as a precedent in order and effect that in the next legislature this precedent cannot be used as an example of normality. In four days' time, he may be suffering from Podemos or other political forces. Maybe someday, you guys. Know that the Catalan Republicans would have broken our faces for you if it had happened to you the same thing that happened to us. So do what you have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Our parliamentary group has no problem with the proposal made to us by the People's Parliamentary Group, and we therefore consider Mr Rafael Hernando to be a member of the Committee on Official Secrets, but we are not going to participate in this vote. Because we find Mr Rafael Hernando as suitable as any of the names that the Joint Parliamentary Group might suggest to us, and we are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, faced with a democratic anomaly. All groups in this House have the right to have one representative on the Committee on Official Secrets and if one group believes in the right to veto another we believe in the right to boycott this vote and we will not participate in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Socialist Group, Mr Heredia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are going to vote for the proposal made by the People's Party so that its spokesman has access to official secrets, but I would also like to remind you that this did not happen in previous legislatures. We believe that all groups have equal rights, and the Joint Parliamentary Group cannot be an exception. Nor can it be an exception for the Joint Parliamentary Group to choose a Member whom it deems appropriate and appropriate. I would also like to recall that it was a President of Parliament who, on 11 May 2004, included, by changing the Rules of Procedure, that the Joint Parliamentary Group could have access to this type of information. We believe that institutional normality is an essential value of the democratic system. Therefore, today we will support the spokesman of the Group of the European People's Party to join this Committee on Official Secrets, but if it had been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, we would have voted on it too. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Heredia. For the People's Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth time this debate has taken place in this legislature where political groups have had the opportunity to express their views. But it is also the fifth time that some spokesperson takes advantage of this turn to make disqualifications, to make up-to-date statements, to launch value judgments as unfair as exaggerated and to repeat the already tired latches against the People's Parliamentary Group for lack of arguments that support their position. [[Applauds]] I know that trying to convince them is as useless a mission as empty, because, I repeat, this is the fifth time we have this debate, but, out of respect for this House, I will try to summarise our reasons and thus respond to your accusations as well. For starters, and that is what we are going to vote on, I want to mean that the candidate proposed by our parliamentary group has sufficient political height, experience, capacity and conditions to be able to belong to the Committee on Official Secrets. [[Applauds]] A committee which is special, ladies and gentlemen, which is not just any committee because it deals with very sensitive and extremely important information for all the Spaniards, a committee which knows questions relating to intelligence services and which affect our security as a nation, so Members who want to be part of it must be required to make a commitment of discretion, but also a plus of loyalty to the State; yes, ladies and gentlemen, a plus of loyalty to the State which cannot be presumed by all Members, not of course by some of the speeches they have made, also this morning, because they are just in the opposite direction. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr Tardà, the same freedom you have to go up to this rostrum and say what you want, we have the rest of the Members to decide on the conditions of eligibility of those who have to be part of the Committee on Official Secrets. I'd miss more! Or is it that here the only one who has the freedom to act is you? [[Applauds]] Do not forget that the resolution of May 2004 does not say that the groups appoint or elect a representative, what the resolution of 2004 says is that the groups can propose a candidate, but who elects that representative is this House and does so in a free, sovereign and majority manner, which is how things are decided in a democratic parliament. [[Applauds]] So stop talking about vetoes, let alone abuse, because it is you who have not wanted to find a solution and seek an alternative within the Joint Group. Don't talk about vetoes, talk about votes. And if we talk about votes, start by wondering one thing. If this House has 350 Members and 165 are not members of the People's Parliamentary Group, why have the candidates for their formation in the previous four votes not even had 140 votes, in some cases only 90? Or didn't they ask you that? If you have been asked, the answer has been given in this House and it is not exclusively by veto of the People's Party, because there are other Members from other groups who have not voted for them either. That is also freedom and democracy, Mr Tardá. [[Applauds]] So, and I finish, don't confuse this rostrum with a campaign rally because, in the end, for a lot of fun and a lot of show that you want to put together, it's you who end up being politically evident. You know why? Because one cannot defend the breakup of the State and want to be part of a commission that precisely seeks to safeguard its protection and security. So, be clear. One cannot defend one thing and its opposite because, in the end, what can happen to them is the same as the demagogue, who end up being victims of your own propaganda. Nothing more. [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. We shall vote for the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Member shall be elected if he attains a three-fifth majority, that is to say, 210 votes. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, as well as a number of Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber]] The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-12-CD150212.u85	The voting was as follows: 279 votes in favour of Rafael Hernando Fraile, 252; 1 votes in favour of Joan Tardà i Coma, 7; 19. Don Rafael Hernando Fraile is therefore elected for the purposes of this Presidency resolution. Congratulations. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was one in the afternoon.
