ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u1	The meeting was resumed. I should like to inform you that point XI, the debate on all legislative initiatives, the computer bill of the system of labour inspection and social security, will not be discussed because the amendment to the whole has been withdrawn. On the other hand, since there are Senate amendments to the organic bill, we anticipate that the vote will not be before two o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u2	We now proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 6/2015 of 14 May, amending Act 55/2007 of 28 December 2007 on cinema, granting several extraordinary credits and credit supplements in the State budget, and adopting other tax measures. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree-Law 6/2015, adopted last 14 May by the Council of Ministers and whose validation I ask the House today, has a dual purpose: on the one hand, it authorizes the granting of extraordinary credits and credit supplements for an amount close to 18,400 million euros, with which it responds to several urgent needs, the main of which is to complete the State's capital contribution to the Financing Fund for Autonomous Communities. On the other hand, two specific actions which the Government considers to be very important and which have an undeniable economic and social impact are approved: the modification of the regime of measures to promote cinema and the improvement of tax treatment for taxpayers through the marketing of subordinated debt and preferential holdings. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by explaining the approval of extraordinary credits and credit supplements. On 26 December 2014, the Council of Ministers adopted Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 on measures for the financial sustainability of the autonomous communities and local entities. This royal decree-law created the Fund for the financing of autonomous communities, aimed at ensuring the financial sustainability of the autonomous administrations affiliated to it. This fund will formalize credit operations with the Autonomous Communities to meet their financial needs. As you know, since the beginning of the current legislature the Government has promoted a number of financing mechanisms with which to offer additional liquidity to the territorial entities which, due to the situation of serious economic crisis and also to the high deficit of the administrations, were having difficulty in sustaining their public services and paying the invoices of the providers of these services, mainly in the field of social policy. Many of these territorial administrations found that the markets required them to pay very high interest to access to finance, and even in some cases the conditions imposed on them were so strict that they almost amounted to preventing access to such financing. These liquidity mechanisms put in place by the Government over the years have enabled autonomous communities and municipalities to resolve their financing problems to a large extent, so that they have been able to sustain public services, in particular social services, which they provide to citizens while fulfilling their financial and trade commitments. For today, 28 May, it is planned to pay extraordinary liquidity mechanisms to the autonomous communities of 954 million euros for payment to suppliers. In addition, in all cases, the autonomous communities have achieved significant savings in the bills of interest they have had to pay, thanks to the favourable conditions offered to them by the State against which they were asked by the financial markets. It should be remembered that only last year the communities that took advantage of the liquidity mechanisms saved 542 million euros in interest, and that this year the additional savings will be 3,019 million euros thanks to the new financial facilities given by the State. The Financing Fund for Autonomous Communities, approved for this year, has a greater impact on financial facilities and is open to all communities, so that anyone who requests it will be able to benefit from the favourable conditions under which the Treasury is currently financed, which manages to raise money at historically low rates. To carry out these credit operations, which are so favourable to the autonomous communities, the Royal Decree-Law of 26 December fixed a capital contribution from the State budget of 38,869 million euros. This capital contribution could not be provided at the time of the drafting of the State General Budgets Bill, and it is therefore necessary to process during the current financial year the precise credit changes so that the funding fund has the resources allocated to it for the fulfilment of its purposes. In the current royal decree-law we are considering a credit supplement in the budget of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration to complete the state's capital contribution to the Financing Fund to the Autonomous Communities of 17,817 million euros. Also within the scope of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, the Royal Decree-Law that we submit for validation includes extraordinary credits in section 32 for grants to finance investments of the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, Castile and León and La Rioja. In particular, the grants, which will be implemented preferably through partnership agreements, will have an amount of 84.8 million in the case of Galicia; 73.9 million in the case of Castilla y León and 9.9 million in the case of La Rioja. These incentives are provided for in the eighth additional provision of Royal Decree-Law 17/2014, approved by the Council of Ministers on 26 December 2014. This compensates for autonomous communities that have not previously acceded to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund and now join the financial facility compartment of the Autonomous Communities Financing Fund. In general terms, I must also welcome the good compliance with the principles of fiscal stability and public debt, the ceiling of public debt in these communities. Another of the outstanding extraordinary credits included in this royal decree law is that destined to the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, to finance the VIII call for aid of the known as Plan PIVE for the acquisition of more efficient vehicles, after having exhausted in April the budget allocation previewed for the Plan PIVE VII. During these years the PIVE Plan has had great importance both in the field of modernization of the Spanish car fleet, with the disappearance of older vehicles and the putting into circulation of other less polluting vehicles, as well as the dynamism of the car sector, which in this case, and is not a topic, is acting as one of the real engines of our economy and which has passed a very hard period due to the economic crisis. With the previous seven editions we have achieved the goal of replacing around 886,000 old vehicles with so many new cars, and we have to celebrate what the lowest emission of polluting fuels means for our environment. The fight against terrorism is included as one of the priority objectives of this Decree-Law. This is the purpose of granting an extraordinary credit of EUR 10 million to the Ministry of the Interior, whose aim is to enhance the means for combating terrorism of a jihadist nature. Europe as a whole is alert to this phenomenon and, in Spain, police action is allowing and has allowed even the commission of attacks to be dismantled. The Government believes that in the face of the terrorist threat, there is an urgent need to strengthen the means to neutralize, or at least minimize, the risks of criminal actions against our citizens, and to that end this extraordinary credit is approved. On the other hand, an extraordinary provision is also included in the budget of the Ministry of Promotion for the Society of Rescue and Maritime Security. The objective of this appropriation, amounting to EUR 9.6 million, is to finance the extraordinary costs involved in dealing with fuel-exhaust pollution from the factory ship Oleg Naydenov, which was burned and sunk in Canarian waters last April. Within the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, a credit supplement of EUR 16 million is approved for the Institute of Cinematography to increase the Fund for the Protection of Cinematography. This credit supplement joins the one approved last September, worth 30 million euros, to carry out the call for aid for the amortization of feature films produced in 2012. These two initiatives, together with other recent initiatives such as the increase in tax incentives for film productions and stage productions, or the modification of film aid included in this very real-decree law, demonstrate the Government's interest in helping this very important cultural industry for our country. - Now I will also report some of those aspects in more detail. On the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment receives extraordinary credits in the amount of EUR 50.2 million to meet the needs that the drought is causing in the river basins of Jucar and Segura. The first of these basins will receive 20.2 million euros to alleviate the effects that the lack of rain in the water supply is causing, both for supplies to populations and for farms and livestock. The lack of precipitation in the Segura demarcation has also caused water demands to not be guaranteed at present, and the Government has therefore allocated €30 million for the implementation of measures to address this situation. Finally, the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness receives credit supplements amounting to €95.6 million for the State Plan for Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation. The aim of this money is to call for aid to promote R & D and to maintain our level in this field, as is the case with one of the countries that, like Spain, aims to be at the forefront of the most advanced in the European Union. I conclude this chapter by reminding the House that both the extraordinary credits and the credit supplements that are granted are financed by public debt. This requires the processing of a rule with the rank of law, in accordance with article 13.4 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. In addition, all extraordinary credits and credit supplements approved in Royal Decree-Law 6/2015, except for that allocated to the Financing Fund for Autonomous Communities, impact in deficit for a total amount of EUR 575 million. Ladies and gentlemen, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, this royal decree-law that the government brings to Congress for validation has a second part, which is the modification of the system of film aid and the improvement of the tax treatment of taxpayers affected by the commercialization of subordinated debt and preferential holdings. As far as the film industry is concerned, we are faced with the opening of a new procedure and obviously we all agree that the Spanish film industry is a sector that has great international prominence and, as such, contributes to the promotion of the Spanish brand. In addition, the filming that takes place in our territory attracts foreign investment and disseminates abroad an image of the country, contributing of course to activities as fundamental as our tourism. For this reason, investment in cinema and audiovisual culture has been driven in recent years by continuous improvements in tax incentives. Budget laws for 2012 and 2013 extended the deduction for investments in film productions until 1 January 2015. At the end of October 2013, it was completed by establishing the indefinite validity of the deduction for investments in cinematographic productions and audio-visual series, maintaining the deduction percentages of 18 and 5 % and expanding the basis of the deduction including copies and advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the producer. With the tax reform that has entered into force this year, the Corporation Tax Act not only maintains but increases the deduction by activities intended for film production. In particular, the deduction is increased from 18 % to 20 % for the first million euro and remains at 18 % for the rest, in both cases for both the producer and the financial co-producer; the latter could only be deducted from 5 % earlier. This measure, which is obviously part of the reduction in the type of company tax, constitutes a qualitative advance in the deduction. The new wording also provides legal certainty for the whole sector. In addition, the Companies Tax Act introduces a new deduction - it did not exist before in Spain - of 15% of the expenses incurred in Spanish territory by large international shoots, in order to attract this type of production for its realization in Spain. This Royal Decree-Law amends the system of promotion measures provided for in the Cinema Act of 2007 and replaces them with a new Law on Advance Aid to the Production of Project Feature Films, which will coexist with the traditional selective aid to projects and coordinate them with the new model of tax incentives to production. The new aid will allow for the progressive financing of film productions during their development, as the sector has been demanding, in the face of the amortisation aid that is called for two years after the film's premiere and has proved to be ineffective in times of budgetary restraint. This change will reduce the financial costs of films by more than 15 % and will direct the aid to production. The Royal Decree-Law establishes a transitional period of three years to give financial security to the sector, in which the calls for new and previous aid for depreciation will coincide. The new direct aid scheme recognises the right to grant at the start of the project. In this way, it improves the financing of companies and reduces their costs. The granting of subsidies shall be subject to a competitive competition procedure based on the weighting of objective criteria, which shall take precedence over productions whose objective is to achieve significant dissemination and the pursuit of success among the target audience. This will take into account criteria such as the economic and financial viability of the project, its possibilities for dissemination, the technical solvency of the producing company, the Spanish and European cultural relevance of the project, the innovative nature of the project and the expected socio-economic impact of the investment. In this regard, the dynamic effect of the regional economy and job creation in the national territory will be assessed. I would also like to point out that the payment of these aids will be made through successive advance payments, which can be extended over several budgetary years and will respond to the pace of implementation of production. In addition, the requirement for reimbursement of aid will be based on the results of the exploitation of the audiovisual work. I conclude this intervention, ladies and gentlemen, by pointing out that the Royal Decree-Law improves the tax treatment given in the tax reform to taxpayers affected by the commercialization of subordinated debt and preferential holdings. To this end, with effect from 1 January 2013, measures are introduced to avoid possible tax losses for taxpayers affected by agreements or judgements settling disputes on this matter, ensuring that the taxpayer is able to opt for all possibilities of compensation between income and property losses arising from such transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law that we bring for validation by Congress responds to a wide range of needs of the Spanish economy, which must be addressed urgently by the government. Its content, from financial aid to the autonomous communities relating to cinematography, through the various measures against drought, car aid, the fight against terrorism, measures against pollution in canary waters, actions in favour of preferentialists or the incentives for R & D+i, is sufficiently important to deserve the unanimous support of the House. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. Position-fixing turn. Mrs Oramas has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that the part of the royal decree on which I am going to focus, which is that of cinema, is very important to the Canarian nationalists. In the Canary Islands, in the Plan for Diversification of the Economy, we have made an important commitment for the film industry. Thus, on the one hand, in the economic and fiscal regime approved by this Congress of Deputies with the Brussels visa, measures have been introduced that reinforce those adopted by the Government of Spain between January, as the Minister has said, and this royal decree on the financing that we are debating today. We, with the measures adopted in the Canary Islands tax system that add up to 20% more differential to the rest of the state, allow an activity in which in recent years the Canary Islands has had an exceptional importance, not only in international production but also in national productions, for several reasons. On the one hand, for those 4,800 hours of sunlight a year; on the other, for the locations, since we have a small continent in a short distance and where they have been recorded from landscapes like Serbia snowed in the mountains of Esperanza and Las Mercedes, in Tenerife, to films like Exodus in areas of El Teide or Fuerteventura, passing through urban themes in the city of La Laguna or in the historic helmets. At the moment there are professionals in the Canary Islands who have been able to live up to international productions. The interest of the Canary Islands is that the Government of Spain take these exceptional tax measures seriously to assist in their international promotion. Recently, the president of the government of the Canary Islands has been in Los Angeles with the main American producing companies presenting these fiscal conditions of the Canary Islands. We think it's very important. This is not what happened more than fifty years ago when it was recorded a million years ago, with Raquel Welch, in El Teide or Moby Dick in La Gomera, because those were made exceptional. We have to have a stable industry, with professionals and canarian entrepreneurs who are currently creating small supply industries, allowing that wealth, that millions of euros that this industry represents, and not just in jobs, as it has even more capacity to create jobs and, above all, stable and quality jobs. We also have great animation professionals. And, in this regard, the measures that come under the decree will allow adequate funding for the financing system that the film industry needs, because they will, as I say, add tax measures to corporate tax and investment deduction measures to those of financing, giving an impetus that the entire audiovisual sector demanded for this objective that the Canary Islands be an international platform. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the measures of the decree, regardless of whether the rest of the measures, such as the PIVE Plan and others, seem appropriate to us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have the dubious honour to debate today, from this rostrum, on behalf of my parliamentary group, UPyD, a royal decree on the Film Act which has the title of the royal decree as a matter of concern to cinema, because, if we take into account what Minister Montoro has said, it is clear that there is no such concern. Why doubtful honor? Because this royal decree-law by the way of urgency is a real decree trap, a set of cuts, a sort of legislative frankenstein made to pieces, parts of one thing and another, which may have urgency for the PP but of course not for the film sector, which again remains without a legislative reform of silence as it has been demanding for a long time. And let's look at the parts of this urgent legislative monster that you bring us here today, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. The model of aid for the amortisation of feature films set out in the Film Act and managed by the ICAA was configured as a system of ex post facto subsidies, so that in a given year investments made two years earlier were being subsidized; that is, the activity was first carried out and the costs were then justified, recognizing the costs and, finally, the aid was collected. In order to complete the execution of the filming, loans were made from financial institutions whose interests were in turn partially subsidized by the ICAA. This system was essentially perverse, as it was based on budgetary incrementality and the producer, without any legal-budgetary guarantee, expected to receive the aid from resources existing in the year in which the shooting began when the subsidies would actually be charged against the budget for subsequent years. If, as with the crisis, the budget was smaller two years later, it was necessary to go to the figure of the assessment, reporting the aid that was expected to be obtained and thus exposing the investment made two years earlier. This situation has led to the approval by the Government - in locks and bars - of credit supplements such as that provided for in article 7 of the Royal Decree-Law that deals with us. In addition, the formula for calculating the subsidy directly proportional to the income per locker was conceptually questionable and led to fraud of a variety of kinds, such as selling ghost tickets to increase income and thus the subsidy. Therefore, the replacement of this model by one a priori aid on the project is technically necessary and gives the model greater legal-budgetary guarantees. From now on, the aid will be granted before starting the project, so the producer will know in advance how much money counts. In addition, account payments will be made, which should be justified as the development of production progresses. It is also positive that the ICAA and the Tax Agency coordinate to control the excess funding over the EU aid intensity limit, since direct subsidies and tax deductions from corporate tax must be added when calculating this intensity over the total cost of the project. However, it remains to be seen how this coordination will be articulated in practice. However, it cannot be sold as a model change, which is actually a technical improvement of the system, which is necessary, as UPyD has already advocated on previous occasions, and an increase in coordination measures. If the government wanted to help the film industry, it would have had to take the opportunity to reduce VAT on cinema tickets and other shows from 21 % to 10 %, or even the super-reduced 4 %, which is also of extraordinary and urgent need. The Government should change the social security system for artists to improve their retirement, disability, medical lay-offs and unemployment benefits, or it should undertake a tax change and new forms of society that take account of the irregular income of artists. We must also complement the change of model with a greater allocation of budgetary resources not only to cover debts from previous years, but also to ensure that new project grants give real muscle to national cinema and make it competitive abroad, as revealed by the success of cinema policies in our neighbouring country, France. Finally, with regard to cinema, from a legal-budgetary point of view, the nature of the operating or capital subsidies, now regulated in dark reports of the State General Intervention, should be clearly defined in order to determine once and for all how to account for the revenue obtained in the account supporting the aid. This is what the People's Party Government would have to do if it really wanted to take the world of cinema seriously. But not content with not doing so, they add to this royal decree-law a series of extraordinary credit patches to the Ministries of Finance and Public Administration, the Interior, Development, Education, Culture and Sport, Industry, Energy and Tourism, Agriculture, Food and Environment and Economy and Competitiveness and the section on Other Financial Relations with Territorial Entities. There's na, what would that say! Between aid to autonomous communities, means to the units of the State Security Forces and Corpses dedicated to the fight against terrorism, financing of the extraordinary expenses resulting from the sinking of the ship Oleg Naydenov, aid to the PIVE Plan, the drought plan of the river basins of Jucar and Segura and aid to R & D+i, I do not know if I am reading a minor and insufficient modification of the Film Act or a script of a bad film of science fiction, but when I already thought that in this, as I said before, legislative frankenstein could not surprise me anything more, I find that the truce of the cake, the scene behind the final credits, never better said, is that they intend to amend the rules of the income tax on natural persons by establishing in certain cases improvements for the tax treatment of taxpayers affected by the marketing, eye!, of subordinate debt and of preferential shares. It is a sort of 'continue' of very bad taste. Ladies and gentlemen, your urgency, as is clear, is not cinema, it is not culture, and it is not, in the end, doing things right. Its urgency is to patch up a thousand problems and situations with extraordinary credit because it is about to end the legislature and it seems that these issues had remained in the drawer stored and mixed. I'm done. They will not count on UPyD's favorable vote in this urgent legislative monster, which seems to be pulled out of a bad joke rather than a government that cares about people. We will vote against this royal decree-law and ask that it be treated separately, everything in its time, in its form, in its corresponding project and with the seriousness it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u8	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to set out my group's position on Royal Decree-Law 6/2015 of 14 May, amending Law 55/2007 of 28 December 2007 on Cinema. A number of extraordinary credits and credit supplements are granted in the State budget and tax measures are taken. It is a real decree adopted in the full electoral campaign, a few days after the municipal and autonomous elections, used with an electoral opportunism that fortunately, Mr Montoro, has not given much results, but that would only be worth the abstention of my group. The norm approves extraordinary credits of such a diverse nature, it has already been said here, as the transfers to the autonomous communities for the promotion, research, development and innovation, for the fight against terrorism, for the rescue works of the ship sunk in the Canary Islands, for the drought declared in the basins of the Jucar and the Segura and for the Plan PIVE 8. Here the government insists once again that this programme has already had a very important impact in terms of creating and maintaining employment in the sector as well as in terms of the environment and improving energy efficiency. He has already told us the same thing in the seven previous plans and, therefore, we have to tell him once again that we are not very clear whether in terms of employment the resources that are being allocated to the PIVE programme would not be more productive in other economic sectors. However, we are very clear about how ironic the People's Party is when it talks about environmental policy and energy efficiency and it turns out that this government has made every effort throughout the legislature to abandon the impulse of renewable energies, penalising the sector and irresponsibly undermining our country's energy future in favour of the oligopoly of electricity, failing to comply with European directives and destroying thousands of jobs created in the green economy in recent years. In addition, an extra 16 million is allocated to the Institute for Cinematography and Audiovisual Arts, which is responsible for the distribution of cinema grants, whose format changes substantially. We recognise that, in general, the measures incorporated in this royal decree-law by amending the scheme of aid for amortisation in the production of films in the 2007 Act and replacing them with a new line of advance aid for the production of feature films on a project which, as the Minister has said, will coexist with the traditional selective aid for projects. However, the need to continue to work in a consensual manner with the sector with a view to the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law and its development order, in particular with a view to establishing the real objective criteria for the granting of advance aid, and in view of the fact that its determination must take into account aspects which are already very difficult to achieve, such as the economic and financial viability of the project, the dissemination, distribution and marketing plan, the technical solvency of the beneficiary, the Spanish and European cultural relevance, the innovative nature of the project or the socio-economic impact of the investment in Spain. Mr Montoro, these aids come, despite the urgency with which they are taken, late, after years of hard and tense negotiations with the sector and even assuming progress, as I have said, they only propose a modification in the area of amortisation aid when what is really needed, and the Government knows this even if it does not want to address it, is a new legal framework that serves to put forward in a comprehensive way a model that, in turn, takes into account investing more efforts and resources in the promotion and distribution phase of films, abandoning the error of focusing everything on production and also introducing parallel measures for film education. We can therefore consider this as a partial measure which alone will not be sufficient to alleviate the damage already suffered by the harmful cultural policies carried out by the Government in this legislature and which leaves pending aspects claimed by the sector and as necessary as the improvement of the system of tax incentives, equal to those of other cinemas in our environment because those that have been approved are clearly insufficient. Or how is the abolition of the rise in VAT and the application of the reduced rate that continues to be claimed unanimously throughout the sector and with which the Government has already told us that it does not intend to give in - said President Rajoy the other day - despite the fact that the rise in VAT has been one of the measures that has caused the sector the most damage due to the drop in cultural consumption, the impossibility of creating new content, the closure of premises and a significant loss of jobs. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this much-needed aid for cinema in our country, but we believe that it alone is, beyond its electoral character, a patch that will not solve the problem and that if we really want to address it, it must be done through a state pact for culture that includes cinema as a factor of particular importance. But for this we'll have to wait a little longer, not much longer. It is only necessary that citizens speak again in the general elections and allow us to shape a new correlation of forces in the parliamentary arch with which to find the consensus that the People's Party has denied during the legislature both in culture and in many other subjects. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u10	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. Mrs Surroca has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day for the film industry and we would have liked to have been able to debate this issue extensively here today, but only on this issue precisely because of the importance of this royal decree to the film industry. We therefore regret that so many matters are mixed into a real decree-law which is of great interest to this sector. Having said that, and already focusing the debate, since Convergence i Unió we are absolutely convinced that the film sector is a strategic sector that constitutes a fundamental part of our culture, but it is also a basic part of the economy: it is a productive sector that brings added value to the economy and has a strong potential, both present and future. It is, from this twofold point of view, from which my parliamentary group defends and is continually awaiting this sector; and it defends it with measures of support from the administration. So I recall that on 4 September we presented an inquiry to the Government on the situation of the film industry and the need to take urgent measures and ambitious policies to support the sector. We demanded the need for a new model of film financing in the Spanish State that would conform to what the sector and the ministries represented in the commission for film financing, constituted - let us recall - in December 2012; since 2012 this issue is already being discussed. On that occasion, we highlighted the extremely critical situation in the film sector as a result of the widespread economic crisis, aggravated by the very public policies that had been carried out throughout the legislature, such as the increasingly low budgets, the lack of payment of the depreciation owed to producers since 2012, the refusal to apply the tax incentives requested by the sector, the huge increase in cultural VAT from 8 to 21 % or the shortage of financial resources for the sector. At that time, the data told us that there was less filming and collection and that the number of spectators had fallen into bites, resulting in the closure of companies and projection rooms and the consequent loss of jobs. Fortunately, 2014 was closed with a positive balance and a certain optimism in the sector due to the considerable increase in the share of the Spanish film market. Therefore, at this positive moment - we can say so - we understand that thanks also to the effort and creativity of the sector and to the negotiation that has taken place from the government, it has been possible to reach an agreement with the sector in relation to the new funding model, and in this sense it is from where Convergence and Union celebrates it. There are, however, a number of outstanding subjects, Minister, to which I shall refer throughout my speech. The new funding system for cinema is certainly good news. It is perhaps of the few good news for the world of culture that this Government is going to leave us. I am not going to insist on other issues and debates that have already taken place in this House, but I do want to stress that this is one of the few good news that this Government is going to leave for the cultural sector. In any case, it is a measure that was necessary and that, despite the very good reception it has enjoyed in the film sector, is not perfect because it lacks some aspects that our parliamentary group is going to mention. However, it is a first step, a fundamental step and from here we will have to carefully observe how the text on which we are debating today's legislative development is put into practice. The single transitional provision establishes a transitional period between the two financing systems of about three years, which will allow an orderly closure of the current system and financial security, giving coverage to the productions already under way. However, the royal decree also leaves outstanding issues and some of them of great importance. Perhaps the basic question on which, incomprehensiblely, this decree does not deepen is the increase in tax incentives to match us with other cinemas. Our group called for such tax incentives as early as September 2014 by means of a motion resulting from urgent questioning and did so again through amendments to article 36 of the corporate tax bill, which were unfortunately not supported by the People's Group. In Europe and the Western world, the film industry is an economically relevant and very global industry, with great mobility, affecting the large productions that manage hundreds of billions of euros. These major productions are carried out in those states that offer the most attractive policies to support the film industry. Without roundabouts, without attractive tax incentives, without funding aid, without administrative support, producers' investments are looking for other countries of destination, thus losing direct and indirect tax revenue and income from social security contributions from contracted staff. And what is applicable to large productions can be extended to any production outside its budget, which implies the loss of productive tissue in cinematographic activities in which the Spanish State maintained a good position, which is also a competitive position. In view of this situation, it is urgent to take corrective measures in support of film production to promote the recovery of the sector and the increase of high-budget productions, since they often have a powerful tractor effect on the activity of film production. [[The lady]] Nor is this royal decree mention of specific aids to cinematographic productions in languages other than Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fundamental aspect for our parliamentary group. If you remember, we have talked a lot about the bottom, which disappeared with the arrival of the present Government, and not even now, precisely taking advantage of the legislative text that the Government brings us today to discuss its validation, mention is made of it, more of the little value that this Government, especially from the Ministry of Culture, has been granting throughout the legislature to languages other than Spanish. Our parliamentary group deeply regrets the disappearance of this fund, which was provided for in the State General Budgets, and which is nothing more than a reflection of what the Film Act provides for, was to enforce the law. Therefore, the Government is failing to comply with the law with the disappearance of the bottom and today we had the opportunity to recover it in that royal decree-law that we are talking about. We insist, that is one of the major outstanding issues. With regard to the new model of film financing, which goes beyond the extension of the obligation to report on the qualification of companies providing video services on demand and of website holders offering ordered and classified lists of links to other websites or servers where cinematographic or audiovisual works are hosted, is the true amendment to Law 55/2007. This new model is based on the change in the aid system. From now on, the financing system will accompany the production process, discarding ex post facto aid as hitherto. In short, we understand that this model change is important, it is also positive and reflects long negotiations with the sector, the sector itself has received it with praise and good words and, therefore, our parliamentary group will support it. This project also has two outstanding subjects, two more. First of all, Minister, where is the new law of patronage? Where is that law so promised by your Government, so promised during election campaigns? Minister, you know perfectly well that not only the sector of culture but many others have been waiting for this project that you have hidden in a drawer for a long time, if it exists, it does not even exist by the gestures that it is doing to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u12	Mrs. Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u13	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u14	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u15	Finally, there are other issues that have nothing to do with the film industry, and I will refer to them very, very quickly. The PIVE Plan also approves an extraordinary project, we applaud the initiative. The car sector is an important sector, but this is not the only industrial policy to be pursued by the Government. The industry is much more and so far, with the exception of the automotive sector, has not been on the government's agenda. On the approval of various extraordinary credits in the budgets of the Ministries of the Interior, Development, Agriculture and Economy and Competitiveness, we will simply say that in relation to those linked to the financing of investments of certain autonomous communities we are in favour of the Government providing them with financing,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u16	Mrs. Surroca, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u17	I'm done. ... But we are not in favour of the discretion with which they are doing so, giving flexibility to certain autonomous communities, which have failed to meet the requirements for access to such aid. In short, our parliamentary group is in favour of this royal decree. We're sorry it was done this way. We understand that it would have to be treated as a bill so that we could all make our contributions and improvements on all outstanding issues and subjects in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. Socialist Group, Mr Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance, have you seen the film The Minimum Island? Haven't you seen the movie? It's a shame, it's a very good Spanish film, I suppose you've seen it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u20	Mr. Elorza, don't ask him questions that you can't answer unless it's a rhetorical resource, which is what I understand it is.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u21	Obviously, it's a rhetorical resource. Madam President, don't cut me, which is elementary; let me play a little bit. I was going to tell you that if you've seen her you'll agree with me that maybe you identify with the role of the bad cop. It's strong, huh? I would say, following on with that film, that the good cop, in quotes, is Mr Wert, but Mr Wert, who is the minister of culture, of the branch, is absent, and in the end the Socialist Party is right when he said already three years ago and it is clear that to talk about cinema we had to talk to you, that we could not talk about cinema and the situation of cinema with the minister of the branch, not even with the secretary of state, nor with the ICAA, which has had a tremendous crisis that in the middle of the legislature caused his director to resign, by the way, unexplained resignation. I say all this because it explains that in the end, in a tailor's drawer, as a rocket to start an electoral campaign, you bring here some measures in relation to the financing of Spanish cinema that arrive late, because, I remind you, your minister, the absent, the permanently absent - because you, Mr Montoro, are not a film man -, promised that on January 1, 2014 would come into force this type of measures that were already consensual since it was agreed to create the joint commission at the San Sebastián Film Festival, in September 2012, but have not fulfilled, come two years late, to the point that the positive part of these measures - which have it - differed on January 1, 2016. Bad trick: four years lost. Moreover, the contribution of EUR 16 million to the extraordinary credit is only a part of what you have pocketed - not you, sorry, Finance - as a result of the increase in VAT from 8 % to 21 %. We have done the calculations and the tables and only what you have generated with the increase in VAT would make up for these 16 and many more millions to pay what you have not wanted to pay properly and at the time to the amortizations of the films of the years 2012 and 2013, which you will now pay late through this operation to reassure the sector and make you even applaud for 16 miserable millions that you draw from VAT revenues. Therefore, it is an operation that starts from these bases. We cannot talk about a new model of financing but about a step, a positive, late step, in the configuration, eye, of something else that has been explained here by the interveners and it is whether or not we will have an integral model for the financing and the impulse of Spanish cinema, of the Spanish film industry, and also the impulse and development of cinema in its cultural dimension. I'm sure you're not interested in this. The measures that are taken are measures that are delayed to shut down the cannons that you have left to the amortization of 2012 and 2013, but everything else differs to the year 2016, with which you will have to start practically again. These measures do not really give stability to the film industry because of all that is to be addressed and discussed. We are discussing cinema here today when you, the government, did not want to appear on the Culture Committee in the last two years, which is said to be easy. In two years the minister, the secretary of state and the director of the ICAA have not been present to talk about this quietly in the Committee on Culture and to see to form consensus or to provide criteria such as those provided here by the interveners, criteria of great quality and of great content, with which we agree to a great extent. So hurry and run we have to do it here today in this tailor drawer of the royal decree. Why do we say that this last-minute decision with the sector and with Fapae in particular does not or does not constitute an integral model for financing and boosting the sector? Because there are, as has been pointed out, many things on the sidelines. For example, the most important thing for some, for producers, would be tax relief. They're insufficient. You have read them very well, with some error in some percentage - a number has been skipped - but they are very insufficient in comparison with other European countries, I do not say with the United States anymore. Therefore, this remains an outstanding subject: tax breaks to activate the film industry much more, the production of films in Spanish territory and production aid. There is a pending debate as to whether the model should be based on direct aid rather than tax relief or vice versa. It is a very interesting debate, because, according to political ideology, one can decide on one or the other position: more direct aid or less and, instead, more tax relief. This debate, which cannot be held here, is of great interest. In addition to this, there is cultural VAT, on which I have already said enough, I am not going to repeat myself. The Socialist Group also understands that you are failing to comply with the commitment of three years ago to introduce a law of sponsorship, which has much to do with incentives to investors from all sectors in the film industry. It also seems to us that there is a lack of legislation to promote micro-mecenanism, which has succeeded in making certain productions of the audiovisual world a reality. In addition, the criteria must be pursued to the maximum extent possible. Regulatory development and order are indeed ahead of us, but we have raised a number of issues in this royal decree that concern us. For example, we want those objective criteria to truly incorporate support for the diversity of productions, support through a specific section for author's films, minority but quality films, compliance - as an indispensable condition for receiving aid - with the working conditions of artists in the fields of labour legislation, wages and social security. Another important issue is autonomous productions, productions in another official language, in addition to Spanish, which must be protected and established with a specific criterion and quantity for consideration. A fundamental issue that does not yet appear at all in this comprehensive model that we demand is the role of public and private television in helping the film world. There the list of matters is extremely long. You cannot forget that within the four working tables that were created in the joint committee, we only see the results of two - and in part - the results of two other working tables are missing. As far as television is concerned, we could talk about less purchase by public television of non-Community films; in antenna rights, price fixing in particular, because there are abuses; incentives for co-production between televisions; control of the investment share of private televisions in cinema, an unrealized control - we do not know if they put 2%, 3% or 5% legal -; broadcast of Spanish films at important times on public television, etc. In short, the attitude of prepotence on private television with regard to the producers, issues that are important within this integral impulse to the world of Spanish cinema. Another issue that does not seem to be addressed in these measures of the royal decree, which are very just, is what happens with the creation of a state agency of cinematography, absolutely necessary, in part for the functions that are not being developed by the ICAA nor of course by its ministry, that of the euros, that of economic control, of private television and other issues. In short, we point out seven aspects that are not collected at all within this cinema model, so called with excessive optimism by the ministry and by some intervener. We need - and here we agree with La Izquierda Plural - a great state pact for cinema and we need a great consensus in terms of democratic participation with the sectors, but in order for that participation and consensus to be carried out and not for four years to go astray, as is the case, because you buy wills with a last-minute money simply to pay for what you owe, for nothing else, because the budget that you manage in the ICAA is less than half, is 2.5 times less than the budget that left as an inheritance, in quotes, the previous government of President Zapatero. I will make one last point, because since there are several issues in this box, I have to refer to one of the questions that do not relate to the world of cinema, and it is that, in relation to the extraordinary credits for the hydrographic confederations of Jucar and Segura and the transfer of water rights in the Segura, if we had presented this question in a specific text, our vote would be in favour of it, firstly because it is an extraordinary credit caused by urgent needs which, although they respond to drought, it is no less true that the ministry has also reduced investment in the Valencian Community by more than 80%, from an earlier investment of 435 million euros per year to just over 88 million euros, with cuts in modernization, irrigation and disabling.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u22	Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u23	Secondly - I finish already - while in the Region of Murcia they take special measures to derive desalinated water to the Cartagena Canal, in Alicante they keep the desalinators of Torrevieja and Mutxamel closed. Thirdly, as the decree itself acknowledges, in the case of Segura the situation has also been aggravated by the new regulation of Tajo-Segura. Fourthly, I must finally describe the delay in implementing these measures, which have been taken with a year's delay as well...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u24	Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u25	... and it is not yet known what specific investments they involve. In short, this also comes late and bad, but it is necessary and we will support it. I think you haven't seen the minimum island, I recommend it: Guadalquivir marshes. I'm sure when you see her, we'll talk to a coffee shop about how you look like the bad cop. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u26	Mr. Elorza, I have seen the film and the minister doesn't look like that cop.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u27	Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u28	No, fascist cop who kills no, no, Mr. Elorza. [[Mr Elorza González speaks words that are not perceived]] No, no, Mr. Elorza. Don't play with words, that's not good. For the People's Group, Mrs Torrado. [[Mr. Elorza Gonzalez repronounces words that are not perceived]] No, no, Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Government is working on an important reform agenda by paving the way for the consolidation of a more competitive and flexible economy, ultimately towards the recovery that our country needs, an economy in which cinema is of fundamental importance, but as in many other sectors of our country, when the People's Government took over, the film industry was dying, could be put into an obsolete system, a system that, in order for everyone to understand, forced the producers to be brutally indebted, causing financing costs that had to be maintained for two years, until finally the Government's aid arrived, interests that were eaten alive, any benefits and credits that not everyone could achieve. All Spaniards know how hard it is to get them and what comes to add two years of interest. Well, the desire of this government to save the Spanish film industry is such that, immediately, nothing more comes to the government in 2012, a joint commission of different ministries with competence in this field was set up: Presidency, Industry, Economy, Finance, Culture, a committee in which, of course, representatives of the film and audiovisual industry, private television and the public sector were represented. The objective was nothing other than an in-depth study of the situation and the definition of a new funding model to change what had led this industry to a critical situation. This new royal decree addresses a priori a system of aid which is going to bring about a radical change in order to contribute to the establishment of a sustainable fabric of cultural creation, as it aims to eliminate the system of aid for amortisation in the production of cinema in order to be replaced by a new line of advance aid for the production of feature films on the project. What does that mean? No more or less than these new aids will allow the progressive financing of cinematographic productions during their development, that is, as demonstrated and demanded by the sector, because this government listens and much, the money will be given at the time the work is carried out, contrary to what happened with the old amortization aids, which were called two years after the film's premiere proving to be an unsustainable model. If someone had the idea of making a film and needed support, which is usually the usual thing, they were forced first to go to the banks to ask for credit; to grant it they had to have good backing, then the less powerful producers had it raw, and then let go of two years, paying interest, of course, so that when the aid finally came they had to allocate it to cover the biggest holes, those of the bank's interests. It was a system that clearly favored those who were already well placed closing the passage to oxygen that could save something as precious as our cinema. Once again, this Government has heard and heard everyone, including those who are less heard, those who before could not create because no one trusted them, no one supported them. The problem is when the strongest make noise not to let others be heard. From now on, producers will be able to reduce the financial costs of films - the money that only benefits lenders - by more than 15% and thus allocate the aid directly to production. So that then they say that this government only thinks about bankers. [[Rumors]] In addition, in order to give financial security to the sector, a transitional period of three years is set, during which the call for these new aid and the previous aid for depreciation will coincide. This new line of aid aims to adapt to the life cycle of the film investment project, in order to improve the financing of these companies and reduce their costs. A clear manifestation of how the new system is going to work is that the call will determine the percentage of payment corresponding to each of the stages of production execution, for example in the presentation of the project or at the start of the shooting. Advance aid shall be granted automatically through the application of objective evaluation criteria, which shall address, inter alia, the economic and financial viability of the project, the dissemination, distribution, marketing plan, technical solvency, Spanish and European cultural relevance, the innovative nature of the project and the socio-economic impact of investment in Spain. In addition, given that there is another type of support for projects aimed at encouraging new talents that may arise in the Spanish film scene and that this new decree is being developed in order to address the current problem of cinema from its most industrial point of view, in the consideration of objective criteria, in addition to taking into account the promotion of diversity and the promotion of culture, productions whose aim is to achieve significant dissemination and commercial success will be the priority. The change in the model of film financing that we are discussing here today began on consensus with the sector within the framework of the joint film and audiovisual commission that I was talking about at the beginning of my speech, but this royal decree that we are discussing today is not the only action that has been carried out for this sector throughout the government of Mariano Rajoy. The first results of the meetings and agreements taken in this commission were the amendments introduced by Law 27/2014 of 27 November of the Tax on Societies, which, in addition to lowering this tax by 2 percentage points, increased the percentage of deduction for investment in cinematographic productions and audiovisual series to 20% for the first million euros and also created an incentive for foreign shoots in our country. The first call for this automatic aid for the production of feature films on the project will be in 2016, hence the urgency, at least the urgency for the government, as well as for the People's Parliamentary Group, where we think about those who are going to receive that money, who are already waiting for it to start their ideas. That is why the socialist representative has made such an unfortunate comparison. This royal decree also has as its second purpose the granting of several extraordinary credits and credit supplements. The autonomous communities will receive extraordinary credits worth 168 million euros to finance investments, as well as a credit supplement of 17,817 million granted by the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, taking into account the seriousness of the new terrorist threats facing our society, the Ministry of the Interior will have an extraordinary credit of 10 million euros that will be destined to enhance the technological means and information and communication systems of the units and State Security Forces and Forces dedicated to the fight against jihadist terrorism. The catastrophe of fire and subsequent sinking of the Russian ship in the vicinity of the Canary coast has unfortunately been an absolutely exceptional and very large occurrence, an accident in which, thanks to the actions of the security and rescue forces, personal misfortunes were avoided, but which has moved us all lovers of nature and all lovers of the sea, because the magnitude of what has happened has necessitated the implementation of exceptional measures to combat pollution of the marine environment and the protection of the environment, as well as the cleaning of marine waters. The adoption of this royal decree will mean that the Ministry of Development receives a credit of €9.6 million for the financing of the extraordinary expenses resulting from the sinking and the contaminant threat that occurred. In addition, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport will be able to carry out a credit supplement of EUR 16 million for the Institute of Cinematography and Audiovisual Arts to increase the Fund for the Protection of Cinematography. It will also allow the provision of an extraordinary credit of 225 million euros, promoted by the Ministry of Industry, to finance the eighth call for aid to the efficient vehicle incentive programme, the PIVE 8 programme, a new call supported by the positive effects of the previous seven on the trade balance in the automotive sector, its auxiliary industries and related businesses such as dealers and insurance, which has led to a significant boost to employment in this sector and the reduction of CO2 and harmful pollutants to the environment. [[Applauds]] There is also something that affects my land, the Valencian Community, our land, Mr Lleonart. Does it really seem like a bad film that takes a very important amount for everything that has to do with the effects of the drought that has suffered for years from the river basins of Jucar and Segura? For in order to meet the needs that the agricultural sector requires the Ministry of the Environment has provided an extraordinary credit of 20 million for the Jucar basin and of 30 million euros for that of the Segura, which gives a clearly urgent character to the adoption of this decree, which includes credit supplements for the amount of 95 million that the Ministry of Economy also proposes for the State plan of scientific and technical research and innovation in order to maintain our level of R & D+i and to be able to access the best conditions of the European funds. Finally, by demonstrating once again the sensitivity of this Government to those affected by preference and subordinated debt, it is proposed to amend the legislation of the IRPF to improve its tax treatment. These changes will allow a single return on capital to be calculated, which will be negative in most cases. And, given the judgments that have declared null and void those contracts of subordinated debt or preferred holdings, it will be possible for citizens who request the rectification of their IRPF self-liquidations from previous years to obtain the return of undue income, even if there are cases in which the right to request the refund has already been prescribed. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, this is a single measure by the Government embodied in this royal decree which will mean a considerable improvement for sectors as different as cinema or agriculture, the economy of the autonomous administrations or the victims of the preferences, the prevention of our security and that of our environment or the encouragement of the renewal of the mobile park and the progress in research. Now all of you with your vote decide whether or not you are in favour of these reforms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Torrado. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2015, OF 14 MAY, CONCERNING EXTRAORDINARY CREDITS AND A SUPPLEMENT OF IMPORTED CREDIT OF 856.440.673.35 EUROS IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BUDGET, TO ACCEPT THE PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS CORRESPONDING TO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENT PROGRAMMES AND THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES. [[File number 130/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u31	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 7/2015 of 14 May, granting extraordinary credits and a credit supplement in the amount of 856,440,673.35 euros in the budget of the Ministry of Defence to cover the payment of obligations relating to special arms programmes and the performance of other activities of the department. The Minister has the floor for your presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise again to present to the House the Royal Decree-Law 7/2015, approved by the Council of Ministers on 14 May. It authorizes extraordinary appropriations and a high credit supplement, above EUR 856 million, in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. It is an instrumental rule, as it is limited to crediting, but credits intended to pay contractual obligations for special weapons programmes to meet the needs of the General Ammunition Plan and for the realization of works at the Central Military Hospital of Defense Gómez Ulla, in the framework of actions related to last year's Ebola outbreak. The adoption of this royal decree-law is of particular importance for Spain from two different but complementary perspectives: from the point of view of national defence and from the point of view of the military industry. These are two areas that this Government cannot and does not want to neglect, because they are essential for the present and future of our country, a country that wants, that needs to have modern, professional and effective armed forces, a country that cannot neglect its defence needs in a world that faces increasing global challenges, a country that also fulfils the commitments made with its Western partners and with the suppliers of industries and a country that, of course, is proud of an armed forces that are fully integrated into the international concert and that are extraordinarily well valued by the humanitarian and peacekeeping and security missions that they carry out in different parts of the world. From the point of view of national defence, the Government believes that Spain must be able to modernise its arms and defence materials, in so far as the current economic and budgetary situation allows, obviously always within the framework of the spending restriction that has uniquely characterized the current legislature and that we must continue to maintain. The Ministry of Defence has experienced, like the others, austerity policies in spending, as - I insist - it has done all the ministries of the Government of Spain, but it has also had to respond to the payment of commitments made in previous years, in the same way as other ministries have done. In particular, thanks to these investments, the commitments made between the Member States of the European Union in the development of the common security and defence policy to assume the tasks listed in Article 28 of the Treaty of Lisbon and the international commitments made by Spain through the NATO Defence Capabilities Initiative, subsequently redefined as commitments of the Prague Capabilities. In this context is the extraordinary credit of 856,440,673.35 euros intended to meet the annual commitments resulting from the Ministry's special arms programmes. These special programmes have a funding system based on advances from the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism for research and development. The payment of the acquisitions is made from the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which is when the manufacturer returns the advances to the Treasury. The programmes, both because of their economic volume and because of their industrial and technological complexity, represent the most relevant acquisitions of weapons systems carried out by the Ministry of Defence. The existence of the crisis cannot become a populist and demagogic argument to neglect an area of action that affects the present and the future of the citizens, much more than some want us to believe when they despise the importance of investment in the defence of Spain. On the other hand, we can now appreciate the economic benefits of the various initiatives of the Ministry of Defence to re-engineer and renegotiate these special arms programmes. Indeed, the actions carried out have allowed to generate savings of around 8 billion euros after having lowered the total projected cost - which amounted to more than 37 billion euros - to a quantity therefore close to 29 billion euros. However, the effects of the re-planning make it difficult to generate an accurate annual forecast of the amount to be allocated to the fulfilment of these commitments, and this is why the extraordinary credit has been chosen to cover the annual payments. It is the system we are using throughout the legislature. It said, ladies and gentlemen, that this extraordinary credit is of great importance from the point of view of national defence, as it allows our Armed Forces to reach an operating standard sufficient to respond to and deal with the risks and threats relating to the defence of Spanish national sovereignty. But it is also of great importance from the point of view of the development of domestic industry. Special arms programmes have provided an important incentive for the strategic and leading industrial sector which generates more than 20,000 highly skilled direct jobs. It is an intensive sector in R & D+i, which exports and also generates patents applicable in other fields outside the arms field. In fulfilling our commitments to this sector, in addition to insisting on the solvency and credibility of our country, we are collaborating with the future of a highly qualified industry, but which, due to the crisis, is going through a delicate situation. As your lords know, Royal Decree-Law 10/2014 of 1 August 2014 granted an extraordinary credit to the Ministry of Defence, for an amount close to 884 million euros for special arms programmes, was appealed to the Constitutional Court by more than fifty deputies of this House. To generate legal certainty we propose that the royal decree-law that we are now submitting to the validation of the House is treated as a bill, also giving security to payment to suppliers. In this way, we strengthen the viability of companies and help ensure the quality of employment they generate. As I told you at the beginning of my intervention, in addition to the special arms programmes, this royal decree-law also collects an extraordinary credit of EUR 6 million to meet the additional requirements of the Ammunition Plan of the Armed Forces that had not been contemplated in the regular exercise, as well as a credit supplement of EUR 4 million for the continuation of the renovation work of plant 22 of the Central Defence Hospital Gómez Ulla as a high-level hospital isolation unit. As is known this remodeling plan in the aforementioned health center was launched during the onset of the Ebola crisis last year, and with it is intended to enhance the capacity to respond to possible outbreaks of this disease, and others of similar character, strengthening the means available and establishing infrastructures to meet possible future needs, such as hospital admission of infectious patients. With regard to the extraordinary credits and credit supplements approved in Royal Decree-Law 7/2015, for the Ammunition Plan and for the actions related to the remodeling of the Gómez Ulla Hospital, the needs to which these credits meet do not constitute obligations of the non-discretionary administration - between non-discretionary quotes - in the budgetary sense, but which is also concerned - such as those of Royal Decree-Law 6/2015 - to enable the carrying out of actions that fall within the scope of the discretion proper to the action of government. Consequently, funding with the Contingency Fund is not possible and is therefore financed with public debt. With regard to the provision for special arms programmes, the purpose of the provision is to pay commitments entered into in previous years, so that it is not intended to cover unforeseen needs, and therefore the provisions of article 50.1 of the General Budget Act with regard to funding from the Contingency Fund do not apply. As a result, the extraordinary credit is financed by public debt, which requires the processing of a rule of law, in accordance with article 13.4 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The legal basis for the extraordinary credits and credit supplements approved in both royal decrees-laws is found in article 55 of the General Budget Act, which establishes that this procedure must be carried out when, from the budget of the State, expenditure is to be incurred which cannot be delayed until the following financial year, and there is no adequate credit. In addition, the circumstances of extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86 of the Constitution are present, and the Government has had to make use of the power contained in that article, and has had to approve the royal decree-law that is presented for validation before this House. I am confident that, if not all the groups, the majority of them - of the Members - understand the importance of investments for the modernization of our Armed Forces, for national defence, and for Spanish industry, and that certain positions that call themselves anti-militarists, completely out of date, can be overcome at once in the face of the global security challenges we face. In that confidence I ask Congress to validate this royal decree-law. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u33	Thank you, Minister. He called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group, so Mr López Garrido has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I was hoping today that Mr Morenes and not Mr Montoro would be sitting there, who seems to be the super minister who is good for everything: for the Minister of the Economy, for the Minister of Defence; perhaps it is an advance of a forthcoming ministerial remodelling, where Mr Montoro is intended to occupy the Ministry of Defence and is being trained here this morning in the Chamber with this decree-law; decree-law on the other hand usual, that of all years, although on this occasion a little before the summer - which is where they used to place it - the decree-law of special arms programmes, perhaps because they are thinking of an early dissolution of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate, or because they want to remove it - this may seem like an unpopular decision - from the elections. Finally, for whatever reasons, the truth is that you demonstrate by this that you are addicted to the decree law. You are narcotized by the decree law as a government formula that avoids parliamentary control, and also on such an important issue as special weapons programs. It is a matter of particular relevance, a controversial and controversial issue, and with many angles, about an armament that was commissioned when Mr Morenes was Secretary of State in the Aznar Government, which in large part this armament is not useful at the moment, in the time of the age of drones and international missions, and which would have required a much smarter treatment in this legislature, a higher treatment. However, the management of the Government on these special arms programmes in this legislature has been the history of a budgetary and economic failure: it is the burden of the Ministry of Defence's budget, and a political failure, because the Government and the Ministry of Defence have been unable to achieve the minimum consensus with parliamentary groups. We expected Mr Morenes, who is a man who comes from the arms industry, who would have been able to renegotiate or reprogram these special arms programmes properly. We do not know that there is any kind of renegotiation in this regard similar to that which countries such as France, Italy and Germany have made, and this makes it extremely difficult for future projects to be approached. There are future projects which are interesting to examine as is the case of the vehicle 8x8 or the case of unmanned aircraft, but of course, not solving the past makes it difficult to deal with those future problems on which we would have liked Mr Morenes to have explained - I do not know if Mr Montoro will have any knowledge about this - what happens to these future projects, which are quite conditioned by not solving the substance of the problem of special arms programmes, which therefore affect the operation of the Armed Forces and the security itself of the Spanish industry, as well as research, development and innovation. The only thing Mr Morenes has managed to do is order payments as a good accountant and as a treasurer, nothing more, but of course nothing to go to the bottom of the issue that has deeply divided the House, which are the special arms programmes and their inadequate treatment by the government. Here are the special weapons programmes as a slab and as a huge weight that is making it difficult for other activities to take place within the defence, which has made it difficult and difficult for the training, maintenance of the material, and the immediate operation of the Armed Forces, which are conditioned, blocked and collapsed by that enormous weight of the special weapons programmes, and is therefore not an instrument of modernization of the Spanish Armed Forces, and has not been able to serve precisely for that reason. It is also a political and profound failure, because the Government has not wanted to approach the parliamentary groups at any time to reach agreement on this. We were promised at the beginning that there would be an agreement with the groups, they were going to call us to see how this matter was dealt with, and we find ourselves in the summer of 2012 with a decree law - the first of the four, this is the fourth, which is always the same model -, with established amounts, already known, and logically what the Government has obtained has been a permanent amendment of all parliamentary groups on special arms programmes, which is precisely a matter that should have had much more consensus. The Government has not given up changing a coma at all, and it has not at all been concerned to approach the parliamentary groups in order to obtain that necessary consensus, and it is not because we have a non-constructive attitude. The Socialist Group - I speak on behalf of it - has had a constructive attitude at all times, specifically in the field of defence as a matter of State, and it has been seen, for example, in the Military Life Observatory, in agreements in the military disciplinary regime, partly in the Military Penal Code, in support of international missions or in the impetus to industry. Yesterday in the Defence Committee we had an example of our position with regard to support, for example, for the A-400M programme, but in the special arms programmes the Government did not want to change anything at all, and it has fled the agreement with the groups, as today the Minister of Defence has fled from this Chamber, which is not exactly a very military virtue of not being able to sit there, and to face the position of the groups when we are contradicting that decree law which should have defended, not you, Mr Montoro, but the Minister of Defence, Mr Morenes, who has fled this Chamber today. [[Applauds]] The expression of that policy, of that failure, of that double political failure is the formula of the decree-law for special arms programmes, which is like a constant slap in Parliament on an issue of such economic relevance and for defence policy. It is no use for you to say that it will then be dealt with as a bill, because the decree-law is already in force. You have already been able to make payments from the moment the decree-law was passed, and the decree-law formula remains as unconstitutional as a subsequent bill or not. They should not have passed this decree-law. If they were going to do it as a bill, why did they bring him in? Why did they pass a decree-law if they were then to make a bill? I imagine someone has finally warned you that this is a serious problem affecting the security of the defence industry, but the fact is that the decree-law is already in force. I don't know what you guys have done so far, but you may have paid for it by now. It's in effect. This is a mere validation. Then there will be a bill that we'll see how it ends in this legislature, but the decree-law is still there. And they didn't just do it this time. They carry the entire legislature trying to deceive Parliament with general state budgets where they do not include huge amounts of defence spending, which they then include in a budget - in quotes - later in the summer: special arms programmes. But not only that: also payments for missions abroad, autonomous agencies linked to defence, military R & D+i. All this is taken out of the budget in December, surely to hide the deficit from the European Union, and put it in the next summer where it no longer computes for deficit. In this way there is a pretence of deception on the European Union at this twofold stage of the general defence budgets, which is a novelty that you have invented in this legislature. In short, it is the lack of transparency. Instead of going to the budget or to a bill, it is to present, with all boldness, year after year, a decree law on very important amounts of defence expenses, violating the Spanish Constitution, because that decree law, however much later developed as a bill, has already violated the Spanish Constitution, because a decree-law for planned expenses cannot be made. It is a deliberate, conscious violation, using the roll of the absolute majority, with contempt for the House and the citizens. It is the same attitude that the Ministry of Defence has had in this legislature when groups of workers directly or indirectly linked to defence have addressed it, who have had labour conflicts and found no reception in the Ministry of Defence, or very late. The case of the workers of the bases of Rota or Morón, the bases of Viator and Cordoba, the 55 farewells of the factory of Trubia, in Asturias, in General Dynamics Santa Barbara that has given rise to a letter of five Asturian deputies, which I hope the Minister of Defense is worthy to answer. Citizens are much more aware of what you believe in these things, and you made it known to them on Sunday, Mr Montoro. It cannot be ruled on the basis of decree-laws, gazing the opposition even in matters that have nothing to do with a treatment through a decree-law. We have never denied - yesterday was another expression in the Defence Committee of this - the need to pay the obligations. But we did demand an open parliamentary debate, which is proper to Parliament, not the closed debates proper to the decree-laws, which take place in a few minutes once a year. They have abused their absolute majority in these years, and they have brought us to an appeal of unconstitutionality to which you have referred, Mr Montoso, that only the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this House is willing to be able to lead and present. And after this procedure, I already announce that we will present another remedy of unconstitutionality by this decree-law, already in force, regardless of whether it is then processed as a bill or not. There's nowhere to take it, like there's nowhere to take all the previous decree-laws you've made. There is no urgency, because you artificially create this urgency when you do not place the appropriate amounts in the General Budgets of the State, and then there is the cynical argument that, as it is not in the General Budgets of the State, you have to make a decree-law or you have to fix an extraordinary credit. You have obviously created that need, and of course there is no urgency for you to bring here a decree-law when you could have saved that decree-law, and brought a bill from the very beginning, which you have tried to arrange in a bit of a hurry and running - certainly yesterday afternoon - to say that you will then process it as a bill. All this leads to people thinking they have something to hide. Why this authoritarian and unconstitutional formula of the decree-law and give rise to surely unnecessary suspicions? Certainly in no extraordinary need, as the Constitution says. The opinion of the Council of State I have here, page 37, is very clear. It says the opinion that has been made for this decree-law: With regard to special arms programmes, the purpose of the credit is to pay commitments entered into in previous years, so it is not a question of meeting unforeseen needs. It is very clear: It is not a question of meeting unforeseen needs. That is, they are intended needs, and it is therefore impossible to accept a decree-law for intended needs. The Council of State says so, and, Mr Montoro, even your Directorate-General for Budgets says so in the report accompanying this decree-law: They are absolutely foreseen needs. We are therefore faced with a blunt decision, which is not free, which is not free for the industry itself. Surely this that you have done, fast and running, to say: but then we will make a bill, it is precisely by the call of the industry. I was called by the representatives of the industry last year to show their concern about that unconstitutionality remedy that we presented, as a result of a unconstitutional decree-law. We had an obligation to bring such an appeal on account of that unconstitutionality. They called me concerned about the insecurity of the industry to have pending an appeal of unconstitutionality that can result in a nullity of that decree-law - I hope the Constitutional Court will decide this - with the consequences on the payments made, which we do not know what the Constitutional Court can say. It is not that we go in that direction, but it could happen, and it is a sign of irresponsibility again to present a decree-law - for the fourth time - when you know perfectly well that it is a decree-law directly unconstitutional, of book, something that any lawyer very easily can tell you, and that of course the lawyers of the Government and the Ministry of Defense sure know. It is an exercise of irresponsibility that gives no results to anyone, not even to you, as has recently been proven. We are going to vote no to this decree-law which is typical of a policy without projects, without objectives, isolationist, without the ability to extend agreements in such a transcendental matter for the defence of our country and for Spanish industry, because the Constitution, Minister, defends itself by following it; this is how the Constitution is defended, by following it, and of course it is not what you have done in these four years with the decree-laws of the special arms programmes. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. Mr Baldoví has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are things that never change: when the heat starts, it happens! The traditional decree that increases the departure to pay arms. Sometimes it is in August, in full holiday, this year has been the week after the elections, to see if it goes unnoticed with the topic of pacts and constitutions of the municipalities, and while the rate of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion continues to advance, and already represents 29.2% of the population, it was 26% in 2010 - inheritance received that we will receive the following - 35 % less than thirty-five years, and also retrogress the average income per household. The Arope index, which has three variables: severe material deprivation, low employment intensity or the risk of poverty, according to these data, of 46.5 million, some 13.5 million people would meet one of the three criteria that define this concept. They are chilling data that show the stupendous failure of his Government. The PP has become a manufacturer of poverty and inequality, and in the meantime today we are discussing an extraordinary credit from the defence budget. Is this what people are waiting for? Is that what people want? Are missiles, frigates, shells, or social policies, welfare policies urgent? Are there contractual commitments? For we will have to say that they will have to wait, those who cannot wait are the people who have absolutely nothing, no income, 770,000 households, in a year there are one million more people at risk of poverty, allocating 856 million euros for armaments should be able to wait, those families cannot wait, they cannot wait any longer. You have demonstrated over and over again who you govern and what interests your decisions govern, where your priorities are, and today you have done so again, with a schedule of payments that mortgages the ministry's accounts until 2030; until 2030. If, moreover, you already have a payment schedule, why was it not reflected in the general budgets? Doing so by royal decree is a fraud, because you already knew you had to make that payment. I'm done. Let's talk about heredity received. Who signed these arms purchase commitments? Was it Mr. Aznar's government? How long will this arms purchase program last for us? Thirty billion? That said, simply immoral. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Fernández has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, once again we have a new royal decree to increase the revenue of the Ministry of Defence by EUR 856 million in public debt, and once again we obviously have to vote against it, because, as you say, there are some who cannot understand this issue. Since you took the fashion of every year to make a royal decree-law to, by this way, increase the revenues of defense, you already carry 4.5 billion euros contributed to this ministry. But while you do this you sell us in the campaign of the debate of the General Budgets of the State that the Government, which is a government that is at the disposal of people and wants to make social budgets, reduces in defense, with which, as we have already told you on some occasion in the budget debate, you make a budget trap - following some of your expressions is - because you bring us by urgency and as extraordinary something that is ordinary, because if it were not ordinary you could not be doing the same spending every year. Moreover - you say it yourself and say it the explanatory statement - this is to face an expenditure of 37 billion euros until 2025-2030. I mean, it's a commitment made. You are going to throw balls out because it is a commitment made by others, according to you. The truth is that at a time like this, where a government should put people ahead of any other issue, you continue to invest in arms, you continue to invest, as you say, in the modernization of the army. It turns out that - and not the Galego Nationalist Block says it but very serious reports that exist - the Spanish state is the second after the United States that invests most in military research. On the other hand - also according to serious reports - it is the first state in the world to invest least in civil research. Therefore, Minister, this government looks like a militarist government, rather than a government, as you want to sell in the general budget campaign, which wants to meet people's needs. Of course, this is false in view of these budgets and the many cuts they have made and have left to the public services in the conditions under which they are. Notice, they have increased the budget of the Ministry of Defence by 4.5 billion euros in these years that they have been ruling, and from 2011 to 2014 they have reduced the payment of benefits to the unemployed by 5.5 billion euros, and that has increased the unemployed in more than 320,000 people, but instead they have left out of all coverage to many of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u39	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u40	I'm done, Madam President. You say that some of us are not going to understand this because we are sleepy - said upset, I don't know if it would be a lapsus linguae or at the end it was what you were thinking - those we are anti-militarists or anti-increase of military spending. Yes, we are anti-militarists because we are anti-war, because we believe in peace and because we believe that the most important weapon to guarantee peace is a sharing of wealth that will enable humanity to survive. Evidently, this is not nighttime; this may be a utopia but it is a brilliant utopia to be able to work and defend people's right and not to arm the armies to make wars. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the same group, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am somewhat outraged that they lie to us again; in fact, they lie repeatedly to us and to the citizens year after year. We have already warned that they were lying in the debate on the General Budgets of the State. I quote, if I may, a paragraph of this same Member's intervention in the debate on the General Budgets of the State when I addressed Minister Morenes and said to him: One wonders what the budget will finally be implemented. We could fuck you and I - I told Minister Morenes - although you won't want to. I think it'll be about 800 million more, and maybe we'll be short. Well, today you give us the reason. In fact, we even stay a little short, because what you bring us here today is an increase of almost 850 million euros. For us this is a real shame because we are already engaged in a debt of more than 30 billion euros in the purchase of military material, which means that each citizen has to assume 600 euros in debt. Moreover, at no time have they been able to question this spiral, this perverse equation, especially taking into account two questions: firstly, that we already pay each of the citizens one euro a day in military spending and, secondly, that which Minister Morenes announced recently of a new military spending of 10 billion. All this, of course, in charge of the public debt, that is, the cuts that are required to the citizenship and social investment that the autonomous communities and local authorities make to reduce this debt, is being used to generate new debt in charge of military spending, which generates a perverse cycle - closing hospitals to buy combat cars, for example -. This should not only make us question the values that are on their electoral agenda, but also to what extent it all ends up being absolutely perverse, because this logic leads us to the following conclusion: those who generated the crisis, those who are managing it, will not only end up coming out of the crisis much richer, but also, thanks to their political discourse and their parliamentary and governmental applications, will not even be able to question the model, with which we may very well have to fall and condemn our society to repeat the same error, unless you remain in the opposition soon and unless the Socialist Party is willing not to change some criteria regarding its relationship with the arms industry, because we must not forget that some of the contracts were also signed by the defense minister of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. I mean, the problem is how, how the future is designed and, unfortunately, I think we are subject to the lobbies of the arms industry. We will oppose and vote against, even though we know that we are in a minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I don't know to what extent it makes sense to address you because we have been distancing ourselves for three years from all the opposition groups to explain that this royal decree that they bring us every year since 2012 - it is the fourth - to pay extraordinary credits from arms programs has unconstitutionality faces, that is, it may be illegal. We have been explaining it for years all the groups and the novelty of this year is, first of all, that it is not presented by the Minister of Defense - we do not know why, it will be that the Minister is you, perhaps that is the factor -; secondly, that he has offered us to be treated as a bill but, as has already been explained, the royal decree is approved; and thirdly, that instead of bringing it in August they bring it now. But as far as the substance of the matter is concerned, nothing changes at all. They bring us again on this occasion 850 million euros - just like last year, just like the previous one - so they tell us again that the opposition's effort to explain to you that these extraordinary credits by royal decree can be illegal, is absolutely useless. If you really intend to process that bill, perhaps by the time the processing is over - it doesn't even give you time to finish the processing - that 850 million is already paid. It seeks to simulate here greater flexibility in the processing of these appropriations, which is, from our point of view, a new trifle in the parliamentary processing. How do I not know, as I said, if it makes much sense to address a government that has been absolutely deaf to all the arguments of the opposition, to the arguments of the Constitutional Court, to the arguments of the Council of State, it seems to me much more productive to address those responsible for the industry. The leaders of the industry know that in the year 2012 were approved by this procedure of royal decree, without extraordinary or urgent need, credits for weapons programs of 1,782 million; in the year 2013, 877 million; in 2014, 883 million and in 2015, 856 million. One of these decrees is discussing its constitutionality or not in the Constitutional Court by bringing the appeal of unconstitutionality different parliamentary groups, no doubt thanks to the Socialist Group, but also to the five Members of my group. If that decree were declared unconstitutional, all extraordinary credits for arms programmes would be in question. This would represent a total of almost EUR 4.4 billion, which is, ladies and gentlemen of the industry, 15% of the estimated total of what arms programmes are, of the estimated EUR 30 billion, because the opacity of the Ministry of Defence prevents us from having a precise figure. What does this mean? - And I turn to those responsible for the industry - that this way of financing special arms programmes is very risky for them, for the industry. It has been legally challenged by the Constitutional Court because it has admitted to processing this appeal, which was accompanied by the Council of Ministers agreement of August 2013, which contains in detail the payment plan until at least 2025. When there is a Council of Ministers agreement in which payments are planned until 2025, it is simply impossible to argue an extraordinary and urgent need. These are payments that you have planned since August 2013 and cannot come in May 2015 to say that there is an urgent or extraordinary need because you are already planned, and that agreement of the Council of Ministers that contributed to the appeal of unconstitutionality is the smoking gun that allows the Constitutional Court to admit to processing that appeal. I have here the note of the admission to procedure of the Constitutional Court signed in November 2014. [[Show a document]] It has already been enough months for the Government to know. In addition, the Council of State has reported that a royal decree is not appropriate for this extraordinary credit. That is to say, those responsible for the industry, legally this decree causes absolute insecurity to those responsible for maintaining these arms industries, but politically also, because all opposition groups have made clear over the years our rejection of this method of financing arms programmes. Firstly, because of its opacity; secondly, because of the illegality of the procedure and, thirdly, because it distorts the budget of the Ministry of Defence - we say it again every year also when the defence budgets are processed - but politically it is a decree and it is a way of financing these programs that is absolutely in question, also socially, because this Government has not brought a single extraordinary credit to finance the many urgent social needs that have existed in the last four years, much more urgent than these payments that are made in an opaque and allegedly illegal manner. Therefore - I turn again to those responsible for the industry - they must not underestimate the legal uncertainty in which this government is bringing them together, they must not underestimate the fact that 15% of the already paid special arms programmes are in the loop. I believe that those responsible for the industry should also consider the political insecurity in which they are. This Government is misadvising them, leading them on a wrong path, which can end in the collapse of these programmes and in the collapse of the funding itself of the programmes. If these programmes collapse, the present Government would be responsible for putting our country in a situation of political insecurity, a situation of risk and threat, because these programmes - we have said on numerous occasions - are not all necessary, and the Government should renegotiate with industry in a way advantageous to the State because the interests it defends are the public interests. And since it has not done so and has used a method that is legally and politically questioned, it can lead the country to a situation of real insecurity, it can cause problems for the security of the country and for the security of the State. It would be a disaster, but it would be a disaster announced by all opposition groups and the highest legal institutions in this country, and it would also be a disaster for industry itself. I do not know if you are aware, but of course those responsible for the industry are. This government is not going to be eternal, this way of financing the programs is not going to be eternal, and you, the government, are putting the arms industry in serious trouble. We will vote against, of course. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u46	Thank you, President. Mr. Montoro, you seem to be the minister for everything. We do not know very well whether it is because of a premonition, that you seem to be the minister of a much smaller group; let us hope that this is why you intervene and not the minister of defence, because if we were not to speak again of none on the part of the head of the ministry, who is the protagonist today of this debate. I would like to begin by saying to you, Mr Montoro, that I do not know what is most surprising to my parliamentary group, whether the none of you in the Ministry of Defence, as I say, or your stoicism when you come here to justify the unjustifiable, that is nothing other than the extreme and urgent need for this real decree for the payment of special arms programmes, as you say - and you have already remembered from here - the report of the Council of State and even the sitting papers of this year's budget debate itself. What I will tell you is that the dimension of our astonishment is only equal or close to that of our tiredness, Minister, because what you are doing - and I would like you to pay attention to me - is not only to take the hair of this House, it is to laugh at people, it is to twist the legal order to turn it into a caricature, it is to deceive, Mr Montoro; it is to deceive with all the letters. Today they again use the figure of the royal decree - of the decree - even though they admit it here as a bill, for the fourth time in the legislature, to allocate nothing more and nothing less than 853 million to the payment of the arms bill. It might well illustrate this annual succession of decree-laws what has been in democratic terms the action of the People's Party Executive, an entire military march in which debate, control of the Government, transparency, prioritization of social policies or the least respect for the constitutional sphere have been directly boosted by your Government, Mr Montoro. Respect for Parliament leads us to talk about this, to debate beyond the content of this royal decree, which is, as I said, the consummation of an attitude radically contrary, Mr Montoro, to the minimum standards of the proper democratic functioning of a country that wishes and wishes to be called. Ladies and gentlemen, you bring us here for the fourth time in a row a sort of sweetening of measures which we should have discussed in the budgetary field, in the general budgets of the State. The question that you must answer is why you are hiding again those 900 million euros that you have not wanted to put in the budget, so that people would know and see what our Government's money is spent on. Moreover, with your attitude, you are doing Spain, Minister, a little favour to the credibility of this Parliament and of the policy itself and, as you have already been told here and reminded - also by the Constitutional Court - of the arms industry. From the Plural Left we assume that this gives you the same, that you are still preoccupied with understanding that the momentary correlation of forces that is lived in this Chamber gives you carte blanche to make your layer a saying and to mortgage the future with new credits, as previous governments did, in this case also of the Socialist Party, and to express to unusually dangerous limits the use and abuse of the real decrees. They started with this in 2012, when they entered the government, with a royal decree that implied an extraordinary credit to deal with the special arms programs of 1,782 million euros. At the time, they argued that the debt had to be renegotiated and that that prevented its proper inclusion in the State's general budgets. Well, in 2013, when the annualities that Spain should pay were already known, you had already renegotiated that debt and did the same as in the previous year, by royal decree worth 877 million euros. By the way, Mr Montoro, a debt renegotiation that can be summed up in paying more, up to 2 billion more, for less. The action at the head of the Ministry of Defence that Mr Morenes is doing is having great beneficiaries and, of course, it is not the Spanish people. Perhaps that has something to do with the vocation of our Minister of Defense for the arms industry. I have already told him and I would have liked to repeat it to him today from this rostrum: to use the executive power of a country as an executive with power in the service of the arms lobby is not for what the minister has been put on that chair, minister. [[Applauds]] In 2014, and despite knowing perfectly well the corresponding amount that he was playing in that exercise and that there was no longer an excuse not to put it on the budget, you bring back another royal decree that, as I told you before - and you have been reminded - was resorted to the Constitutional and, of course, that appeal before the Constitutional makes today sweeten this tragala, as I told you, telling us that they are going to process it as a bill. But it is that, not content with that, you do it again today, as I said to you and, look, Minister, that recidivism of yours and of the People's Party says a lot about you and your way of understanding democracy, subjecting us to another decree to pay this bill, which, I say again, increases the defence budget - and therefore the defence budget you approved is false - by 15%. How do you want us to create your budgetary action? How do you want us to have the slightest respect for the action of this government? When you were intervening in this rostrum, you reminded me of a joke by the great Gila: Is he the enemy? Are there a lot of them? I don't know if there'll be bullets for everyone. Well, we'll shoot and you'll hand them over. [[Applauds]] But what way to work is that, Minister, what way to work is that? It is - let me say - absolutely shameful. Yesterday, in the Defence Committee, we were able to address this debate and there was talk of some other issue that goes to the bottom of the matter, not just the form, and that I do not want to stop quoting from this rostrum. The first is the one that has to do with the R+D+i model that our country has. For us and for us, for the Plural Left, it is necessary to change course in R & D & i policies and, since you are here and you are the minister for everything, take the message from the Plural Left. The conversion of military R+D+i to civilian R+D+i is necessary for a change of productive model, but above all for the improvement in employment, not only for the maintenance of jobs but to increase them, because when you use the workers as blackmail, kidnapping, to justify your bet dedicated by the industry, you are not credible, Mr Montoro, and you have been told here. You have gone through labor conflicts in the field of defence once in a while: in the area of cleaning up the barracks, in the area of the bases of Morón and Rota and in many other matters, so lessons for defending employment and jobs by the People's Party can give few, very few, Minister. In the light of the matter, it is time to know in addition what situation is the repayment of the loans which, through the Ministry of Industry in this case, are allocated year after year to the manufacture of this material, to the arms industry. At the Secretary of State's appearance - I think I recall - during the budget debate we were told that only 141 million of all the credits that had been obtained through R & D+i subsidies from the arms companies had been recovered. We wanted to know - you have also referred to this - how many credits from these have been recovered, how many of these credits have returned to the state's coffers, because the industry gets round the issue: I subsidize production, I produce on order and the sale is safe. I would like to know whether the same treatment is given to other companies and, above all, I would like to know what other companies in the Spanish State, the autonomous and the SMEs in this country are thinking, which are going through quite badly, Mr Montoro. But it's not just that. Neither an assessment has been made of the suitability or not of certain materials - it has been recalled from this rostrum - when our Armed Forces are suffocated precisely because these payments devour the main part of the Ministry of Defence budget and are other needs that they have to ensure effectively their full operation. I am not saying this, not the Group of the Plural Left, but the professionals of the Armed Forces and the royal decree, when there is not even enough ammunition because the correct ammunition has not been bought through budget. Mr Montoro, that's not planning, that's something else; that's something else. It would be useful to make a thorough study of this matter, for society to have all the information and, above all, as we have repeatedly demanded, to carry out a thorough analysis of the needs of the Spanish defence and whether these needs involve this kind of special arms programmes that you have decided to pay for. And they have decided to pay them - I return to the beginning and conclude - by jumping any political and democratic rigour, in an extra-budgetary way despite knowing the expenditure that year by year they involve, through public debt, through the actual decree without giving the constitutionally recognized conditions to use that means of extreme and urgent necessity and hiding from the people that their Government prefers to pay the invoice of the weapons, even if to do so it has to be indebted and to make the consequential cuts that that debt implies. Mr Minister, obviously my group is not going to vote in favour of this royal decree. We know that they will not allow this analysis or this debate that we demand of them, but please at least be courageous and give it budgetaryly. Consign it to the budget. The shock theory, by which you try to anesthetize citizens, is over, Minister, is over, and that is important. We hope that you will soon become the representative of a minority group, so it seems right to us that you are doing practice by absolutely defending all the measures of your Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u47	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Guillaumes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are on Marmot Day, like every year, with an already tripled scene. I liked the first sentence of your speech: I go back up here to the rostrum. You certainly referred to the previous point, but I have thought: it is correct, yes. Indeed, you go back to the rostrum, as every year, to defend an absolutely predictable extraordinary credit. And why are you doing this? Then we hear statements from the minister and his spokespersons saying that the Spanish state - you say Spain, of course - Spain is the one that spends the least on the European Union in percentages on GDP in military matters, only below Luxembourg. Of course, if you do the Grand Captain's accounts you can make statements like that. You know where the expression - you are a man of great culture - comes from in the accounts of the Great Captain, don't you? For that of sending the accounts to the Court saying: 10,000 dubbed by the wear of the bells provoked by the celebration of the victories given. Well, it seems that their budgets are more or less consistent with the logic of the Grand Captain's accounts. The defence budget - this is vox populi and in this sense it harms them - is very makeup. They present before consolidation a budget in which, obviously, there are no autonomous bodies, outsourcing. This alone is 1 billion. They do not have the National Institute of Aerospace Techniques, the Institute of Housing, Infrastructure and Defence Equipment or the Water Experience Channel. They are self-governing bodies before consolidation. We see the budget before consolidation and they are not counted on. A second trick - a quick step, because the underlying theme is another - are the famous expandable games, missions abroad. I have always been curious to hear that you are putting together a clearly expandable sum of EUR 14.36 million, which then ends up being - I am talking about the last one - EUR 789 million. Just out of curiosity, why 14.36? Why not 14 or 15? Why 14.36 if you know you're going to end up paying 789 million or more? Why do they put such a fair figure? We just didn't get it. They will say that it has to be an expandable departure because a new conflict can emerge. Yes, they are right, but we know perfectly well that next year we will be in Lebanon; we know that we will be in the Central African Republic; we know that we will be in Mali and we know how many troops and what spending we will have. Please don't put these 14.36 million on. That you want to leave it as an expandable game? We understand that, but put a figure that has some connection to a reality that you already know perfectly well. Finally, I would like to touch on the subject that brings us today, that of the day of the marmot, that of the special weapons plans. I don't want to repeat myself. The Council of State has said this to you as active and passive, as common sense has said. How can the payment of something that is planned until 2030 tell you that it has surprised you and is urgently needed? You know perfectly well what you had to pay for this year, a credit for special weapons spaces. Why haven't they budgeted it? In short, this serves them, apart from saying the famous phrase that in percentage we spend less - except Luxembourg - than anyone - at this point, any citizen knows, because it is vox populi, which is a lie, which is not so - as a certain darkening technique. You are violating two principles, and I am not saying this but the Council of State. First of all, they violate what I have mentioned from the budgetary technique; everything that can be budgeted, any expenditure that can be planned, must be budgeted in the general budgets of the State. You know positively what will cost you the total amount of special arms programmes and much of what missions abroad will cost you, and you don't. That violates the budgetary principle. They also violate the concept of what is a royal decree-law, which is passed out of urgent necessity. It's an oxymoron, Minister. How can there be urgent need for something that we plan to pay until 2030, since we can calculate perfectly what is going to cost us each year? Where can this urgent need arise? Do you tell me? What's going on? Budgetary makeup and, ultimately, obscurantism in the accounts. The minister has told us many times in the Commission: we will try to renegotiate things, we will try to resell some of this material to other countries. We don't know whether or not you're doing all this, we don't have much perception that you're doing it. If done, it remains in the absolute darkness because the figures do not appear in the budget; there is no less figure than last year because such a thing has been renegotiated, no. If the minister has the right to inform us, he tells us, although he does not normally do so. He states that he will try to do so, but on specific issues he has said little. Therefore, obscurantism. This is a bad business; it is a bad business but for everyone: for politics in general, for opposition groups, that we cannot do our job of controlling the accounts, but honestly - I said it yesterday in the Commission - especially for the government of the state, because the issue of 'agstity' to approve the decree no longer works for them. People are perfectly aware on this issue that the numbers that are said to be of defense expenses are in practice much lower than the real ones; it is already vox populi, everyone knows. The main losers are you because there is a rule - you know it - and not just in politics: where no information is generated space for speculation and rumor. Mr Minister, you personally have had to deny genuine barbarities that have told me about what the Spanish state's defence budget really was. When there is no transparency, people speculate and run numbers, some of them I wouldn't dare even repeat here. Present things as they are, end the day of the marmot; in the end you can leave the day of the marmot and appear a new day, and with it the light, the light on the beads. Comply with the budgetary principle, comply with the concept of what should be a decree-law, minister, for the good of all; above all, for the good of you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. Mr Ferrer has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to bring tranquillity and serenity to your soul: the minister is in Singapore at the most important meeting of defence ministers of the year; the minister is defending the interests of Spain, which is what he usually does. [[Applauds]] We have discussed this same issue more than half a dozen times, so that when I was preparing my speech, I wanted at first to find some original approach, a different way of dealing with the problem, motivated by the desire not to bore your ladies and gentlemen and not to overwhelm them with the repetition of arguments. Inevitably, the verses of Lope came to my mind: 'A sonnet tells me to do Violante / that in my life I have seen myself as a burden...' Well looked at, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is of remarkable simplicity. The Royal Decree-Law grants extraordinary credits to deal with three different issues: first, for the remodeling of a plant of the Gómez Ulla Central Defence Hospital as a high-level hospital isolation unit, as a result of the Ebola crisis. Secondly, provision is made to deal with the ammunition plan. It seems superfluous to explain to your ladies and gentlemen the inestimable advantages of having ammunition in the event of a conflict and how grateful the troops are for it, especially now that the assaults with a gun have fallen into disuse. Finally, EUR 846 million is planned to meet the annual commitments resulting from the so-called special arms programmes. As you know, the nineteen programmes, both because of their economic volume and because of the industrial and technological complexity they pose, represent the most relevant acquisition of weapons systems carried out by the Ministry of Defence. These programmes have been and are essential for the modernization of the Armed Forces, which thus have capabilities commensurate with the needs of national defence, our commitments to our partners and allies and to the system of maintaining global peace and security. Ladies and gentlemen, the special weapons plans have also led to a very important aggravation for a leading industrial sector which generates more than 20,000 high-skilled direct jobs, which is intensive in R & D+i, with an enormous export capacity, and which also generates patents applicable in other fields. Finally, but not least, every time this august House takes the decision to deploy our men and women in a conflict zone in defence of our country's interests, apart from world order, peace and security, it assumes the inescapable commitment, it assumes the responsibility to equip them to the extent of our possibilities of the material necessary to meet the mission and also the security of the troops; that is, to fulfil the task that we have entrusted to them and to have the best chance of doing so by returning in one piece. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of state, of national security, it has no political colour. It is, in any case, a matter of responsibility or irresponsibility and this Government has assumed as its own the special programmes regardless of the colour of the Government which entrusted them, and has done so precisely because it is on the side of responsibility. Allow me, Mr López Garrido, to remind you - you and I, we have been in the ministry - that we have seen how every minister hangs when his portrait comes out, how there is a portrait in which a minister appears surrounded by the models of his orders: car Leopard, frigate F-100 and Eurofighter - the three most expensive projects we have bought throughout our history -. Do you know which minister you are? What proud minister shows his achievements? Minister García Vargas! Whose minister was he? Mr. Felipe González! [[Applauds]] But we assume those responsibilities because it is a matter of responsibility for national security, Your Honor. Once this premise is laid, obviously the acquisition of war material generates a debt, and debts are always a problem, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the People's Party took two decisions in this regard. Firstly, it took the initiative of renegotiating it, in my opinion, with the remarkable result of saving the taxpayers of this country the nothing negligible amount of 8 billion euros, and so has Minister Montoro, also serving this country today in this room. Of course, the debt has been reduced but it persists. The Government of the People's Party decided to discard the method of the former socialist Government, which basically consisted of not paying the debt. True, it was an ingenious and incipient method, but the insistence of creditors on collecting it made it eminently impractical. Therefore, the second decision taken by the Government was to face the debt through the procedure of paying it; a solution - I must admit - less imaginative, but obviously more effective and with the added advantage of helping to restore confidence in our country, at that time one of the basic conditions for getting out of the economic crisis in which we were in. Another advantage offered by the policy of dealing with debts by the curious and exotic procedure of paying them is that it allows you to negotiate the terms with the creditor, and thus the substantial reduction of 8 billion euros to which it referred can be added the flexibility of the payments; here I go into which seems to be the mother of all the complaints of many of his lords. I am referring to the fact that it is a real decree-law in the middle of the year that approves the credits for special arms programmes rather than being included in the State General Budgets. You will see, ladies and gentlemen. The payment of special programmes is important to the Government, but is not its priority. The priority and non-negotiable is expenditure on education, unemployment benefits, health care, pensions and social expenditure in general. These appear, as it could not otherwise be, reflected in the General Budgets of the State. The investment in armaments for our Armed Forces, if necessary and unavoidable, is negotiable, flexible and has much to do with the evolution of the economy throughout the year, of the State's accounts and, as a result, of its availability of credit for this purpose. We have that data today with absolute certainty, but in June last year, when the budget was drawn up, of course not, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see, this is a matter of priorities and this government has always prioritized social spending on arms spending, however necessary and fair this is too. If all this is not enough, add to it, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties in delivering an extraordinarily complex material and subject to all kinds of controls at reception, which makes the dates for its entry into service and later payment to the manufacturer into merely guidance. For example, the case of the F400. We should already have four units in service but we do not have any, none have been delivered to us. There can also be a problem in the design and development of a project, as in the case of the S-80 submarine. All this will lead them to the conclusion that the use of the decree-law does not respond to a whim of the government but to a healthy exercise of common sense. Finally, some of you accuse the Government of opacity in this matter, when references to the royal decree-law appear these days in all the media. Its text is published in full in at least two official bulletins and today we have a monographic debate on the issue in this House. I ask you: if the government intended to spend this investment as a cover, would it not be more logical to include it in the general budgets and to put it in a diluted roundabout in the vastness of that debate? Wouldn't that be more sensible and more reasonable if that were the will of the Government? Instead, we are subject to a unique and exclusive debate at this House's plenary session. It seems to be a matter of elementary political tactics, on the general part. Why do they say he's opaque? Opaco is the ivory suit, but not this decree - law, ladies and gentlemen. I only have to finish my speech with Lope's verses: 'I'm already in the second, and I still suspect/ that I'm going to finish the thirteen verses;/ tell if they are fourteen, and it's done.' Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Ferrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u52	We move on to the next point. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Mr Salvador has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the process of this important amendment to the Organic Law on the Financing of Autonomous Communities. I am not going to reproduce what I said on 16 April when we voted on the partial amendments to the opinion. I will only make a point of an important amendment on Navarra which gave a new wording to the second additional provision. I would like to recall - against those who insist that because of the fact that there is only one member of the Navarro People's Union who has no capacity to defend Navarra and against those responsible for certain parties, such as Geroa Bai, we are accused of leaving the defence of Navarra vacant - that it was only the Navarro People's Union that, in the long term of submission of partial amendments, almost three months, tabled an amendment to defend, to update, to guarantee, to shield the tax regime in Navarra. For us, the Navarro tax system is important. It is one of the most characteristic identity signs of Navarra's political personality. It is, in our view, the best regulatory framework that regulates relations between different administrations; it also facilitates collaboration, complementarity, respects diversity, guarantees solidarity and serves to resolve in a peaceful way, if one wishes, because it is true that in this legislature some have perverted the system, the conflicts that may arise on a day-to-day basis in the exercise of our autonomy in a complex administration such as that we have. From Navarre, some of us have always claimed the political maturity of our institutions to manage our own affairs, without guardianships either of Vitoria or of Madrid, respecting an essential and useful principle of subsidiarity because, ladies and gentlemen, with humility, Union of the Navarro People wants the best for the shipwrecks. That's what we've been trying to do in this process as well, looking for the best. For example, just as the Basque Nationalist Party does not want Bildu to rule in Guipúzcoa or in the City of San Sebastián, we would not help that same group, with all its phobias, grudges and totalitarian vision of society, to enter any institution in Navarre. I think it makes sense. Therefore, today we do not understand that from that political party, which is considered very harmful for Guipúzcoa - for the whole Basque country, but in particular for San Sebastián - it wants that group to rule in Navarre and for the Navarros. This is what he is doing and claims his white mark, the Geroa Bai of Mrs. Barkos, helping precisely those who for forty years have been chanting in the streets of Pamplona the famous Gora ETA! to get a mayor's office without enough votes. Ladies and gentlemen, small inheritance they want to leave us! They'll see. Acting like this has the logic of those who act by accumulating forces in national construction, and for us it is obviously nothing new. At least, please, I would ask you not to say that this is the best thing you can think of for shipwrecks, because those covenants I am sure - they know - will achieve exactly the opposite, as you all know very well in Guipúzcoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I started I wanted to make a recognition - the other day I was in electoral campaign in Alicante - to the workers of Post and take off their shirt ; that of a new public service that they are letting die, that they are letting disappear from starvation. [[Show a T-shirt]] 11,000 jobs have not been replaced in this legislature, and that is another way of letting a perfectly functioning public service die. My appreciation of the struggle of these workers. Let's get to the point. On January 31, 2015, the Minister of Finance - who has just left -, Cristóbal Montoro, acknowledged that the Valencians were underfunded in the current model of distribution of resources of the State of Autonomies, as they reflect - said the Minister - all the studies. What a Spanish government has to do in this situation, he was asked. Correct it; that's what he said, correct it. This is what he responded to on that visit to Valencia in the 2011 local and autonomous elections. According to the profit-burden method chosen by the group of experts led by the ministry itself, the Valencian Community has a fiscal deficit of 2,018 million, according to its studies. The financing model ceases to be supportive when not all self-governments receive the same per capita money to finance their services. These words are not mine, they are the words of a colleague of yours, Ignacio González, President of the Community of Madrid. With the allocation that the Valencians receive from the state we only cover 85% of health and education; the rest we cover it with loans, almost 40 billion debt, with an increase, only in 2014, of 5 billion. And then Mr Rajoy talks about amateur politicians and professional politicians! His colleagues increased the debt by 5 billion last year in the Valencian Community. The per capita financing of Valencians is 79% of the average in the period 2002-2012. Only in those ten years have 21 of every 100 euros been spoiled and, worst of all, the Valencians, despite having a lower-than-average income, we fund other richer communities; in fact, we are the only poor and contributing communities. It has been three and a half years and the People's Party has done nothing, and this situation has consequences. It represents sacrifices every day, has consequences, has sacrifices and, above all, has a culprit: the People's Party. On Sunday they began to pay for the consequences and sacrifices. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canarian nationalists once again are not going to support this project for three reasons. The first, because there has been a lack of institutional loyalty. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the autonomous communities were informed by the press, they were summoned to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council three days earlier, and not all information was given to them in that Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. That is an absolute lack of institutional loyalty. Matters as important as those relating to guarantees and guarantees, the inclusion of new causes of State intervention mechanisms and new limitations on financial autonomy in terms of indebtedness were not reported to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The second issue for which the Canarian nationalists are going to vote against is that this government has had an absolute lack of courage and political commitment by not reviewing the autonomous financing system; that is the real issue because there was a commitment that as of 1 January 2015 the new financing system would have been approved. I'm not saying, like everyone else, that I'm the worst, no. FAES, Mr Aznar, the People's Party say that the community in which there is the greatest deviation from the necessary funding is the Canary Islands. That affects a fundamental right. The People's Party is filled with words about the equality of all Spaniards. As far as the Spanish are concerned, in essential basic services, the Canary Islands have a financing deficit, even if we are on the national average, of about 800 million euros. [[Status of welfare, health and education]] The last reason we are going to vote against this is because it affects the constitutional principles of the autonomous model and the financial autonomy, Members of the PP, of the Autonomous Communities. We are also again denouncing the issue of the Compensation Fund, which balances communities on equality, and which, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, follows with a two-year liquidation delay. For these three reasons, the canarian nationalists say no again to this bill and, above all, we call on the People's Group to start working on the new model of autonomous financing. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u59	Madam President, before I begin, I have to say that I was surprised by the action of the UPN spokesman and that the Presidency has not said anything to him at all. UPN's spokesman has gotten in touch with the Basque Nationalist Party, to understand us, with the policy of pacts, and has published his report on what the pacts should be like. I don't think this is the place, nor is this the time. Of course, Mr Salvador, if you have had bad electoral results and cannot govern Navarre as it has so far, it is something that corresponds to your reflection and it is not a question of blaming others. I'm on it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you have once again shown your authoritarian and intransigent attitude by ignoring and ignoring what other groups have put before you, in particular what we have put before you from the Basque Group in relation to the first final provision amending Law 14/1986 of 25 April 1986, General de Sanidad, which has nothing to do with Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities and the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. It has nothing to do with, and it also represents a very clear intrusion and infringement of competition that we have already denounced in discussing the draft in this House on 16 April and that we want to denounce again today since this has not been corrected in its handling in the Senate. How much work, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we are being left for the next parliamentary term because of its impeccability to reverse the autonomous state, because of its lack of respect for the legal framework and the rules of play that form the institutional framework. They introduced the final provision first in the paper, incorporating into the legislative text an amendment of the People's Group with premeditation and faltering, trying to make sure that the other groups in the House did not know. But we found out and denounced it; there is the 'Diary of Sessions' which clearly reflects the position of our parliamentary group. Today I just want to highlight some of the issues that I pointed out in the previous debate, and that is why we are at the front of this draft. For the arguments I am going to give you, we will vote no to the amendments incorporated, we will vote no to the opinion and the organic nature of the draft; a non-resounding and strong one. The project limits the ability of the autonomous communities to act in the health field and not only those that are funded by the liquidity funds that were supposed to be created with this bill, but all of them. In our view, this implies constitutional fraud and, as such, we are sure that the autonomous institutions will act. They intend to impose on us measures of an organic law such as that of stability, designed for the entire budget of the administrations, only to a sub-spect of a specific section by means of an ordinary law. Ladies and gentlemen, health agreements must be adopted within the framework of the Inter-Territorial Health Council and financial aid and agreements, provided they are for communities of common interest, within the framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and in the Joint Committee of the Concert, in the case of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi or the Foral Community of Navarre. Not content, I insist, with the application of article 135 of the Constitution, which by legal imperative we respect and comply with, they want to set up a police system to control absolutely everything, including the minimum details. That is why, for what I argued and for what I basically expressed in the previous debate, I reiterate that the vote on the draft by the Basque Group will be no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the conclusion of a debate which, if I may, I believe is the paroxysm of the degradation of the legislative function of this House. You have managed to reach the highest summits of legislative degradation and it was difficult to overcome yourself. We just saw it a moment ago with the debate of the decree-law on the extension of the defense credit, that sort of routine that sometimes comes in July and sometimes in June or May but that permanently implies that any resemblance to the reality of the general budgets of the state is pure coincidence. With this bill, to which you call it the financing of the Autonomous Communities, you have surpassed yourselves, degrading the role of this House to unsustainable limits. At this point, one wonders why you have led us to that level of legislative degradation. You may have decided, for example, to table amendments by the People's Party by reforming seven laws - as you do in this case - differently from the draft law is the way to modify things without having to go through the mandatory reports and opinions of the Council of State or other institutions. It may be that, they have done so on many occasions and, therefore, that could be the explanation. It could even be that once they have reached such a level of absolute majority abuse, they feel so absolutely comfortable that even that absolute majority is acting against them, because they decide to improvise permanently, repeatedly amending a decree-law with another decree-law, a bill of competition reformed three times when the previous one has not yet been completed. That is why I insist that this time you have surpassed yourselves and that paroxysm is total. You have presented us with a law, to which you cynically call the financing of the autonomous communities and of budgetary stability, which is all but the title you carry, although that in itself would be no surprise, you have become the kings of euphemism: rescues are not called ransoms and tax amnesties are not called fiscal amnesties until life pushes them to reality. But this is not only not a law on the financing of the autonomous communities, the seriousness is that they are failing to fulfil their commitment to review the financing model of the autonomous communities, which was to be amended on 1 January 2014, and not only do they fail to fulfil that commitment, but they have the degree of cynicism to present us with a deeply interventionist, to the extreme exaggerated, law on the autonomy of the autonomous communities, and above all present it as a law on the financing of the autonomous communities. Could the legislative function be further degraded? Yes, it could be further degraded, and you have managed to do so by introducing, through amendments in Congress and then by removing some cosines in the Senate, important reforms of seven laws. I remind you, they are not any laws, they are absolutely important laws that would deserve at least a meaningful debate, a specific debate, a debate with a specific autonomy, and especially in that which affects health. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, you are again cheating on the citizenry. They try to show that the deficit generated in public administrations is a deficit generated by the autonomous communities and that this is why they must be intervened. So they only need to place behind each autonomous community, as they are also doing behind each town hall, a kind of political commissioner who practically determines the color mark of the toilet paper of these institutions. Any day you reach that level, because the degree of interventionism you establish is absolutely brutal, confusing public opinion. You know that while the autonomous communities have only one third of the financing of public administrations, the deficit only reaches a fifth; that is not where you should intervene. Moreover, if autonomy is then undermined in that way, with a degree of interventionism, it loses all its meaning; even from that perspective, if I may say so, autonomy is also autonomy even to be wrong, provided, logically, that it is assuming its own responsibilities. But if not, what is autonomy, what is self-government? Is it a decentralisation that doesn't even have the administrative name? No, it can't be. In case it were little, you return to one of those customs that you have and incorporate in this law indeterminate legal concepts; this time the one of financial prudence. It is not that we get used to you having decided to replace the basic elements of labour law with economic relations, but it is part of your usual strategy; rights are not rights, they are only rights as long as the economic situation permits. This is what they have done, for example, in labour reform. But they have already gone a little further and introduce concepts that in legal terms are impossible to interpret. And laws must give legal certainty to those actors or subjects to whom they are applied and legal certainty to those who must interpret it. Can you explain to us what this is about financial prudence? Is financial prudence what was applied, for example, by the Madrid City Council when it was governed by Mr Gallardón? Apparently not. Is financial prudence the barbarity of putting the state under a permanent pressure of weakening tax revenues, as has been done for a long time until we leave our tax system in cadaveric state? It seems that's not financial prudence. For you financial prudence consists of spending less and less on social services, for you financial prudence consists of guaranteeing less and less social rights. That is not financial prudence, that is, from my point of view, irresponsible. And since, I insist, paroxysm reaches its ultimate consequences, it is in the degree of brutal interference that this law establishes through not the bill, but the amendments in Congress in the field of the National Health System and the competences of the autonomous communities. What you do with this law is a real barbarity, a degree of interventionism to the end in the functions of the National Health System. Let's see if you understand this at once! The problem of the National Health System is not that the autonomous communities spend much or bad - it is possible that someone spends badly - the problem is that we have an underfunding, that the Spanish State as a whole spends less than what it needs to give universal coverage, of quality and dignity, as is recognized in the General Health Law. The problem is that and you want to solve it with hacks, with chainsaws in health spending and, by the way, by chaining the autonomous communities in their health management, by literally chaining them. The truth is that what you do in this bill is to charge yourself with autonomy in this area and you should have learned in these thirty years that if something has improved the quality of health care in this country, in general terms, it is the ability to make decisions close to the citizenry. I, who am critical in many of the things that Convergència i Union has done in the different moments when the autonomous community has ruled, from that critical attitude I can tell you that if something has positive our National Health System is that it is governed from proximity, to error, but from proximity. Let us, please, be wrong to us, because that is self-government; if not, it is unhealthy interventionism from that point of view. Moreover, it is not the same, there cannot be the same management structure; rights, yes; equity, yes; uniformity, no. Let's see if you understand this at once! Equity is one thing, it's equality in access; uniformity is to pretend that health is governed as if a kind of brigada chusquero - forgive the brigadas, who do it better than you - decides how everything is to be done in every service, in every entity of the National Health System. [[A Member of Parliament: That you]] What you do in this bill is a real barbarity because, moreover, that will not prevent those who want to privatize the National Health System from continuing to do so because, yes, that you already provide it in due course, that whoever wants to privatize it can do it, but that whoever wants to manage public health services decently cannot do it. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can imagine, after this assessment, the least is the amendments that come to us from the Senate. What the Senate can fix with four technical amendments if it turns out that what comes is a bodrio that leads to the most absolute level of paroxysm the degradation of the legislative function of this House and also an unprecedented setback in the culture of autonomy of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u62	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, with this procedure we have finally adopted the draft organic law amending the Lofca and the Law on Stability; a bill to which my group has at the time tabled an amendment to the whole and ten amendments to the article in Congress, as well as veto and twenty-six amendments to the article in the Senate. None of these ten amendments to Congress, nor the twenty-six amendments to the Senate, have been approved or negotiated; none of them, not just those of my group, but those of all parliamentary groups. A total and absolute success of parliamentarianism. They are well aware of our position on this bill: the Act on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities of the Common System is amended but it does not address what needs to be addressed, which is nothing other than the new funding system. A new funding system which should have entered into force last year, which should be in force now, and has not been done! In addition, the Government has completely overshadowed it, without blushing. Without any redundancy they commit a manifest illegality and this is because the Government prefers to finance, extraordinarily, the autonomous communities through loans, through credits, rather than by ordinary means, which would be through a new funding system. And this isn't free. It is not free to prefer to finance in an extraordinary way rather than to do so in an ordinary way. Everything has its motive, but you prefer not to say it in this case. Many of us assume what the objective is to finance extraordinarily and not to do so on an ordinary basis. Two issues have concerned Convergence and Union in relation to this organic bill. First - you know perfectly well - the strict application of the content of the draft law entails a very high rigidity for the normal development of the work carried out by the autonomous credit institutes. You have made a commitment with my group to settle this issue and we have now reached the final parliamentary process of the bill and it has not been done. They have dizzyed the loss in Congress, they dizzyed the loss in the Senate and, as we say in Catalan, the warmest is the watermelon. They haven't done anything, they haven't kept their word. Read the 'Diary of Sessions' of the debate on the amendments as a whole: they committed themselves to fixing it and have not done so, ladies and gentlemen. But that has not been the worst of this bill that you will pass today with your votes. The worst, because of its content, because of the way in which they have committed themselves to dealing with the issue and have not done so, is that intended instrument for facilitating the treasury of pharmaceutical expenditure, which is included with the amendment of the General Health Act and the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. I have already told them in the parliamentary procedure that they included this issue through the back door, without facing the substantive debate, a serious debate. They already know that and little or nothing has mattered to them, I must tell them. But my group does care, and it matters a great deal, because this instrument seeks to intervene the health competences of the autonomous communities, allowing the Government to cancel the supplementary portfolio of health services and limit access to the distribution of economic resources for health. Purely and plainly, an intervention by the autonomous communities by the Government of the State. In the vote on the opinion, I asked them here in plenary whether they had spoken to the Autonomous Communities. I had no answer to that. I'm telling you now: they haven't. Neither did they in the process of Congress nor did they in the process of the Senate. They convened a meeting with the autonomous officials who ended up hanging over them for reasons of legislative procedure. And that's the end of the problem. They convoke, disvoke, and there's no problem here. They have not spoken to the Autonomous Communities. Moreover, I am convinced that they did not want to talk to the Autonomous Communities. While the amendments were being tabled in the Senate to this bill, with which my group made proposals regarding this intended instrument of treasury, of financing of pharmaceutical expenditure, they communicated to the European Union - the Government communicates to the European Union - the update of the stability programme, including a mention of the implementation of a new system to promote the sustainability of the pharmaceutical and health expenditure of the autonomous communities. We did not know how much less income the autonomous communities will have with this intended instrument. In the end, we know, and you know how much they're supposed to be? EUR 500 million for this year 2015 and, in addition, EUR 500 million for 2016. [[Show a document]] So, 1 billion in two years. And they don't talk to the autonomous communities; that's to be brave, that's to face and assume the consequences of things. They have not spoken to the autonomous communities; 1 billion euros in two years. And they do not want to talk to the autonomous communities because they know that they will tell them that what should be done is to ensure the sustainability of the health system. And what does this mean? For it means increasing State budgetary resources by resolving the traditional underfunding of the health system and means that the principle of institutional loyalty in the health field must also be guaranteed, transferring specific funding for the new services approved by the Government to the autonomous communities. The change in the health laws that you will pass today with your votes for you must be a mere administrative matter of rationalization of expenditure; this must be understood by the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, a mere administrative matter but, from the perspective of the autonomous communities, from the perspective of the competent administrations that manage the health services to the citizens, the measure is not administrative, the measure is real, with real effects, and will negatively affect the level of care of the public health services. I give you an example: the Ministry of Health will speak with the associations of diabetic patients when the supplementary portfolio of services in Catalonia remove the podology for these patients; let's see what they will tell them, how they will tell them and how they will look into their eyes then. I told you a few weeks ago, all this reminds me of that 'I invite but you pay' thing. Also, now, with the passing of the law, to the 'I invite but you pay' we will add 'and I will also intervene', and I will intervene your health skills. The measure is absolutely insurmountable for Convergence i Union in the terms that they will adopt today with their votes. It is not a real measure to ensure the sustainability of health services. The measure involves a clear interference in the autonomous management of health services, contrary to the competences of the autonomous communities and with an impact on the provision of health services to citizens. We, Convergence and Union, will vote against, radically against. This cannot be shared, and it will, as I say, mean a decline in the health services provided to citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vázquez Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u65	Thank you, President. We are debating for the third time in the plenary of this House this organic bill which amends, according to its title, the Lofca, the Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities, and the Act on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, although in reality - it has been said here and we know it - with the self-amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group already modifies nine. The text comes back from the Senate because it incorporates four amendments. Guess from which parliamentary group are the four amendments that are incorporated. Indeed, of the People's Group, only of the People's Group. I am going to add some questions because the truth is that the debate is being quite hard, I believe, for the People's Party. It seems unreasonable that in the period of partial amendments, of amendments to the article, of the draft law which is being submitted to amend two laws, the Government should consider amending seven more laws. I do not think it was an occurrence, but rather a premeditation to amend laws by jumping the parliamentary debate and the preceptive reports that would have been necessary to amend laws quite quietly, by the way, and also so that the minister did not have to face up here by explaining some barbarities that, in my view, are raised in this bill. The bill was introduced by Minister Montoro - long ago in the People's Party they are experts in putting titles and in explanatory statements - as a project that included modifications to ensure the financial sustainability of the autonomous communities and the provision of basic public services, but in the article nothing was said that made it possible. In fact, all the groups - we are seeing it again in this debate today - in Congress and in the Senate we have interpreted that what the bill really seeks is to increase control over the autonomous communities and reduce their financial and management autonomy. That is why this bill - I will recall - has received from other groups, except from the People's Group, logically, six amendments to the whole of this House, seven vetoes in the Senate, eighty-three amendments to the bill in Congress and ninety-five amendments in the Senate. No one was right in any amendment in the eyes of the government, and I say in the eyes of the government because in the eyes of some Members and Senators some amendments were right and have even gone through some trouble having to say no. But the government is relentless, he says no. This bill is a clear example of a roller. Those same votes that adopted the amendments of the People's Group should require the Government, as the whole House is doing, to present a funding model that really solves the problems of the autonomous communities, because those governed by the People's Party, at least so far, do not like this project either, because Mr Montoro's decisions here are lacking votes in their autonomous communities. Minister Montoro has not dared to present a financing model for the Autonomous Communities but, in return, he has created a loan-based financing model that he uses to tie them up in short and he also wants to be thanked, as if the money were his own and lent it to the Autonomous Communities, as if the money came from Genoa and lent it to the Autonomous Communities. No, it is state money and it is their obligation to finance it in the best possible conditions, because the autonomous communities return the money with their interests. This bill will not solve the financing problems of the autonomous communities, but it will also not facilitate the fulfilment of the deficit target or the fulfilment of the public debt, inter alia, because the major deficit problem lies in the central administration. The central administration systematically fails to meet the deficit target; moreover, it has failed to reduce the deficit it inherited. In 2011 he inherited 5.2%, in 2012 he had 5.2%, in 2013 even more, 5.5% and in 2014 they say at the moment - it is not yet definitive - that 4.6%. Let's hope so. If some communities have deficit problems they are the ones ruled so far by the People's Party, especially Valencia and Castile-La Mancha. And with public debt there is something like this: the central government really has a problem of excessive public debt, which will leave a hundred percent of GDP when the government leaves. What will this law achieve if the People's Group votes in favour? It will make it less effective, for example, for public bodies that have autonomous communities, as happens in Catalonia and the autonomous communities that plan to create it, such as Andalusia, because Minister Montoro puts them on the wheel by restricting their ability to grant guarantees and revalidation. It will also be able to direct the autonomous communities, indicating, as if they were minors, the priority in the payment of their debts. Debts with municipalities now have to be given priority, and in a clear act of unconstitutionality the Government attributes the possibility of retaining resources to the autonomous communities to pay directly to local authorities. There are communities that are hoping that if this law is passed - it will be passed with their votes - the next day they will present a remedy of unconstitutionality. This law will also, as has been said, be able to control the health policy of the autonomous communities that are hosting the Funding Fund. And they will all have to benefit, because the Government knows that the autonomous communities are underfunded, but also health, and in this all political groups, including that of the Government, agree. They will be limited in their growth in health expenditure, which will grow as Mr Montoro says. It will not even be what the Minister of Health says, but what Mr Montoro says. Health will have a specific spending rule. No matter how much the community complies with the general spending rule that they have also set for it; although it is about money, it will no longer be able to invest in health because Mr. Montoro says so. And the community that goes beyond even a little bit of that growth rate is going to be banned from approving the supplementary service portfolio. That is not what the Government likes, because it cannot bear that some autonomous communities - I will name Andalusia - have the broadest service portfolio and the lowest per capita health expenditure even in the country. Mr Montoro is disgusted by the fact that it is especially Andalusia. Finally, this law will take another twist to favor the change of model towards re-centralization in the face of the autonomy of the autonomous communities. It will also make a twist for a change of model of society that has been in a hurry to implement the People's Party Government. It is a model with fewer rights, precarious wages, segregating education, less public health and, all this, with the sole support of the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group and none of the rest of the parliamentary arc. If you have any understanding of the 24th election, you should start making some gesture of humility, not those smiles that are being seen around. Do not continue with the canteen that we are the ones who grow the most without explaining that growth is unequal and totally unfair, because as the profits of IBEX companies grow and the number of rich grows, so do inequality and social exclusion. It is data that you know, but which you never want to talk about, probably because it affects sectors that are not your audience but that also vote. They now have the opportunity to vote against this draft. Start showing that you no longer agree with the PP roller. Many are realizing this and are asking the Government to do so. They show that they want to return to the parliamentary game that once existed in this House, in this case to agree on a financing model for the autonomous communities that will solve their problems and allow them to recover so many lost rights. Perhaps you will not continue to lose votes or candidates in the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. For the People's Group, Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin by commenting on the amendments incorporated in the Senate, which is what it is today. The first of the amendments is a new additional provision on financing the execution of final judgments by local authorities. The second is another new provision on compensation to local entities in relation to the tax on mechanical traction vehicles. The third relates to a material error in the text referred by the Congress of Deputies regarding the reference to the ministry responsible for this matter. And finally, there is an amendment to the eleventh final provision to declare certain rules of an ordinary nature. As we have already mentioned in the course of the debate on this bill, the aim is to ensure the financial sustainability of our territorial entities - autonomous communities and municipalities - and in turn to provide the essential basic services that are their own. This reform seeks two very simple things, ladies and gentlemen: on the one hand, to finance public administrations at a lower cost and, on the other, to ensure that these basic services: health, education and social services, are provided with the best guarantees, since they are the pillars and foundations of the welfare state. You are aware that in 2012, at the beginning of the legislature, the lack of liquidity of the territorial entities - of the autonomous communities and the municipalities - was of enormous proportions. It should be recalled that access to debt financing by territorial administrations was triggered, at best; in other cases, their capacity to apply for funds was limited or closed, especially for such basic education, health and social services. Whether you like it or not, that was the reality at the beginning of this legislature, from 2012 to here. In this thesis, we were asked to change the autonomous funding? The truth is that its financial and logical capacity is null and void. We, of course, choose another path, which is to strengthen it and provide liquidity to the autonomous communities and municipalities so that they face their defaults and can continue to provide us with public services. Here is the Payment Plan for suppliers and many other measures, such as the one that this law brings, that have eased the burden of territorial entities that could not tolerate. If they really don't like it, ask the 123,000 SMEs and self-employed in Spain who paid more than €11.5 billion that they owed if they disagree with this government's financial policy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the measures put in place have facilitated liquidity for the autonomous communities and municipalities in the amount of EUR 184 billion, of which approximately 70%, around EUR 100 billion, have gone exclusively to social expenditure. Thanks to these measures and the money injected they have been able to pay off the debts and continue to provide services. Four years ago, most municipalities had an unsustainable economic and financial situation due to their lack of liquidity; 97% of local authorities now have surpluses. This law defines the social FLA, which provides almost 700 million euros for the autonomous communities to pay their debts to the municipalities, all of which have wanted to benefit from it. Ladies and gentlemen, some of them apparently welcomed, had debts with the municipalities and did not intend to pay it, like Andalusia, which has taken 82 million euros, 82 million that they owed to the municipalities, which they could not pay. With this law it is proposed to give liquidity to pay the pharmaceutical costs. It is a proposal for voluntary adoption, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard some say here that conditions are in place. Ladies and gentlemen, if you hadn't left EUR 800 million in the SAS invoice box, as the Chamber of Auditors denounced when we put the accountant at zero payment to suppliers, and when you could have settled that debt, you wouldn't have that urgency and urgency today. If they don't like the bottom, they don't welcome. I give you one piece of advice: go and look for the billions of euros that have gone to them through the sinkhole of the EREs, which at best can pay for these fractures and others. [[Applauds]] However, you take the opportunity to say no, that laws are bad, but then, when measures come in, you welcome them to stir up against the People's Party, because that's all you want. The question was: Did we settle the country or let it sink? We fixed it with determination, courage and effectiveness or this was sinking. But you're still in the same place, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vázquez is not like her colleague in the Senate, Mr Vázquez García; she said that all the evils of the world come from the PP, and her colleague said: Neither I nor the Socialist Group have any difficulty in recognizing - and we are also glad - that some macroeconomic data are improving; we are growing more: jobs are created, funding is still scarce but at a lower cost, and the deficit, although much slower than expected, is being corrected. - literally read from the Journal of Sessions. Don't worry, he pulled arguments and said it was for Draghi, the IMF, the tide movement and the moon hangover, but at least he said the data was true; you, or that. As far as you are concerned, you are against reducing the funding costs of communities and municipalities. Do you want a model reform? For yesterday if possible. Are you clear, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, what model do you want? Because with its populist drift I would already like to see how the revenues and financing of those expenses that they now promise are squared. Because the easy thing to promise, ladies and gentlemen, is very easy to forget. This populism reminds me of a very old and very late-night period, it reminds me a lot of the salary they promised the housewives in my land that my grandmother was waiting for. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely look forward to seeing your measures of financial magic and some of us smiled; we did not laugh, we smiled, but I will never smile - I will not be able to understand what some laugh at, which will be like hyenas - with the results of others because as far as applauding the results of others, everyone who makes themselves look at their own. Since they do not propose strict measures, since they will then take these and take the money, at least ask for the vote in favour of this bill. Be more serious and rigorous because they cannot criticize measures and then run to the door of the ministry to ask for money because it is not managed well - and they go like budget trilers -. Thank you very much. [[Mrs Vázquez Morillo asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mrs. Vazquez, what do you want?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u69	I wanted the floor to ask Mrs Romero for a correction, as she referred to the EREs, which are still in legal proceedings. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u70	Wait a minute, Mrs. Vazquez. As I trust you, if you ask me for that correction, as I haven't been, I'm sure you're right. I'll give you two minutes to explain and then I'll give it to Mrs. Romero to answer. Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u71	Mr President, Mrs Romero has referred to how much money has gone through the ERE sink, and she has said billions of euros. [[Rumors]] Even the prosecutor's office hasn't said that! If the amounts that are being given so far do not reach those of other corruptions that go to Switzerland! [[Rumors]] Correct the billions of euros in EREs because you lie in parliamentary office.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u72	Mrs Vazquez, I have given you the floor and you have said what you are asking for is the correction of billions. I give the floor to Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u73	I said that they have gone through the ERE sink and that they said they were going to get it back and their advisor said that he had only recovered 0.1% of billions. If you want me to say the exact figure, I don't have Judge Alaya's car right now, but at the moment what they have said is that 800 million is safe and that was recognised at parliamentary level by your group. [[Rumors]] Right here it's said...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u74	Mrs. Romero, I think this incident...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u75	I am referring to the money that has been officially recognized in court proceedings. If you want me to withdraw the amount, I refer to what has now been recognised in court, which can then be expanded in the 'Diary of Sessions' if more is recognized. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u76	I believe the incident has been properly resolved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u77	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives relating to the draft Organic Law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents and the draft Law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, which, as agreed at the Board of Spokesmen, will be discussed cumulatively. In order to defend the amendments made to these initiatives by the Joint Group, Mrs Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG shares some of the amendments that both the draft organic law and the draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents introduce, because we understand and agree that they are aimed at improving and strengthening the legal protection of minors. At the time, we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety and have prepared and recorded various amendments to the text with the aim of helping to improve the draft laws. These amendments have, in part, been accepted by the People's Parliamentary Group, and in other cases we have reached compromise drafting agreements. We therefore acknowledge the efforts made to reach agreement with our group, and also the improvement that our accepted amendments introduce in the text, but we do not consider it sufficient. In some specific respects, our amendments have been rejected, which for us are irrevocable and which are basically what I would like to refer to. In our view, the bill does not guarantee economic, material and human resources to carry out the necessary policies that must correct social inequalities. In this regard, our amendment No. 5 to the draft law and No. 1 to the draft organic law, which have been rejected, precisely seek to ensure that these resources ensure that policies to be implemented in the social field are given priority over economic policies of budgetary restraint. Our amendments seek to ensure that resources for the protection of minors are effectively secured by law, in particular those necessary for the public services most relevant to them, such as education and health, and do not remain in a mere declaration of intent, as reflected in the text of the draft law, in the second subparagraph of Article 11(1) of the text, in particular in view of the fact that the tenth final provision limits the increase in public spending commitments for children's policies. Ladies and gentlemen, a law like this has and must have an important economic impact. However, that final provision contains text that the measures included in this rule may not entail an increase in public expenditure or in the provision of salaries or other staff costs. This veto, this ban, de facto turns the law into inviable. On the other hand, in our Amendment No. 8 to the Bill, we have tried to strengthen the rights of children with disabilities with regard to custody, guardianship, custody or adoption. We have done so with the conviction that the signature and ratification by the Spanish State of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities must be carried out in accordance with the laws developed in any field. We don't think that's the way it's done. Our amendment is designed to reflect article 23 of that convention - I insist - signed by the Spanish State at the time. We also propose the deletion of article 2.4 of the draft Organic Law, which provides that decisions and measures taken in the best interests of the child must in any case assess the fundamental rights of other persons who may be affected. We understand that the third paragraph of that article empties any legal provision to serve as the best interests of the child. We consider it unnecessary because it is already obvious that any judicial or administrative action has an obligation to weigh rights in the presence, including the constitutional ones that any person other than the minor might claim. Another issue is that of the draft organic law on qualified professionals or experts with sufficient training to determine the specific needs of children with disabilities, and that the relevant decisions affecting them must have collegiate reports prepared by multidisciplinary technical teams. We propose in our Amendment No 5 that these staff should be staff of the Administrations and that they should have access to them through public and transparent targeted processes. We consider it necessary to do so because the objective should be to avoid outsourcing those jobs that perform intervention and counselling functions to child protection policies. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, most of the rest of our rejected amendments propose amendments or deletions to the text, which clearly aims to invade Galicia's own competences and to standardise and homogenise legislation throughout the territory of the State. As in all the laws and decrees that have been passed in this legislature, the invasion and the re-centralization of competences also remain on the substance of these laws and decrees. In our case, our statute clearly reflects the competence for the protection of minors. These bills, again, place state law above the competences of the autonomous communities. The most serious, if any, is that of international adoption. The amendments to these draft laws establish that the decision to authorize adoptions in individual countries is the responsibility of the State Administration, which will also assume the role of accrediting international adoption partners. Our amendments, in this sense, are in the opposite direction and are aimed at maintaining the current distribution of competences in the field of international adoption, avoiding the re-centralisation that is intended and which, in our view, will also lead to further slowing down and dysfunction in processes that are already sufficiently complex today. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons we will not support the opinion and will therefore not be able to vote in favour of the adoption of the draft laws. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating today two bills aimed at modifying the system of protection for children and adolescents, which has been dealt with through two laws, one of an organic and one of an ordinary nature. Although I have already defended my amendments in the Commission, I think it is appropriate to comment here again on our position. I would like to make a reference to the complexity of the source system affecting the two rules. In the area of the protection of minors, since Organic Law 1/1996, on the Legal Protection of Minors, that part that affects the partial amendment of the Civil Code - the Civil Prosecution Law - has been governing a complex system of sources in order to preserve the different autonomous competences, without apparently the two draft laws in process modifying it. On the one hand, there are aspects to be regulated by organic law because they directly affect the development of fundamental rights and public freedoms of minors and, to the extent that they affect the essential content of these rights and freedoms, it will obviously be the responsibility of the State to regulate them, under article 81 of the Constitution. Let it be clear that we do not discuss this; we are very respectful of the block of constitutionality. In the area of ordinary legislation, Organic Law 1/1996 provides for the possibility of regulatory asymmetries arising from the autonomous competition framework. In fact, its twenty-first additional provision preserves the autonomous powers of a normative nature that some autonomous communities have in the field of social assistance and civil, own and foral law. Full powers, the purest. To this end, it also designates a number of articles of the State law which, by addressing aspects relating to social services for the care of the child and its organization declares them supplementary to the autonomous law. We understand this to mean that it will apply to the extent that the autonomous community with competence for social assistance lacks such legislation. The rest of the precepts which are not of an organic nature therefore have an ordinary nature and, again, there is the additional provision, to which I have referred, which distinguishes two groups: the precepts which the State gives under its own normative titles in the field of international relations, the Administration of Justice and procedural legislation, and the other precepts which the State gives under its competence in civil law and which the autonomous communities with competence in the field of own, special and foral civil law, as provided for in article 148.1 of the Constitution, shall apply without prejudice to autonomous legislation. What this bill does - here our differences begin - is to expand the list of precepts of an organic nature, amending the additional provision twenty-third of Organic Law 1/1996. This extension, in short, extends the number of precepts which have the character of civil law and which will therefore apply without prejudice to the autonomous powers in the field of civil law foral and special, where the precepts of the Act of the Basque Parliament 3/2005, in our case, of 18 February, on the care and protection of children and adolescents, could also be framed. This, in our view, implies a clear re-centralisation, which I will explain a posteriori, which generates important situations of normative collision and, therefore, of legal uncertainty. We could talk long and hard about the amendments contained in the rule, but I would like to refer to some of the amendments made by this group, and particularly those that we have raised with regard to ordinary law. It introduces amendments to the Civil Code, which significantly affect the rules of private international law, on conflict rules relating to the law applicable to filiation, the protection of minors and maintenance obligations. It should be said that, in the current wording, autonomous public entities are at the centre of the system of international adoption and have a significant number of powers. This has normative relevance, but it also has practical relevance from the point of view of proximity policies. Moreover, the wide-ranging attribution of powers to autonomous public bodies, which came from Law 54/2007, sought to respect the competences of the protection of minors. However, with this rule there is a devaluation of exclusive competences of the autonomous communities, which implies that state competences have become unstoppable limits for the autonomic legislator... [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] It's a lot of fun, isn't it? I'd advise you to listen to me. He said that State powers have become unstoppable limits for the autonomic legislator, through which the State can unilaterally widen its scope for action in a matter and correlately reduce that of the autonomous communities, even in matters that already have autonomous regulation, and I referred to them earlier. This is precisely the misuse that we have repeatedly denounced of the provisions of article 149.1 of the Constitution, which has the sole purpose of re-centralizing. This is a gum that is being adapted to the convenience of the Government and the People's Group, which in principle supports those who draft the laws. In this case, the bill has decided to broaden the scope of the General Administration of the State in international adoptions, assuming the leading role in everything that has some kind of external projection and passing on the autonomous public entities to perform an exclusively collaborative function. In this respect, amendments 84 and 85 by the Basque Group have been tabled and have not been accepted. What does the State do for that? It adds to article 4, paragraph 1, a new title called foreign policy, in which the General Administration of the State assumes a lot of functions, which I will not enumerate, that so far were exercised in a peaceful and collaborative manner by the responsible administrations, in our case the outlaws, taking into account in all the special regime of distribution of competences that we have in the Basque Country, in such a way that the General Administration of the State assumes functions of accreditation of the collaborating agencies that in the current legislation develop, as it said, peacefully, without any problem, the autonomous public entities. We have also tabled an amendment, which has been accepted in connection with the amendment to Article 5(1) concerning the legal protection of minors, so that the full integration of foreign minors into Spanish society can be achieved, but as long as they remain in the territory of the Spanish State. This amendment has been accepted by the Group of the European People's Party and I thank you. I am not going back to the subject of foreign policy, I think it has become sufficiently clear that we disagree one hundred per cent on all those matters which affect this issue and which have been included in our amendments - which have not been accepted - to understand that they not only create new ex novo competences for the State, but that they re-centralise and deprive the public authorities who have so far managed the possibility of continuing to exercise them when - I repeat, because it is necessary to repeat it - it has been an absolutely peaceful issue and has not had any dissent. In this respect, we have also made amendments to Articles 4 and 5 of the rule concerning the intervention of these public bodies. An amendment has been accepted by the Group of the European People's Party on international adoption, which we consider to be relevant but not sufficient. We have called for the deletion of Article 3(8) because it undermines the competences assumed by the autonomous communities and violates the division of competences in this area. We also make an amendment to Article 3(9) in line with the previous amendments. And, of course, we cannot allow our amendment on a reserve reserve because, as you are well aware, the first additional provision of the Constitution establishes the obligation to preserve the historical rights of the Basque territories, and obviously the social assistance rights, which are dealt with in that area, are pre-constitutional rights dealt with by the outlaws and cannot be affected, and not only that, but also the issues relating to the expenditure limit, to which the Member of the BNG has also referred. Obviously, we enjoy - and I say we enjoy it because it is worth noting - a differentiated economic and fiscal regime, the regime of Economic Concert, which is also pre-constitutional and should not be limited. I'm gonna wrap this up. Good work has been done on this law. We share and consider necessary a very important part of the regulatory changes proposed in the two rules, and we recognize that a great work has been done from the perspective of dialogue with other bodies, with other administrations and with the various partners, which has made it possible to incorporate numerous improvements into the initial text. By the way, it has been an exceptional job because it is not the usual; it is the exception that confirms the rule. In the technical part of the rules there is a broad consensus with small discrepancies, which would allow us to vote in favour of the opinion. However, there are still issues that can be adjusted to the forecasts of the constitutional bloc. In this regard, we want both the Government and the group that supports it to reflect on the time remaining until their final approval after their passage through the Senate and their return to this House and that in this period of time we can adjust these issues that I have made clear, especially in the area of international adoption and foral reservation. Our vote today cannot be favourable. If that were accepted, it would be. Today we will abstain in a gesture of goodwill to try to reach that consensus before the final vote in this House during the summer. Thank you very much, President, for your generosity.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u82	Thank you, President. I will start with a question that my colleague from the Basque Parliamentary Group raised at the end of his speech. Indeed, it is to be thanked for the work of the presentation and the Commission, for the consensus that has been achieved and for the effort that has been made by all groups. Particularly, as always, if there is no receptivity on the part of the majority, it is impossible for others to work, and in that sense I am grateful that progress has been made, that everyone has been counted on and that work has been done that is undoubtedly positive for all. The Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy maintains nine amendments to the second of the two Acts alive, and what happens is that two of them are common to the first I am going to defend now and the other two are the first of the projects, to number 130. We are keeping a common sense amendment alive. We want to delete the fourth final provision of this bill, which is common to the final provision of the following, which states that the measures included in this rule will not be able to increase public spending. As we have said many times, if there is no increase in public spending on measures as ambitious as these we are talking about, it is truly a toast to the sun. Frankly, we understand the economic difficulties, but that a law that is being passed is said in its exposition and in all its content that is ambitious, that comes to solve problems - although not all are arranged with money but some do require it - is like denying in that final provision everything that has been said previously. We therefore want that final provision to be deleted in this and in the next law. We also propose to this draft law an amendment of addition, a new additional provision concerning the adoption of an organic law on transsexuality, which coincides with the same amendment in the following legislative text. My group knows and understands that this is a complicated issue, so we call on the Government in this additional provision for the adoption of an organic law on transsexuality; for the referral to the courts, for the debate and subsequent adoption of an organic law on transsexuality. It's easy to explain. First, this is a reality that exists in Spain and, therefore, if it is a reality, it must be answered, the demand is real. As exclusive competence conferred by the Constitution in article 149, the State has the responsibility to guarantee equality for all Spaniards and also to lay the foundations and coordinate health in general. Despite this, your ladies and gentlemen know that at present people who want or need - I want to stress this, want or need - to change sex do not have the same rights or benefits throughout the national territory. The principle of equality, which is not a minor political principle, is therefore broken. It is the fundamental political and democratic principle, the principle of equality for all Spaniards, apart from the part of Spain in which they live. Jurisdiction is exclusive; it is the responsibility of the regular State and the protection of rights. If at the moment there is a demand and an unmet reality and there are only three autonomous communities that have regulated it - in addition to different ways, therefore, there is insufficient coherence and coordination - it is clear that there is a legal vacuum, there is a lack of political response and of legal response to this need and to this reality. Only three autonomous communities have legislated to integrate and normalize the situation of transsexuals; this is what it is about, to normalize, to make normal and to have a treatment and a response from the normal State; the one they demand, the one they need, the one they require. Only Navarra, the Basque Country and the Autonomous Community of Andalusia have passed laws in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, it is striking that, despite the increase in this type of demand, there is still no common regulatory framework which unifies minimum rights and benefits throughout the national territory, a common framework and minimum benefits and rights throughout the national territory, something elementary in a rule of law and in a nation like Spain in terms of competence in this field which is State-owned. Nor do there exist, because there is no national regulation, specific reference units that provide information to those who wish to do so on access to treatment or assistance that ensures insertion, counselling and awareness of transsexuality. Ladies and gentlemen, understanding the complexity of this matter, how to deal with it and how to resolve it, we cannot look elsewhere and let each autonomous community, through its parliaments, make partial, sometimes contradictory, and in any case partial and insufficient decisions on a subject of these characteristics, sensitive and necessary, because there are citizens who deserve and have the right to demand a response from the State. With regard to the second proposal for a law, bearing the number 131 and the same name, amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, in addition to these two amendments to which I have already referred, we have tabled seven other amendments which aim to regulate in the best way and thus to protect the rights and duties of the host families; both things, recognizing the rights of foster families and demanding or putting forward in the same text the duties, because the person who has the rights has duties. Therefore, the rights and duties of foster families should be regulated and the regulation of such families improved. The first of the amendments seeks to recognise the right of foster families to continue to have a relationship with the child in care, the second of the amendments seeks to recognize the duty of foster families to cooperate in changing the situation of the child. The minor leaves, but those families that have welcomed him have a lot to say, a lot to contribute and the duty - and this should be considered in the law - to help change the situation of the minor, who moves to another situation or, in any case, to another family environment. A third amendment, which has to do, as I said before, with family support, with better regulation, is a new text, a new article 20 within a new paragraph too. I know that it has not been possible either in the presentation or in the Commission, we have not had time - I have not had it in particular - to discuss perhaps all the ends of this article, which we propose to incorporate. I hope that the sensibility of the majority group will reflect on it and take into account, at least, the philosophy of what is proposed here for debate in the Senate. The aim is to better regulate family care as a preferred means of care and, as such, it needs a regulation that promotes knowledge of the figure throughout the population, as well as to improve the training and resources of families that receive children. It is not just a question of knowing that it exists, but of giving an entity and regulating that measure better. Finally, and in order not to go any further, President, I would like to highlight an amendment by which we try to correct a contradiction which we believe exists in the text by a resolution of the Senate a few years ago and which has not been incorporated. You know that a special committee was set up in the Senate to study the problem of national adoption and other related issues and that, as a result of the work of that committee, in which many experts and of course all parliamentary groups participated, it was proposed that it be legally established that children under six years of age could not be placed in reception centres, and that that fact was exceptional. The report recognizes that any child who, during the first three years of life, has not been able to establish safe ties with one or two stable persons will be affected by his or her personal development in a very significant way to trust the human being, to learn from experience, to understand and regulate his or her own emotions, to have self-esteem, to relate or to learn to live together. That is one of the important conclusions of that committee that was set up in the Senate. The adopted text also states that residential care for children under six years of age should be legally phased out, so that the measure is effective at first in the zero-three-year period and that it should be extended within a reasonable period of time to six years. Ladies and gentlemen, more than four years have passed since the adoption of this report and this measure has not been implemented in a national standard. This would be the norm and what is gathered here is not enough. This would be the rule in which to implement that resolution of that special committee that was set up in the Senate. That is why we propose that the section regulating children under six years of age should be deleted from the article and that the exceptional case should also be taken into account. It is not an ideological pretension of our group, it is not something that has occurred to us, it is simply to use this moment to reflect on the conclusions that were made in the Senate with the collaboration, as I say, of very expert people and with a continuous work of all parliamentary groups and to bring it to the norm. No more or less than that. I think it would be possible and very positive, so I hope, since this rule is going to come to the Senate, that even the groups that debated it there and that have the results of that special committee set up there alive will be able to accept this amendment which is going to be rejected here. President, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mr Pérez Moya has the floor for the Plural Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u84	Mr. President. We said in the full debate that the introduction of the bill was an opportunity to be able to develop a law for the protection of children and adolescents in an integral way; a law on children and adolescents where all legislative bodies can be harmonized, to square state legislation with the autonomous legislation that already exists at the moment. It is very important to address the full spectrum of risk factors that threaten the lives of children, adolescents and their families by insisting on the dimension of cross-cutting participation in everything that affects them. In this regard, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, is a good guide that unfortunately the draft law and the opinion of the presentation have not just resolved. In two sections I will focus the intervention, which brings together both the part of the organic law and the general law. One would be the competition section and the other would be the whole development of rights and duties. It is necessary to preserve the autonomous powers of a normative nature that some autonomous communities possess in the field of social assistance and civil law. It is necessary for the Government to recognize that in the area of children there are autonomous communities which, both through the competence of social assistance and through competence in their own civil law, have produced a normative development that has had a positive impact on the protection of children, which has also had and has a clear influence on the draft law that we are debating today. It should also be borne in mind that, in order to address aspects relating to social services for the care of minors and their organization, these should be declared by law as substitutes for autonomous legislation in this area. The implementation of this law should not prevent those autonomous communities with legislation on children, such as Catalonia or the Basque Country, from deciding in which countries Catalan families can adopt. Despite the will of the Government support group for consensus, the bill has decided to broaden the scope of the General State Administration in international adoptions by assuming a leading role in everything that has some kind of external projection and by moving the autonomous entities to a collaborative role. The General Administration of the State takes on the functions of accreditation of the collaborating agencies that in the current legislation develop the autonomous communities. We therefore disagree with the will of the group supporting the Government. The other day in the Commission the representative of the People's Party said that the amendment of these laws seeks uniform protection throughout the territory of the State and constitutes a reference for the autonomous communities in developing their own legislation. This cannot imply a violation of the competences of the autonomous communities that already have legislation in this regard; nor can it imply a further step in their re-centralizing offensive. They must respect the competition framework. Finally, in the section of the competences of the autonomous communities and the invasions, which we understand, or the contradictions raised by the draft law which we are debating, we appreciate that they have decided to accept that this law is enacted under the exclusive jurisdiction to dictate the civil legislation attributed to the State by article 149.1.8a of the Constitution, but without prejudice to the preservation, modification and development by the autonomous communities of civil or foreign rights where they exist. On the other hand, we also value respect for the exclusive powers of the autonomous communities over the statutory regime of staff in the service of public administrations. However, we cannot understand why they have not agreed to introduce the same safeguard of the competences of the autonomous communities that already have their own civil law in the matter of person, family and protection of children and youth to dictate special procedural rules deriving from the particularities of their substantive law in these matters. This law - now in the other section, in the area of rights, duties and therefore the fundamental elements of the protection of children and adolescents - provides an opportunity to address the challenges posed by the reality of childhood and adolescence to bring our legislation into line with the international standards of rights and responsibilities of children and adolescents expressed and recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizes children as capable persons, with certain rights and duties, with the right to express their views, decide and do, to a greater or lesser extent, in all matters affecting them. The balance of the law we are discussing is lost in the unprotectiveness of children and adolescents as they are treated from a paternalistic, protectionist and disabling perspective as social actors vis-à-vis adult citizens. We appreciate the recognition of the amendments tabled by this group with regard to persons with disabilities and their accessibility to all media, policies and services for children with disabilities. Also the amendments that refer to strengthening family care in the face of residential care, the inclusion of the right to be heard, the assessment of maturity by specialized staff, that personal records and searches are carried out by staff of the same sex. Common sense, ladies and gentlemen, just as it is common sense to recognize that the poverty situation of parents, guardians and guardians cannot be taken into account in assessing the situation of helplessness; common sense, I insist, common sense. However, we regret that they did not accept amendments that were necessary for this group to deal with really important issues in relation to children and adolescents. For example, do we not understand the Government's commitment to maintain a chapter devoted to regulating the duties of the child, and regulating his or her rights and protecting them? Nor do we understand that they do not see the need to have educators and sociologists in cases of residential care in specific protection centres for children with behavioural problems. Nor can we understand that they do not accept an amendment of ours which states that an immigrant whose passport or valid document equivalent to that of identity is released from his or her minority cannot be considered an undocumented alien to be subjected to additional proof of his or her age; the passport must never be questioned. Nor can we understand that they have not agreed to introduce into the text of this law - in this case the general one - that foreign minors who meet the circumstances provided for in the programmes of preparation for independent life are entitled to legal residence in Spain. If this were not added, they would be left without legal residence, as they became extolled, leaving them on the street. We think the creation of a central register of sex offenders is a bottle error. Finally, we continue to believe that it is irresponsible to establish that the measures included in this rule will not be able to increase public expenditure, as well as appropriations, salaries and other staff costs. It is clear that this bill entails an increase in expenditure in terms of the provision of salaries and staff costs. This contrasts with the evolution of allocations in the State General Budgets to care for children and families, which have been halved since 2011. To believe that the implementation of a law like this can be carried out without increasing budget allocations is either to sin naivety or to believe that from the beginning it cannot be implemented and we are very much afraid that this is also the aim of the group supporting the Government. Step forward? Maybe. Insufficient? Obviously. Unhappily missed occasion. We cannot support a bill that rejects the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. We hope that on the return of the Senate we will be able to support a law that we consider essential for the children and adolescents of our country. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. Mr Campuzano has the floor for the Catalan Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. We have had an intensive parliamentary process, in which we must appreciate the efforts made by the People's Group in accepting amendments - we must thank the Members of the People's Group for this attitude - which have made it possible to improve non-minor issues in the draft law, but the nuclear issues that led to the introduction of the amendment to the whole of Convergence i Joined the ordinary law so far have not been resolved and we therefore maintain our rejection of this draft law. I have to say that our amendments, in addition to the competitive discussion I am going to enter logically, have focused on a number of issues: strengthening the principle of the general interest of the child and his right to be heard, strengthening the adaptation of legislation to the International Convention on Persons with Disabilities and in all that has to do with accessibility to services, regulating in a more secure way the measures for the safety and containment of minors in reception centres, strengthening the principle of family care in the face of residential care, with concrete measures that will enable families to fulfil this commitment with greater capacity. We have also addressed the issue of the situation of undocumented foreign minors - I have to say that in this area, unfortunately, none of our amendments have been accepted and some respond to the jurisprudence that is being established on a matter that is very sensitive - and we have tabled amendments aimed at strengthening the rights of minors in a situation of greater fragility. We wanted to improve our regulation of large families, we put forward our proposal for a child benefit - I will refer to it at the end - and we wanted to change the limits of expenditure or budgetary restraint that the bill intervened. These have been the main axes, beyond the competence issues of our amendments. And, as I said a moment ago, indeed, some of these issues have made progress, both in improving the protection of minors living in more fragile units, who need greater public support, and in the case of families hosting children. In this respect, the last transaction that the Members of the People's Group have offered us, which includes for the purposes of large families children in foster care or guardianship, seems important to us. [[The lady]] It is a demand posed both by the associations that bring together the host families and by the associations of the large families themselves. If we had to assess our position strictly on these issues, we would certainly not be so far away from the Government and the People's Group in this bill, but, as most of the speakers who have so far spoken - from the Mixed Group, the Basque Group and the Plural Left - have shown, the bill has not satisfactorily resolved the competitive invasion. It does not resolve it because it maintains a large number of articles, especially in ordinary law, as a preferential right over autonomous legislation, which will cause confusion in the courts, disputes between public administrations and, ultimately, greater insecurity for citizens. Here we have tabled an amendment which sought to recover what had been an adequate division of powers, the one existing in the legislation in force so far, in which essentially the legislation of the State in this area was of a supplementary nature. That has allowed things to work properly over the past few years. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is abducted by a certain ideological conception in which you confuse uniformity with equality. Equality of rights - I do not remember which of the honourable Members expressed it in the debate in the Commission - is not determined by uniformity in policies. On the contrary, uniformity ends up reducing the possibilities for improving rights. And what allows rights to be exercised and exercised in conditions is the development of good policies. Precisely, if thirty-five years ago we had a Constitution that gave the autonomous communities the freedom to build public policies that would respond to the political, social and economic choices of the citizens of those territories, expressed through their autonomous parliaments, we did so, above all, convinced that releasing that energy from the proximity, from the territory and from the knowledge of what the problems were would lead to better public policies and better legislation. So much so that, in the substantive part of this bill, much of the inspiration comes precisely from the development that Catalonia has made in the area of child protection. Uniformity does not guarantee better rights or better policies. Uniformity tends to cause lower levels, often very mediocre, and that we cannot share. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in a matter in which we are particularly sensitive in Catalonia, such as international adoption, you are putting to the ground what has been a successful practice that has worked in Catalonia in the last fifteen or twenty years or so. In the field of international adoption Catalonia had developed, in cooperation and collaboration with the General Administration of the State, a real structure of State. It was the Government of Catalonia that decided with which countries the families could adopt; it was the Government of Catalonia that decided which entities could carry out the adoption processes in those countries; it was the Government of the Generalitat that, when the families adopted the public protocol, established relations with the corresponding Government of the country in question and, I insist, it was done in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And there, relying on the Foreign Service Act, the greatest example of re-centralisation in this legislature, you are going to the most conservative, more retrograde, if I may, conception of the logic of foreign policy. The most advanced, autonomous rulings of the Constitutional Court clearly established that, in those areas where the autonomous community is competent, there may be external action and, on the other hand, it has worked without any problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the Convergence and Union Group cannot in any way impassively accept this liquidation of the Catalan model of international adoptions, and we must therefore reject this bill head-on. It is a bill that will end in the Constitutional Court and if the Constitutional Court reaffirms itself in its most advanced and autonomous doctrine, it will recognize that in these matters Catalonia can exercise its powers in coordination with the State. [[The Lord]] On this issue and given the data that the INE published yesterday on child poverty in Spain, my group has the impression that perhaps we need to modernise our legislation on children, safe, but we needed a law against child poverty and an effective commitment from the Government against child poverty. Yesterday the INE told us that child poverty has risen by 3.5 points to 35.4% of those under the age of sixteen. What more do the Government and the People's Group need to understand that child poverty is a major problem in our society? Today, because of the vulnerability of these children, in the medium and long term, poor children are likely to be more likely to fail in schools, more likely to be unemployed, and children who will have bad jobs with low wages when they are adults. We need to make the fight against child poverty a priority and the Government has renounced that policy during this legislature. In this regard, the amendments that Convergence i has tabled Joined the bill to move forward on the path of universalization of the social security child benefit, we believe are essential. We will have finished the legislature without an effective commitment from the Government to the main problem of children in Spain today, which is the problem of child poverty. It is a very big penalty and perhaps another reason to vote against these bills. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u87	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are in the joint debate of two laws, ordinary and organic, on child protection in our country, which our parliamentary group has considered very necessary and urgent. These are bills that already have a wide track and that are suitable at least for the 'Diary of Sessions' that are collected that are laws that come from petitions and recommendations, from the Ombudsman's Office to the Office of the Public Prosecutor, to organizations related to children, that gave rise to the creation of a commission of study in the Senate, whose recommendations arise from the bill that lapsed in the previous legislature for the end of its term of office and that are now repeated in these two bills that come to plenary today. He said that they were necessary laws because we had to adapt our country's rules to the reality of today's society and, among other things, to the recommendations of the Convention of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. The recommendations of this convention needed to be interpreted and transferred to our legal regulations. Therefore, these are necessary laws that we in our parliamentary group have welcomed with great interest and with a very positive attitude. It is a general context of recommendations that we considered relevant to be taken into account in the final articulation of these bills. Ladies and gentlemen, before going into the analysis of the opinion which is being debated today, allow me, as I did in the Committee on Health and Social Services, to make a couple of acknowledgements, first of all to organizations which have worked deeply on these texts and which have collaborated intensively with the parliamentary groups by making suggestions that these parliamentary groups have on many occasions transformed into amendments, many of which have finally been incorporated into the opinion which we are now debating. These are children's organizations, Unicef, Save the Children, the Children's Platform, professional colleges such as the social workers' college, the school of social educators, psychologists, or also foster and adoption family associations, national and international, which have done, I insist, a hard and thorough work that has been very useful to us. It is fair to recognize this and highlight the work of social groups with interests in certain matters and parliamentary work. I do not want to fail to acknowledge the lawyers of the Commission, who have done an excellent job, an excellent opinion, and it seems to us very pertinent that all their assessments have been included in the proceedings of the law. As other parliamentary groups have done, I would also like to mention the good working climate among the various parliamentary groups, which has led to the incorporation of many amendments, some directly and others as compromises incorporated in the opinion we are debating today. Arrived here and finished the stage of previous recognitions, let me put on top of the atrium some sticks that prevent our group from voting in favour of this law, although we sincerely would like to be able to do so, and we do not give up that hope because we still have the Senate procedure, where we hope that some issues will be reconsidered by the majority group. First of all, I have to say that some of the recommendations of the Senate's own study committee and even of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child have not been taken into account, and we believe that they cannot be waived. This set of issues is part of the amendments that we have reserved for today's debate - thirteen to the organic law and thirty-eight to the ordinary law -. The fact is that this debate is taking place at a time when we are once again familiar with the situation of our children. The data that the INE has released this week make more evident the shortcomings that we have been making clear in this law, so that, ladies and gentlemen, if we did at a time of abstraction from the place and debate in which we are and think what is happening and what we are doing in this Parliament, we would say as Asterix: These Romans are crazy! These Romans are crazy because it can't be, it's not possible that we're talking about child protection and we're saying that we're not going to spend another euro on it. It is not possible that today we are going to vote for a real decree to increase budgetary credit of 20 billion euros, all very important, all the very important policies, but, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have a euro for child protection is very hard, it is very hard and it is sincerely very difficult to reconcile with support for the law. [[Applauds]] This is the substance of the amendments that we have reserved. With 20 billion and 800 million for Defense, how much would be done in child protection with 800 million, ladies and gentlemen! The amendments that our parliamentary group has reserved because they were not admitted or incorporated into the opinion have to do, first of all, with the introduction of the law, which requires more resources to strengthen social services, for residential care centres, which are regulated in this law and are improved, for children's centres with behavioural disorders, for foster families, for improvements in adoption procedures, for the improvement of the administration of justice, for all these services it is clear that resources are needed for social services and municipal social services, against what Minister Montoro said yesterday, who said that agreements can be made. It's 8,000 wills. Let us now put 8,000 wills of agreement so that on 31 December the municipal social services will cease to be improper competition and enter into total uncertainty. Those who need to know about child protection, first of all, are social services, mainly municipal social services. [[Applauds]] The latest report of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in its recommendations insists on strengthening public social services and that in no way should any private contribution reduce the responsibility of public services with children. Therefore, this is a very important and important matter. We would like to see an affirmative vote in the vote on our amendments and on the vote of other parliamentary groups on the fourth additional provision of the organic and tenth of the ordinary, in order to incorporate them into this law. It is imperative that there be no such plug, that care services and resources for children be improved. It's just a button, they're next door. It's very easy, it's very easy. As some politician said of these new ones, it's a piece of paper. Well, it's just a button here, it doesn't take much effort. In addition, I insist, we would be in line with the recommendations of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u89	Your Honor, you must conclude, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u90	I'm done, Mr. President. The other great block of amendments that we reserve and which we are very interested in is the attention to the extolled. Many of us have children, but we all have relatives and acquaintances who at the age of eighteen cannot be independent. We have to have some guarantee with the extolled, with the children who become adults and who were extolled children. We can't just throw them out on the street. [[Applauds]] We need to foresee something in this law, because where child protection is most needed is in children who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, especially those of extreme poverty. This is another matter that for us it is essential to incorporate in order to fully support the law. We cannot forget the Minas, foreign minor children, because they disappear six months, because they have fled. They are minors and therefore have to have protection and we cannot disagree with them. Finally, and I am finished, I would like to refer to the host families. Following the Senate's recommendation to promote the culture of foster care, we must have a gesture with the families that make that effort to make a family reference to these children and to approve them in labour rights, in free justice and in co-operatives to adoptive families. I sincerely hope that our amendments will be taken into account in this vote, but, if not, that in the Senate we can take it back and get out of here a law that looks at the reality of our country and take into account the main challenge this country has, which is child poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were starting from an ambitious reform that Minister Alonso and former Minister Mato had previously agreed and worked with the various ministries, the autonomous communities, academics and children and adolescents in the third sector. That same spirit of dialogue and consensus is what we have maintained with the various parliamentary groups during the processing of these two bills and which will continue, as has been said, in the Senate. The parliamentary groups submitted a total of one hundred and forty-three amendments to the draft organic law and two hundred and eighty-nine amendments to the ordinary law. In total, in addition to the two projects, we have adopted one hundred and fifty amendments in their own terms and forty transactions, of which more than half were signed by more than one parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] All this would not have been possible without the work and praiseworthy work of María Teresa Martín and Blanca Puyuelo, who throughout all these weeks have been working with the various opposition groups, to which I would also like to thank them for the will and work they have devoted, as I would like to do, as it could not otherwise be, to the associations, the academics and the third sector with which we have worked to introduce the amendments that the People's Parliamentary Group has also contributed. Therefore, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, an important consensus effort has been made in this process and, of course, we have complied - contrary to what has been said here - with the recommendations of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Having said that, they are going to allow me to remind the Socialist Group of something, that one of the things we should take into account at this time is the budget allocation. First, it is true that you presented a text, which was adopted in extremis at the Council of Ministers in July 2011, just when the House was to be dissolved. It is also true that in that text you did not take into account either child victims of gender-based violence or large families or, for example, the United Nations definition of the best interests of the child. However, they did take into account the cost impact memory and, after all, a literal copy of its text has been moved to the text that is presented in the House. [[Applauds]] Literary of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. This means that you have a double measuring rod: when it is you who present it, it is magnificently fine; however, when it is the People's Parliamentary Group, in this case the Government of Spain, everything seems wrong to us. No, you begin to be just and equitable, two characteristics that you cannot recognize at the moment. The demagogy they've come to leads us to have to tell you two more things. You were referring - and Mr Campuzano has also done - to the data that were known yesterday, data that we think tremendous, but that we cannot forget that they are from the year 2013. At the time, Spain had not yet been able to undertake the major reforms which today draw an absolutely different picture and in which we continue to work, because, for example, the labour reform still did not bear fruit; the educational reform and the part of it corresponding to vocational training was not approved; the entrepreneurship and youth strategy, from which more than 380,000 young people benefited, was also not taken up. In April, more than 14,150 new indefinite contracts were signed with children under 25 and in the last three years of the previous legislature, however, 210,000 young people were sent to unemployment. At the end of the socialist legislature - the same one to which the economic memory that was referring - you sent 3.5 million Spaniards to unemployment. That is the most destructive policy that led us to the X-ray that was known yesterday in Spain. Now, there are positive data as I said before. The European Commission has been making recommendations to Spain on poverty, and today, however, the recommendations it makes for 2015 no longer contemplate child poverty, already consider that progress has been made and that the policies that have been put in place will bear fruit. In any case, I insist, neither the Government nor the People's Parliamentary Group are satisfied with what we are doing, we are much more ambitious and of course resolve the situation that the Spanish are experiencing. The issue of competition has been discussed. It seems to me a barbarity that one can say that we are kidnapped by uniformity. It's not like that, under no circumstances. Those words which have been poured out by Convergence i Unió do not correspond to the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group and even less to that of the Government itself. It's not like that. You say there has been a competitive invasion of child protection. It's not like that. The main objective of the reform is precisely to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of the family and in particular that of minors, in accordance with international agreements and with what is stated in article 39 of the Spanish Constitution, i.e. the equality enshrined in article 14. With regard to the protection of minors, it should be noted that the exclusive competence of the State for the protection of minors in the statutes is limited to the exclusive competence of the State, including that of civil law. The reality of the autonomous communities with civil law is not ignored at all, it is absolutely respectful, but we have to remember that in the area of civil law one does not annoy the competence of the State, as provided for in article 149 of the Constitution. As for international adoption as a flagrant invasion of autonomous competition, it is not true, ladies and gentlemen. The decision to authorise adoptions in the different countries of origin, as well as the role of accrediting collaborating entities for international adoption, is based on Article 149 of the Spanish Constitution, which is exclusive competence in the field of external relations. Moreover, the Constitutional Court - as we were told earlier - in its judgment 165/1994 includes within the competence of the foreign relations reserved to the State the possibility of establishing measures regulating and coordinating the activities with external projection of the autonomous communities, in order to avoid or remedy any damage to the direction and implementation of the foreign policy which is exclusively the responsibility of the State authorities. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the reform is absolutely respectful of the autonomous communities, it is not retrograde, we cannot talk about the liquidation of the model, much less. Both the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council and the Council of State support the regulation provided for in this competition reform. As regards the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to highlight some of them, in which both the co-rapporteurs mentioned above and some of the Members of this parliamentary group have participated. Two of them refer to trafficking. One proposes to extend the period of re-establishment and reflection to 90 days so that victims of trafficking in human beings can decide their cooperation with the authorities in the investigation of the crime. The thirty-day one was insufficient, given the seriousness of the crime of trafficking and the profound consequences it has on its victims. In the same vein, we intend to encourage the recruitment of victims of trafficking through the establishment of bonuses in the company's social security contributions: EUR 1,500/year for two years in case of indefinite recruitment and EUR 600/year during the term of the contract in case of temporary recruitment. [[Applauds]] With regard to large families, we intend to establish retroactively to 1 January 2015 the benefits in the educational field of the large family status established in the draft ordinary law and to provide special care for pregnant children under guardianship or custody of the public body, who will thus receive the appropriate advice and support to their situation. In this sense, the individual protection plan will include this circumstance, as well as the protection of the newborn. From the People's Parliamentary Group, neither the poverty of parents nor the disability of the child can be the circumstances for declaring the situation of helplessness. Finally, I would like to highlight the amendment that creates a central register of sex offenders to monitor and control people convicted of these crimes, not only in Spain but also in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, these bills guarantee a uniform legal framework for children and adolescents throughout the national territory and strengthen the protection of minors, especially those in a situation of greater vulnerability. Spain is the first country to incorporate the defence of the best interests of the child as an interpretative principle of substantive law and rule of procedure, as recommended by the United Nations in 2013. It states that all draft laws and regulations must assess their impact on children and adolescents before they are adopted. In turn, a new framework for the rights and duties of minors is established, with particular attention to the most vulnerable, such as unaccompanied foreign minors, extolled young people or children with disabilities. For the first time, the risk situations of the child, as well as the declaration of helplessness, are defined with State scope. Reception and adoption procedures are expedited, and family solutions are prioritized over residential ones. Children will be considered victims of gender-based violence, and the reform regulates for the first time the centres for children with behavioural problems. Finally, the Law on the Protection of Large Families is amended so that they do not lose the title until the last of the children reaches the established age, 21 or 26 if they are studying. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an ambitious reform that has been worked out and agreed with the autonomous communities, with the third sector, with the parliamentary groups, and with the academics. In the parliamentary procedure, the People's Group has demonstrated - and has been reflected in the speeches of the various members of the parliamentary groups - the commitment it has made, and has agreed and adopted nearly two hundred amendments. Now it is you, the different groups, who with your vote will have to demonstrate whether or not they put the best interests of the minor before their party interests in some cases, and nationalist prejudices in others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u94	We turn to the agenda item on the direct and single reading of the draft law amending Act No. 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, as item 33 of the agenda has expired, because the only amendment to the whole of the agenda has been withdrawn. No amendments have been tabled to this draft, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we move directly to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Barkos. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u95	Minister, you have the floor. Mrs. Barkos, excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. He understood that it was primarily for the Government to make a defence or explanation of this bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u97	Yes, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u98	Anyway, I'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to the Congress of Deputies today the draft law amending the Economic Convention between the State and Navarre. It is a text that has been negotiated in the Coordinating Commission of the Economic Convention governing the relations of Navarre and the State, agreed within the Negotiating Commission of the Convention, and approved by the Parliament of Navarre before the Government of Spain referred it to the Courts for ratification as a draft law. We are therefore faced with a text that represents in a remarkable way the essence of our State of autonomy, based on the diversity of Spain, on the respect and protection of historical rights, and at the same time on solidarity between the different territories belonging to the same country and living together under the same Constitution. The Economic Convention between the State and Navarre is not a privilege of a given autonomous community nor does it discriminate against one citizen against another, but rather an instrument of relationship, peculiar, different, which derives from our own Constitution; an instrument in which the tax norm of the State is in line, and which has the necessary mechanisms to make that relationship beneficial, both for the Foral Community and for the whole of Spain. The Economic Convention gives Navarra ample room for manoeuvre in the management of tax obligations, and in the power of the community to establish and regulate its own taxes, while ensuring respect for the laws of the general regime of the State, and Navarra's contribution to the inter-territorial solidarity that is also protected by our Constitution. In addition, the Economic Convention has its own instruments of coordination and arbitration to resolve any discrepancies and conflicts that may arise in the relations between the State and Navarre, and with the amendment that we are now proposing for ratification by the General Courts, with the aim of reducing litigation between administrations and avoiding harm to taxpayers. The Economic Convention has broad social support among the citizens of Navarre and of course among all the Spaniards, who understand the outside institutions of this community not as a disintegration, but as a way of understanding Spain and its belonging to it. There is nothing in the foreign institutions of Navarre that separates them or separates them from Spain; quite the contrary, because they are institutions whose survival has been maintained and developed with various historical avatars over the centuries, and which today have, in addition to the legitimacy that the popular roots give, the legal and political legitimacy that the Constitution offers for more than thirty-six years, a framework of coexistence of all Spaniards. Undoubtedly, the amendments introduced make it the most advanced possible economic convention, in two ways: on the one hand, in the tax field, by the incorporation and adaptation to the norm of various taxes that have been approved by the Government of Spain since the previous amendment of the convention, in the year 2011; on the other hand, because it strengthens and expands the autonomy of Navarre, in addition to improving - as I have insisted previously - the coordination and integration between the Finance of Navarre and the State. Indeed, after this amendment, various taxes approved by the General Courts in recent years are incorporated into the Economic Convention with retroactive effect. Specifically, the gambling tax, the value of electricity production tax, the spent nuclear fuel production tax, the storage tax on nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, the deposit tax on credit institutions, and the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases. The agreement also adapts to the replacement of the retail sales tax on certain hydrocarbons, known as the health cent, by an autonomous rate of the excise duty on hydrocarbons, and to the recent amendment of the excise duty on electricity. In addition, it is stipulated that the withholding tax on lottery prizes received by Navarro residents shall be entered in the Treasury of the Foral Community. It is fair to point out that since the amendment of the convention, tax groups will have to be made up only of companies governed by the same rules, whether foral or common, without the possibility of mixed groups. The tax consolidation regime will therefore be that for the Foral Community where the dominant company and all dependents are subject to the foral rules under the individual taxation regime, and the tax consolidation regime for the common territory where the dominant company and all dependents are also subject to the common taxation regime under the individual taxation regime. On the other hand, the Convention introduces changes which essentially deepen the autonomy of the Foral Community. I certainly believe that this area is very important, because it demonstrates the progress that can be made when the dialogue between the governments, the Government of the Foral Community and the Government of Spain, takes place from the point of view of respect for the Constitution and institutional loyalty, as the case that has led us today to bring about this regulatory change. It also demonstrates our capacity for dialogue and our willingness to improve the self-government of the communities that want to go a step further in their autonomy, provided that this step does not become a race that seeks to transcend the constitutional borders and sovereignty of the Spanish people as a whole. In the case of the Economic Convention, Article 2 is amended to highlight Navarra's tax power, so as to ensure that the Foral Community can establish and regulate taxes different from those already mentioned in the Convention, always from the point of view of the law of the general regime of the State, and of the principles and criteria for the harmonization of the Convention itself. In addition, Article 6 is amended in order to improve coordination mechanisms between the State Administration and the Foral Community. This amendment will allow for the convening of the coordinating commission, or the subcommission to which the commission delegates, at the time of the submission of a bill by the Government of Spain establishing a new tax at the State level, to assess and analyse the adaptation of the convention to the new tax figure projected throughout the State. In other words, Navarra will be able to know and give its opinion on the basic lines of the future convention of the new tax figures that are projected, even before they enter into force throughout the State. In the area of improved coordination between the two public administrations, the State and the foral, an amendment is also made to article 67 of the Economic Convention, which aims to speed up the referral of tax consultations to the Board of Referees on which no agreement has been reached in the coordinating committee. In this way, the Board of Referees, which has a truly important role as an institution, and which is able to bring positions closer among administrations, acquires greater relevance in reducing litigation. I am convinced, because of my status as Minister of Finance and Public Administrations, and of course - and I must insist on it and underline it - as a sincere advocate of the fiscal singularities existing in Spain, that the amendment of the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, which we bring here today for ratification, after being approved by the autonomous Parliament, politically strengthens the self-government of Navarre in the fiscal field, while improving the framework of relations between the State and the Foral Community. After this bill the General Courts will have ratified in just over a year, and with a high degree of consensus, the modification of three main pillars of our fiscal singularity: the Basque Concert, the Fiscal Economic Regime of the Canary Islands, and now the Navarro Economic Convention. There are three different tax economic regimes, such as the tax economic regime of Ceuta and Melilla, which make Spain what it is, a complex country and at the same time proud of its diversity, a country with institutions that do not exist anywhere else in the world, and which works to preserve, enhance and adapt them to political and economic changes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre is a pride for all of us, and let me stress that it is a pride for me. It is the best example of how historical rights and general interests of Spain can be reconciled and defended under the protection of the Constitution and the laws. The amendment to the Convention Act is proof that political dialogue, institutional loyalty, and the will to understand are fundamental to making real progress in the State of Spain's autonomy, and that sensible proposals, within the Constitution and laws, will always be heard by the Government of Spain, and should also be heard by the Parliament of Spain. Navarra is at the origin of the Spanish nation, in its history, in its present and in its future, and that is why its historical rights are and will always be guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws. The updating of the Foral Regime and the impetus of its self-government, under the Constitution, are the best guarantee of political stability for Navarre and of economic and social progress for its citizens. This is the basis for the amendment of the Economic Convention between the State and Navarre, and it is for this reason that the Government requests the House to ratify it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u99	Thank you, Minister. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u100	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are indeed discussing today the updating of the Convention, and I would like to recall that the Convention is certainly the most important financial instrument - and we all recognise that - and a tax on our competition system, and I have to say this year that the last three exercises in this area have not been easy for Navarre at all. [[The lady]] I would like to recall that in March 2012 the Volkswagen case started; in 2013 the President of the Government brought to the Constitution, among others, an appeal of unconstitutionality against the Foral Law - he recalled - that regulated the tax on the value of the production of electricity, an appeal that was quickly settled in favor of the appellant, and only a month later it was known that the State was claiming Navarra in the Supreme Court the payment for the minutes of VAESA. I would say that both actions have a common motivation: to undermine the Foral Self-Government Regime by strangling, on the one hand, the normative capacity, and hindering its financial survival. It is also orchestrated by several autonomous communities of common system - we have also heard it from the mouths of some of its leaders - all governed by the People's Party, which demanded - and we have spoken about it on more than one occasion - the abolition of the Economic Convention as a privilege. I today - and especially today, minister - want to rebut this great lie. It has been consciously concealed in this debate that Navarra contributes, and does so in a responsible and supportive way, to the financing of the general budgets of the State with the annual contribution. Some figures should be remembered. I'm going to give three examples. In 2011, from a budget of EUR 3,968 million in Navarre, Navarra's contribution to the general state burdens amounted to EUR 498 million, i.e. 12.55 %. In 2012 the contribution was 14.27 %. And in 2013, in the midst of the crisis - as we are still following - Navarra's contribution was 15,52 %. Is it too much or too little? So let's contextualize those figures, also in a very, very short way. If we carry out a summary of the per capita budget expenditure in the State and in Spain, and in the Spanish State and in Navarre, we have that in 2013, in the State the per capita budget expenditure was 5,981 euros. In Navarre it was 5,392 euros: 600 euros less the capacity of the supposedly rich, insolidary and privileged community; budget expenditure is reduced by 600 euros per mor of this contribution, as agreed and thus fulfilled, from Navarre to the general coffers of the State. Therefore I insist that as always, but today more than ever, I defend: nothing of privilege! Navarre what it has is a system of own financing under which...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u101	Mrs. Barkos, go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u102	Yeah, I'm going with it. By virtue of which it contributes to the financing of the State budget, with considerably greater width by virtue of the budgetary effort made by the State in Navarre. And to go further along this path - and I'm finishing, president - we are now being proposed a reform of the Convention Law, conditioned by the sword of Damocles of the Volkswagen case. You have heard me say this many times in this rostrum, minister: that it was a mistake to commit the negotiation of the Navarra side jointly. I have said this on many occasions, but it is true: you have won, you have managed to laminate a fundamental tool for the self-government of Navarre, as is the Economic Convention, and you have done so through the reform of Article 2. I therefore announce that we are not going to vote - we cannot vote - in favour of this reform. Mr Montoro, in this last speech in this House I wish you, as all your ladies and gentlemen, the best of luck. But I assure you that the next government that has Navarra is going to defend the positions, the self-government, and the Navarra Convention Act much more firmly than it has done so far. In the next negotiations, as I say, you will have a firm government in the defence of self-government, and on that path I must say from this rostrum that all those invocations to fear - those that have been and those that may be this morning - must not have any way of going, or perhaps the same as they had at the polls last Sunday: zero. President, it is now. Ladies and gentlemen, eskerrik asko is agura. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Barkos. Before you leave this Chamber I would like to say that you have been a Member for many years, and that we have shared this time since the dissent many times, and from the most absolute discrepancy, but also from the total respect that you have had for all the opinions of this House. I wish you the best of personal luck, and thank you very much. [[Applauds]] By the same group, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u104	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to welcome the Navarra authorities and friends who have wanted to accompany us today in this debate, of which they are all protagonists. Today we are summoned and united to talk about the Foral Regime of Navarre, we are talking about the political soul of Navarre, its institutional heart, the great engine of its prosperity, and a centripetal, integrative and singular feeling of a people that has preserved its strong political personality to this day. Today we renew, update, and improve a pact because that and not another is the legal and experiential nature of the Fuero de Navarra, neither submission nor rupture. The Fuero Navarro is a link more than a great chain forged over time by thousands of stories that convey values in every generation: political maturity to defend the very same, foral freedom, respect, loyalty, mutual affection, collaboration based on the desire to unite and not to separate, and solidarity with all those who form this great brotherhood named Spain. We will vote today as did our representatives in the Negotiating Committee and in the Foral Parliament. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that today we can celebrate that Navarre has a future, in this vote and also in that we have had on the Lofca. This, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Barkos, is a good deal. What is the point of saying that this Convention can be improved if, by the hand of those who have never respected the law, neither appreciate it nor want it, they are seeking to make a government in Navarre? That, ladies and gentlemen, is impossible. One cannot self-proclaim the adalid of the defense of the furo with 15% of the votes, when one lacks until reaching 51% the votes of Bildu, Podemos, Izquierda-Ezkerra in Navarre, who have never had any consideration with the furo to say that it can actually be improved. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Barkos, that facilitating, for example, in the City of Pamplona a radical government led by Bildu, which has only five councillors of twenty-seven - UPN has ten - is going to be able precisely to improve coexistence, improve the furo, work for the furo? Your own members of the Basque Nationalist Party do not want to rule with Bildu in Guipúzcoa, and you agree with them in Navarre; what is not good for Guipúzcoa seems to be good for shipwrecks, is that we are in the worst category? It is simply impossible, ladies and gentlemen, and a bad legacy, Mrs Barkos. We close with this debate a legislature in Navarre that time will bring in value, in which only a few took on the challenge of taking forward our community, while others, safe in the mockery of opportunism, out of fear or strategy, took advantage of the effort of their true protagonists to pick up the nuts of their lack of interest with Navarre. Some of them accompany us today: Lourdes, Raquel, Maite, Raúl, María Jesús, Rosana, Antonio, Cristóbal. To all of them and to all of those who join Navarra in this vote today, and to the thousands of Navarras who work to leave a better Navarra for their children, and do so with all their hard work, telling the truth, and with an incombustible spirit, is today dedicated our tribute and our vote in this process. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u105	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your honors will wonder what a Valencian is doing about Navarra's funding. Since I only have a minute or a minute and a half, I'm going to hurry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u107	Two, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u108	Two. Thank you so much. He's not always so generous to me, and today I thank him wholeheartedly. Four thoughts and one request, Mr Montoro. I think it is very good that this agreement is being discussed, I am very pleased that it can be discussed, but you said in Valencia that there was no time to discuss the under-financing of the Valencian Community in this legislature. They have had time to draw more than two hundred bills and decree-laws in these three years - I do not say so, Mr Rajoy said in the debate on the state of the nation -, and even today we debate this draft law of the Navarra Economic Convention; they have had time for everything and they have not had it to repair our underfunding. So - I finish - I make a simple request. I say it and I teach it: the Valencians want to have the same treatment as the Navarros, no more or less. [[shows a poster]] We want exactly the same thing. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u109	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Quadra has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating here today has, in my opinion, a little bit of Machiavelism. It turns out that one day, as well as by chance, and thanks to the diligence of the Minister of Finance, it was discovered that in Navarre they were owed 1.5 billion as a result of the non-payment of VAT corresponding to the company Volkswagen. The amount was not turkey mucus, it was approaching half of what Navarra's public budgets are for 2015. In addition, there were a number of other important problems on the table: two recent Constitutional Court rulings, which largely completely overturned Navarra's historical powers in tax matters. The political moment was also quite delicate; elections were approaching and it was more than obvious that political and social change, as has been seen later, was coming. The UPN government, as it could not be less, said that we had to defend above all Navarra's interests - it would be missing more, Minister - that the accounts are the accounts, and so began the negotiation of what we are discussing today. During the negotiations as is logical the claim of the 1.5 billion euros worked as a total blackmail: either what I say is accepted or here is my claim of 1.5 billion. Finally, after a few posturites and a few verbal grandiloquencies, an agreement was reached. On the one hand, the $1.5 billion claim is withdrawn, and on the other hand, it is accepted that Navarra's tax authority to approve taxes other than those regulated by the Convention - I read textually - will be exercised without prejudice to the law of the general regime of the State, something that previously did not exist. And in the case of the two disputed taxes on the production of electricity and deposits of credit institutions - I also read textually - the Foral Community of Navarre will apply the same substantive and formal rules established at all times by the State. And what do you want me to tell them? What coloring, colorful, this story is over. The interests of Navarre and the State have once again been reconciled. The pact, as we have been told, which is the foundation of fury, not the sovereignty of the Navarro people, has worked again. Photos and smiles pre-electoral; Spain goes well and Navarra, I don't even tell you. This is the movie. The reality, from our point of view, has been quite different. The blackmail of the 1.5 billion has worked and has been blunt. And, as has happened at other times in history in which conflicts have arisen between the naval powers and those of the State, once again this has been at the cost of undermining the very powers already held, of accentuating the submission of the naval powers to the state rules, of turning the Official Gazette of Navarre into a short and sticky one of the Official Gazette of the State. Therefore, Amaiur, as he has already done in the outside Parliament, is not going to vote in favour of this amendment of the convention, because to a large extent it has seemed to us a paripé negotiation subject to blackmail that we do not accept, because those 1.5 billion euros are certainly not going to be used to buy our vote. I'm done. This paripé, in any case - what we will do to you, Mr Salvador, Mr Montoro - has not worked very well for you. To bring down the representation of the PP in the Parliament of Navarre by 50% and that of UPN by 20% shows that what has existed behind this agreement and behind many more things has been a constant aggression by the Government of Madrid, by the Government of the PP, to the interests, competences and sovereignty of our people. The invention hasn't worked for them, the political and social change comes to Nafarroa, it's unstoppable, and I'm sorry, take a lime and don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u111	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance, today is an important political and parliamentary day for the Basque Group and for the Basque Nationalist Party. Today we are debating and voting on the amendment of Act No. 28/1990 of 26 December 1990 on the Economic Convention. As provided for in the third additional provision, where substantial reform of the State's tax law is taking place, it is to be done by common agreement with the revision of the Economic Convention. This is precisely what has happened since the last amendment that took place there in 2007, almost eight years ago. Thus, the negotiating committee of the convention, at the meetings of 17 February and 23 March 2015, reached the agreement that we are going to vote on today. Basically and without going into further technical details which are already spelled out in the reformed text, tax amendments relating to gambling tax, the value of electricity production, spent nuclear fuel, the deposit tax on credit institutions, environmental measures and the special levy on prizes for certain lotteries and bets are incorporated into the convention. Similarly, as the text says, technical changes have also been incorporated in order to improve coordination between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre when new State taxes are introduced. A similar agreement, as the House is sure to recall, was discussed and voted on just over a year ago when the Basque Country Economic Concert was modified and updated for the same reason, because of the need to adapt it to the tax reforms that have taken place. The agreed or agreed system has that characteristic of pact or agreement that the Basque Group appreciates positively. And I think it is important to remember this, even if we all know it, because it gives the impression that some people sometimes forget that this reform is a one-of-a-kind article, that is to say, that the agreement reached by the parties, by both governments, in the negotiating committee can be voted in favour or against, or abstain logically, but cannot be amended or modified. This is an essential feature of the Convention and of the Economic Agreement which should not be forgotten and which must be respected. This reform also shows that the Convention is a modern instrument adaptable to changes that allows for the perfect regulation of economic-financial and tax relations between the Foral Community of Navarre and the State Administration; a valid instrument with our utmost consideration and respect. We are therefore in line with the procedure and believe that forms and respect for the procedure are also very important in this matter. From the Basque Group, however, we believe that the agreement reached by these parties, by the governments, incorporates a legislative change that runs counter to the interests of shipwrecks and shipwrecks and the regulatory capacity of the Navarra Community. The change appears to be immeasurable, but it is really important: Article 2.2 of the Economic Convention is amended, incorporating before the current wording a text which states: without prejudice to the provisions of the general regime of the State, and continues: the Foral Community of Navarre may establish and regulate taxes different from those mentioned in this Convention, respecting the principles set out in paragraph 1 above and the harmonisation criteria laid down in Article 7 of this Convention. We cannot understand this change but rather as a political key, which seeks to reduce the margin of manoeuvre of the Navarra Foral Community in tax matters and, therefore, we cannot agree with this legislative change. In the same sense we express ourselves when we support the non-law proposal presented and defended by Geroa Bai, by Mrs Uxue Barkos, whose aim was precisely this. Unfortunately, he did not have the support of the majority of this House. In any case, Mrs Barkos, we hope that the new majorities that emerge in the next parliamentary term will facilitate the change of the current Article 2 in the right direction, respecting legality and, above all, respecting the spirit of the Foral Regime and the Economic Convention. For this reason, our group supports the procedure but disagrees with the substantive issue that I have just raised and which prevents us from supporting such reform. In coherence, the Basque Group will abstain in the vote on the draft law amending the Economic Convention.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u113	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u114	Thank you, Madam President. I have heard during the speeches of all the parliamentary groups some issues of a political nature that seem to me to be the most relevant, I am not going to get into the technical issues. On the other hand, the reforms proposed to our group here seem to be of little technical relevance, and I will therefore not be involved in these matters. But I want to clarify our major political differences about the debate that we are having here; they are of substance and they are of form, and in this case the substance and form come to say the same thing. At the time of presenting the text, the minister began by putting the bandage on before the wound, as is often said, stating that we are not talking about a privilege, that the Foral Regime is not a privilege. Minister - and I say this to the whole House, because then there have been several speakers who have insisted on the same issue - when there is a differential treatment - you have called it that way and some speakers have spoken about the same thing in addition to historical rights, to a system implemented in 1877, which we continue to enjoy in Navarre, which they continue to enjoy in Navarre - when someone says: treat me differently, do not treat me equally because I have the right not to be treated equally, what you are saying is: treat me better, I have the right to be treated better. When someone has the right or believes he has the right to be treated better and not treated on equal terms with the rest of the Spaniards - when we are the Spanish citizens who have the right of citizenship -, when someone interprets that they have to be treated differently to treat him better, we are not talking about a right, we are talking about a privilege, to which some believe they have the right, we are talking about a privilege; I insist, to which some believe they have the right, but it is a privilege. The representative of Compromís has come out with a sign that says: The Valencians want the same deal. And I say, the Spaniards want the same deal. All Spaniards have the right to have the same tax treatment, the same rights in this area, all Spaniards, not Valencians, but Navarros, Basques, Aragonese, all Spaniards, because we are the Spanish citizens who have the rights recognized by the Constitution. All of us here know - Minister Montoro knows it and the Navarro representatives of the various political formations that have intervened - that this foral system - and the Basque one - cannot be extended to all the territories of Spain because it would add more than a hundred, above all it cannot be extended to the autonomous communities that have a higher gross domestic product. It is a system that is not extendable to all of Spain because it adds more than a hundred. It would be impossible to apply in all of Spain. If it cannot be applied throughout Spain, it is not a right, but a privilege. I understand that the Catalan nationalists or the Valencian nationalists come up here and say: I too, because, of course, they know that it is a privilege, that requires a privileged situation and privileged treatment. That is why we say that all Spaniards have the right to be treated equally. We have been talking this morning about the system of financing the autonomous communities and it has become clear that there is an unjust system of financing, but it is the system of just financing that we have to regulate and not keep privileges at one place or another. The foral system is not per se a privileged system, a system we are going to say contrary to equality, contrary to fiscal equity, but its drift has turned it - and the Basque - into a system contrary to fiscal equity and equality. [[The Lord]] It would therefore require a revision of the system by adapting certain corrective measures so that, without altering the Foral Regime in that of historical that it may have, it will ensure full approval so that the system does not mean a lack of protection for the rest of the Spaniards, and I say a lack of protection. Because, Minister, you know it very well - some speakers have counted it with other words and talking about 1.5 billion, although I believe that it is 800 that is claimed, that is not prescribed -, this, beyond those technical adjustments that have been discussed, in some cases to be against like the Basque and Navarra nationalists, has no other purpose than to condone the debt that the Navarra Foreign Treasury has with the Spanish Treasury, that is to say, that it has the Navarra Foreign Treasury with all the Spaniards. This is only for rinsing, to cancel the debt, that debt of Volkswagen's VAT which has been wrongly collected by the Navarra Foreign Treasury, which the Government has initially claimed, but which has then stopped claiming it, so that those 800 million which the Navarra Foreign Treasury has improperly collected do not have to be returned by the Navarra Foreign Treasury, but that the Spanish Treasury returns them, that is to say, that all the Spaniards, also the Spanish citizens who live in autonomous communities, who rightly protest that their financing system is not adequate for the citizens of those autonomous communities to be treated fairly. Minister, this is something profoundly unfair from the point of view of equity and equality and of the right to equality of all Spaniards, a procedurally speaking chapuza - they are going to tell me that it codifies not because it is regulated by law - and a chapuza in democratic terms, if I may, because the form in this case is fundamental. The representative of the Basque Nationalist Party has explained - because he is naturally in favour - that we are dealing with a matter in which concrete content we cannot enter. We have to make a general statement, but we cannot amend it, and the explanation is that this is an agreement, an agreement between two governments and here the national Parliament has nothing more to say, only if I take it or leave it. Your Honor, the agreements between two governments, that of the nation and an autonomous government, in a state, which is Spain, in this case are contrary to the sovereignty of the national Parliament. That is to say, in order to respect a supposed sovereignty, in quotes, of Navarre - aspiration, but which behaves as such - or of the Basque Country when it comes or when it comes, of agreements between two governments, this Parliament has to renounce its sovereignty, because a law that cannot be amended by this Parliament is a pre-democratic system because it cannot be amended, it can only be rejected. This is as if it were - you know it well, Mr Montoro - an agreement between two countries, international agreements, as if it were an agreement between two countries from which we came here on Thursdays and we sanction, whether or not, an agreement. One of the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party tells me that it is indeed an agreement between two sovereign nations, between two countries. It's not, but we treat it like it is. So it becomes that. They are treated as if they were, there is an agreement between two governments. There is no parliamentary procedure. Parliament gave up the amendments. It's not a parliamentary procedure if you can't get into the bottom. I would like, for example, to amend the Volkswagen issue. I would like the Spaniards not to have to pay what the Navarro Government has entered without having to enter it, but you forgive them and we cannot enter into that discussion. We cannot tell the Spaniards, who already have enough difficulties as a whole, that in addition, because of mismanagement or arbitrary management or because of a management of cod and to cover up what is being done, the Government of the nation has decided to forgive the Government of Navarre a debt which is owed to it by the Government of Navarre and not all the Spaniards. I insist, it is a misunderstanding in democratic terms. We are sanctioning, once again, a system of functioning confederation within Spain, Spain of autonomy. We are treating the Government of Navarre, in relation to the Government of Spain, as if it were two foreign governments that make agreements and come here and ratify them. This is pre-democratic, minister, if you can't go in and discuss all the laws. It's pre-democratic, it's an absolutely unacceptable thing. A law that does not have control of Parliament is a law, I insist, that receives pre-democratic treatment. Moreover, and to conclude with the substance on which I have already spoken, that the only quiet reform that you bring us here is to condone the 800 million not prescribed of a collected VAT and that you have not wanted to return, is a shame and an insult to all the Spaniards. That is an insult to the Spanish as a whole. The Government of Spain has to claim this amount from the Government of Navarre because it has collected it without having to collect it. It cannot be returned by the Spanish Treasury when it has been charged by the Navarren Treasury. It's a shame, minister. It's absolutely embarrassing. By the way, - and in relation to something that Mrs Barkos has said before, that although I do not see her in the House, I want to say it, and what Mr Salvador has said, but in another sense, in the opposite direction, but it gives me the same thing - this is not about scaring anyone. Here it is not a question of saying certain things for fearing anyone in relation to the Foral Regime: if you are in favor, win I don't know who, and if you are against, win I don't know who else. Let the one who votes the people win. Here it is about being able to come to the rostrum, say what one thinks and defend it, and tell the truth of what things are. Here we are faced with a profoundly unfair system for all Spaniards, which is not treated as a law in democracy has to be processed; it is unacceptable and untenable for all Spaniards that at this point in the film we continue with this absolutely opaque, unjust and pre-democratic system. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Picó has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll step in from the seat. The Catalan Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this bill amending Law 28/1990 approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, and we will do so in line with the different positions we have held in this House since the 1980s in the successive amendments to the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, as we have done since the 1980s in the case of the Basque Country Economic Concert. There is a second reason, ladies and gentlemen, and it is that the Catalan Parliamentary Group has always respected in this House the agreements reached between the Government of Navarre and the central Government. This follows, in this case, from the text of the bill presented in the House, which gives concrete expression to the agreements reached by both institutions. Thirdly, we have given unconditional support and have never coerced these agreements, on the contrary. We are pleased that two administrations, that of the State and that of the Foral Community of Navarre, through a negotiating committee, agree on the rules of the Economic Convention from the principle of bilaterality. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are talking about the financing system and we are talking about the legal failure of the Government to implement the new system, in this case, of financing the autonomous communities of the common system. If that is already a sufficient reason to denounce the legal breach that the Government is in, it seems to us no less serious that the principle of sufficiency of the financing of the autonomous communities is being broken through other mechanisms. The examples are multiple. It is preferable to finance the autonomous communities through extraordinary systems than through the ordinary system of financing, with the approval of the new system that should already be in force - I recall - since last year. Also, for example, advances on account of the financing system do not take into account the increase in revenue provided for in the State General Budgets. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that between 2013 and 2014 collection has increased by 4,6 %. The 2015 General State Budgets foresee an additional increase of 5,4 %; instead, for this year, the advances to the account fall by 2,5 %. Tax revenues are increased and bills are declining; therefore, it is an inconsistency. Another example. In recent years, the reconfiguration of taxes carried out by the Government of the People's Party with increases - remember - in the tax on the income of individuals, VAT, excise taxes, among others, has meant an increase in the collection in the period 2012-2014 of more than 30 billion euros. This increase in collection has meant two things for the autonomous communities of common system. On the one hand, they cannot benefit from the additional resources that this has entailed; the autonomous communities have not received a hard one of those 30 billion euros of extraordinary collection. And, on the other hand, that these increases in taxation have meant an increase in the expenditure of the autonomous communities due to the greater fiscal pressure they have to suffer. I would also like to remind you that we must add that there is no progress in the payment of the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015 when the needs to be met by the autonomous communities are today and not in two years' time. To speak today of the financing of the autonomous communities of the common system is to speak of deep disloyalty and financial asphyxiation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u117	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group, Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to greet the Navarra authorities who have come to see this plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Convention is an instrument and the core piece of self-government of the Navarra Forum Community. The Spanish Constitution and the Organic Law on Reintegration and Improvement of the Navarra Foral Regime, the Lorafna, define a rich and immense democratic field of play from which this agreement derives. The legitimacy of the forum - I would like to recall - is constitutional, as reflected in the first additional provision of the 1978 Constitution. I remember his words: The Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories. In the case of Navarra, this historical right is the maintenance of the Foral Regime. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution was endorsed in Spain by an immense majority of citizens and also in Navarre, by the majority of citizens and by the majority of the census. As always, I would like to recall that, of all the forces that we are taking part in this debate today, only then did the Socialist Party defend the Constitution without changes in all its wording, from the beginning to the end, without any nuance. For this reason, my group today welcomes the agreement reached in a very difficult context, a context which has not been the most favourable framework from the State perspective, nor the most favourable framework for the defence of the self-government of Navarre; an agreement reached in extremis at the end of a parliamentary term in which the People's Party has advocated more than ever for a re-centralisation of the autonomous state and in particular of the Foral Community of Navarre; a government, Mr Montoro, who has not listened to me, which has appealed to decisions of Parliament and actions of the Government of Navarre, without sometimes even reporting beforehand; a government which has resorted to fourteen outlaws in three years. Here, in this House, we debate in October, in December last year and in March... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u119	Excuse me, Mr. Moscoso. Please, you can't make groups in the hallways. Anyone who wants to talk, in the bar, in the street, here to listen. Follow you, Mr. Moscoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. What a climate so different from that of 2010, for example, when with a socialist government this House, with broad consensus, reformed the Lorafna, how different. That is why I want to remind you that the context has been very difficult. The text on the amendment of the convention is a positive one, not only because it resolves the dispute on the subject of VAT, on which I will then return, but also because it introduces amendments that will have to be taken into account before the constitutional court is brought before the constitutional court and also amendments that the constitutional court itself will have to take into account before it interprets future foreign rules. And that is why I want to refer to the agreement of weeks ago by which we reformed the Lofca, the Organic Law 8/1980, of 22 September, on the financing of the autonomous communities; a reform that sought to unify and strengthen the constitutionality bloc to legitimize the furo, a need that was fundamental to end the chain of conflicts and to order the furo and its peaceful nature; a reform aimed at ensuring the full recognition of the Navarro Foral Regime and also the ability - this is the important thing - of the Navarra Foral Community to endorse and protect its competence to regulate its own taxes in all kinds of matters In that debate we demanded that this reform of the Lofca, which cannot be separated from this agreement, should incorporate two premises: the first, which would have a broad agreement and constitutional consensus based on the constitutionality bloc, because any reform of the constitutionality bloc of the naval furo requires constitutionality... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] Mr President, it is impossible to continue like this.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u121	I'll say it again. Please, Mr. Moscoso hits a wall so that his words can be heard and understood. Please, be quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Moscoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u122	As we have argued from my group, that reform overcame partisan interests and we trust that this attitude is the one that prevails from now on in the field of foral; it was a formula of synthesis, of a comprehensive nature and that incorporated different points of view. The second point we demand in the reform is that it clearly and directly collect the democratic and constitutional legitimacy of the case, because it must be remembered that the Lofca is prior to the approval of the Lorafna, and this was also done recognizing in its first additional provision the fact that the Lorafna has been approved since 1982 as the constitutional basis of our system. We then welcome that change because it meant de facto recognition of some groups in the constitutional framework in defending the future, and we trust that those groups that supported this reform will continue to do so, especially now that they have been democratically called to play an important role in the Navarra institutions, which can be none other than that which has been carried out since constitutional normality. I sincerely trust that they will not let us down from now on. On the content of the reform of the convention that we are discussing today, many things have already been said, but first I would like to remind you of its origin. Its origin dates from 1841, from the promulgation of the Covenant Law; a law that, after the fall of absolutism in 1839, demanded normalization of the entire system at that time in accordance with the new Constitution. The regime that emerged from that agreement was called the Foral Regime; the regime whose main feature, which it has maintained since then, is its peaceful character, that is, any modification of it can only be made by means of a new pact or agreement between the State and the Navarra institutions. That way of agreeing is legitimate in the 1978 Constitution, as I explained earlier, which is why we voted on Tuesday that this debate should take place in one reading, because of its peaceful nature. That is why we must also remember that the Parliament of Navarre has already approved this agreement at its meetings on 26 February and 26 March this year. The agreement does not reform any convention, but partly some content. It qualifies outside powers after a turbulent period, in which the central government has shown total disrespect for the sovereign decisions of shipowners and their institutions, as has been shown by the resources we have already mentioned. The signing of the agreement should put an end to a time when the pacted tradition has been broken; a period of constitutional loyalty, which is always required and involves a dialogue between the two parties to work together for the common interest. The agreement introduces an additional provision to resolve the VAT issue and to resolve future conflicts by negotiated means, if any. We have often spoken on the question of VAT, and we always stress the insustainability, even the crazy nature of the arguments of the Tax Agency, which in essence equated a transaction between Navarra and the common system with an intra-Community operation outside Spanish territory. The agreement should also serve to improve coordination between the two administrations, to rebuild the conditions of dialogue through the various bodies that exist, which have been badly damaged and mistreated after these three years, harmonising issues that have already been mentioned such as electricity, charges on deposits, hydrocarbon issues and outstanding issues that were not yet agreed, such as taxes on lotteries, on online gambling, on the net, or on fluorinated gases. Ladies and gentlemen, Navarra's tax autonomy is an essential element of the Navarra regime. The Convention within the framework of the Constitution allows us to establish the rules of harmonization and coordination with the State. As I said, the system must always adapt and we must continue to do so in the future. Of course the picture to which we are going - very desirable - of fiscal union in Europe will recommend many more approximation efforts. As you know, Navarra's contribution to the State remains unchanged in this reform and the one adopted in 1990 remains in force. The convention is also the instrument by which shipwrecks contribute to solidarity with all Spanish citizens. As reflected in the Granada Declaration adopted by the PSOE in 2013 towards a federal structure of the State, the commitment of socialists to the institutions of the Basque Country Concert and the Navarra Convention is absolute; institutions that must continue to maintain their constitutional recognition, while, of course, improving their practical application; peace-building. I'm finishing now, Mr. President, for the time I've lost before,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u123	Mr. Moscoso, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u124	I've got a minute left, if we take it back from before.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u125	He doesn't have any left. I highly recommend it, you're done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u126	We shipwrecks will never give up the questions of principle that support the Foral Regime, but we will always approach the questions of egg encryption, with flexibility and from the margin and perspective of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday there were elections in Navarre as in so many other Spanish territories. The new Government must respect the will to change Navarra's citizenship, that is unquestionable. It must bet on the self-government of Navarre without questioning our constitutional order, and do so within the framework that has allowed us to reach the highest levels of prosperity and freedom in our history.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u127	Mr. Moscoso, you have to finish. Do me a favor. Let's not talk about the future anymore.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u128	It is up to the new Government to manage the new agreement with a high eye, generosity and presence in the face of the immense challenges of our time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Moscoso. For the People's Group, Mr Pérez Lapazarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is up to me in this procedure to reflect the position of the People's Parliamentary Group. First of all, I would like to welcome the Vice-President of the Government of Navarre; the President of the Parliament of Navarre, Mr Catalan; Senator Salanueva; Senators Eza, Palacios, Yanguas; the senior officials of the Government of Navarre and the government technicians in Navarre. All of them, welcome. I would like to begin by saying that for many of us today is an important day and for me as a Member of the Group of the European People's Party for Navarre it is an honour and privilege to defend this bill amending the economic agreement between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. As the Minister has already said, our financial and tax activities are governed by a peculiar and unique regime agreed upon, such as the Economic Convention, which is based on historical reasons. Already since 1515 in which Navarra is incorporated into the Crown of Castile, Navarra maintains a certain singularity, sustaining over centuries the condition of kingdom with its laws and self-government. Over the centuries, it has retained its legislative institutions, its courts, its right, including the power to establish and collect taxes. Until the 19th century this special and singular union was recognized but in 1839 Navarra adjusted its historical powers to the demands of constitutional unity; union that was completed in 1841, integrating itself into the unitary structure of the State but adjusting for Navarra a regime that was called the Foral Regime and that was articulated around the Covenant Law of 1841. The characteristics of this regime, given its agreed nature, meant that any modification of the regime could only be made by means of a new pact or agreement between the State and the Navarra institutions. From 1841 to 1969 the Navarro regime went through certain difficulties, which were remedied by the 1969 Convention. With democracy, many more things were improved and appreciated; already, in the 1978 Constitution, the rights of the outlying territories were protected and respected. Therefore, the Constitution ended the alleged doubt between the courts and the constitutional unity by declaring that the Foral Regime would find its full protection and respect in the Constitution itself. The Constitution is therefore a guarantee of survival for the Navarro Foral Regime, and all democratic governments, absolutely all of them, have recognized this situation in Navarra and the peaceful nature of its Foral Regime. This government of the People's Party and the People's Group align themselves in this defense of their protection, and we do so within Spain and with the Constitution in hand. I would also like to state that the improvement of the 1982 court, which was the result of a new pact with the State, led to the strengthening of the Foral Regime born of the Pact Act of 1841. This has allowed us not only to maintain historical competences but to integrate and add all those that are not inherent in constitutional unity. By our historic Foral Regime, protected and respected by the Constitution, Navarra's economic and financial activity is regulated by the traditional system of the Economic Convention. This is not a privilege, Mrs Díez, of any one; it is a historical right which is not born of the Constitution, but which establishes the possibility of its full development. It is a different relationship instrument within Spain. As the Minister and some of the interveners have said, Navarra's tax autonomy is an essential element in the Foral Regime since it allows it to maintain, establish and regulate its own tax regime without any more limitations than those laid down in the convention itself, which sets out the rules of harmonization and the points of connection to determine the competence of one or other Administration and to avoid double taxation. All this is done with solidarity, within Spain, since Navarra is part of the Spanish State and from Navarra it contributes to the equitable support of the general burdens of the State. It's not a better deal, it's a different deal. The Economic Convention is the instrument used to determine the amount of Navarra's contributions and to establish the most appropriate procedure for updating them, all within the agreement and the principle of solidarity. This is what is intended today in the Congress of Deputies, which is nothing other than updating it, as it does not entail a comprehensive reform of the 1990 Convention, but the introduction of partial amendments, as has been done with previous amendments. The substance of the agreement has already been said by the Minister - I will not insist on it - is the incorporation into the convention of different taxes approved by the General Courts; in addition to these taxes, clarifications are made that are necessary to guarantee Navarre's full tax capacity. I would like to stress for its importance the introduction in the Convention of the additional provision which puts an end to the conflict over VAT refunds. With the application of this provision, outstanding tax issues are finally resolved, as this agreement for agreed taxes will have effect from 1 January 2013; it is also important to articulate agreed avenues of settlement for future disputes that may arise. Finally, improvements in coordination mechanisms between the Foral Community and the State are important. A fundamental and important issue for the People's Group is that the convention that we will adopt today deepens and further strengthens the Foral Regime and that conflict situations that have occurred in the past will be avoided in the future, as a result of rulings of the Constitutional Court, due to the problems that have arisen from the interpretation of taxation. In short, with the adoption of this law, conflicts are resolved, the tax situation is clarified and Navarre will be strengthened its self-government and its tax capacity. From the People's Party and from the People's Party Government we value it as very positive; we believe it is a very good agreement, the best one possible. This has enabled the People's Party and the People's Party Government to fulfil and demonstrate their willingness to reach agreements over the past few years. We have to take into account what was adopted in this House in October and which said in text: Maintain a permanent will for dialogue and agreement with the Foral Community of Navarre under the principles of mutual loyalty and respect, cooperation and solidarity. I believe that we have done so from the People's Party, so we are proud of this agreement and how it has been dealt with. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the long process of dialogue between the two Governments, both the technicians of the Government of Navarre and the technicians of the Ministry as well as the Minister himself and the Parliament of Navarre, who approved this agreement without any vote against it. All of them, thank you very much. I would also like to thank all the Members who have spoken before me, as well as the recognition or discrepancy that some of them have had in this basic instrument for the fiscal and financial self-government of our Foral Community, such as the Economic Convention. I believe that with the passage of this law we will do the best service to all shipwrecks. I would like to refer to one last question which I consider to be of courtesy, as it is to dismiss Mrs Barkos. Despite the discrepancies we have in political matters, I would like to wish you the best in personal terms and to acknowledge your work in Congress. Since there have been some interventions, especially from some nationalist group, speaking of lamination, of going against, of losing sovereignty, of eliminating competences, I would like to respond: there would be no greater lamination for the Foral Community of Navarre than to integrate it into another community, our fury would be wounded to death. In that regard, I would like to remind you that the integration of Navarre in Euskadi would ultimately be a loss of sovereignty, competence and many issues. Our Economic Convention would run the same fate as the Basque Country Economic Concert; Navarra's foral autonomy would be reduced to the same condition that it has its forality in the historical territories of Álava, Vizcaya and Guipuzcoa, subject to the power of Parliament and the Basque Government; we would lose bilaterality and peaceful character. This, in my opinion, is the nature and risk of the Navarra Foral Regime, integration into another community, loss of skills. This is not that I say it, it's that it's been saying it over many years. Look at the Statute of Estella of 1931, the covenants of Loyola, the covenants of Estella, etc. It would be to lose that peaceful character, that sovereignty; in short, it would be to lose the sense of the Navarra Foral Regime. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u131	In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the vote, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Álvaro Anchouelo Crego, I ask Don Rafael Calduch Cervera if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u133	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u134	Don Rafael Calduch has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u135	Motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the fiscal policy orientation contained in the update of the 2015-2018 stability programme and its effects on inequality. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 132 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u136	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u137	Royal Decree-Law 6/2015 of 14 May, amending Act No. 55/2007 of 28 December 2007 on Cinema, several extraordinary credits and credit supplements are granted in the State budget and other tax measures are adopted. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 190 plus 2 telematics votes, 192; against, 10; abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u138	The royal decree is validated. Processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of this royal decree-law. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 132; against, 179 plus 2 telematics votes, 181.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u139	It will not be treated as a bill. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2015, OF 14 MAY, CONCERNING EXTRAORDINARY CREDITS AND A SUPPLEMENT OF IMPORTED CREDIT OF 856.440.673.35 EUROS IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BUDGET, TO ACCEPT THE PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS CORRESPONDING TO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENT PROGRAMMES AND THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES. [[File number 130/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u140	Royal Decree-Law 7/2015 of 14 May, granting extraordinary credits and a credit supplement for a certain amount in the budget of the Ministry of Defence to cover the payment of obligations relating to special arms programmes and the performance of other activities of the department. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 180 plus 2 telematics votes, 182; against, 127; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u141	It's validated. Processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of this royal decree. A vote has been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 308 plus 1 telematic vote, 309; in favour, 303; against, 2 plus 1 telematic vote, 3; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u142	It will be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u143	Let us now turn to the Senate amendments and then to amendments to the opinion. As reflected in the 'Diary of Sessions', of the amendments I shall simply say accepted or rejected. Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the financing of the Autonomous Communities and Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Firstly, the vote on the amendment to the first additional provision concerning the final subparagraph of paragraph 3: '...or the granting of the authorisation referred to in paragraph 3 above'. [[new]] Understood by the spokespersons? [[Consent]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 10 against, 194 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u144	It's rejected. Amendment relating to the remainder of the first, new, additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour 181 against 13 abstentions 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u145	It's approved. Amendment to the second additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 275 against, 25 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u146	It's approved. Amendments to the seventh final provision, the eleventh final provision and the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 274 against, 14 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u147	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u148	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities and the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability as being organic. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 2 telematics votes, 309; 182 plus 2 telematics votes, 184; 122; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u149	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u150	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. We started with the amendments by the Joint Group, and we voted first on paragraphs 1, 9 and 10. [[Mrs. Pérez Fernández]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 36 against, 179 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u151	They're rejected. Mrs Pérez Fernández's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 132 against 177; abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u152	They're rejected. Amendments by Mr Tardà, which are voted in bloc. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 131 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u153	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Group, PNV. Firstly, Amendment 47. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 35 against, 180 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u154	They're rejected. Amendment 48. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 306 against, 3 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u155	It's approved. Amendment 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 28 against, 272 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u156	It's rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendment 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 19 against, 190 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u157	It's rejected. Amendment 45. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 30 against, 180 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u158	It's rejected. Amendment 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 19 against, 181 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u159	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Progressive Union and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 124 against, 178 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u160	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by The Plural Left. Amendments 20, 22, 25, 27 and 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 36 against, 180 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u161	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 130 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u162	They're rejected. Amendments by the Catalan Group Firstly, Amendments 103, 121 and 124. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 32 against, 179 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u163	They're rejected. Amendment 105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 118 against, 185 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u164	It's rejected. Amendments 117 and 119. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 23 against, 275 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u165	They're rejected. Remaining amendments by the Catalan Group [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour 127 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u166	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group that are voted in bloc. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u167	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 181 against 17 abstentions 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u168	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u169	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, because it is organic in nature. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 183 plus 2 telematics votes, 185; against, 15; abstentions, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u170	The draft law was adopted in its organic nature.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u171	We are now voting on the opinion of the draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. We begin with Mrs Pérez Fernández's amendments. Amendments 5, 8 and 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310; 129; 179; 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u172	They're rejected. Mrs Pérez Fernández's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 32 against, 176 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u173	They're rejected. Mr Tardà's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 126 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u174	It's rejected. Amendment 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 34 against, 186 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u175	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 126 against, 179 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u176	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, which are voted in bloc. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 31 against, 179 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u177	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendment 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 126 against 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u178	It's rejected. Amendment 75. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 20 against, 181 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u179	It's rejected. Amendments 78 and 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 30 against, 274 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u180	They're rejected. Amendment 82. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 6 against, 189 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u181	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 31 against, 177 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u182	They're rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Amendments 17, 18, 21, 23, 24, 25, 27, 30, 36, 38, 47, 49 and 71. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 124 against, 180 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u183	They're rejected. Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 109 against, 180 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u184	It's rejected. Amendments 39, 40, 43, 46, 48, 50, 51, 57, 60 and 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 31 against, 272 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u185	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 35 against, 180 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u186	They're rejected. We move on to the amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union. Amendments 184, 186, 192, 193, 219, 223, 231, 232, 233, 235, 247, 248 and 249. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 125 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u187	They're rejected. Amendments 188, 202 and 221. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 116 against, 179 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u188	They're rejected. Amendment 197. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 21 against, 274 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u189	It's rejected. Amendment 206. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 115 against, 187 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u190	It's rejected. Amendments 208 and 215. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 22 against, 189 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u191	They're rejected, Amendments 209, 210 and 246. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 22 against, 181 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u192	They're rejected. Amendment 222. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 30 against, 271 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u193	It's rejected. Amendments 224 and 229. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 16 against, 281 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u194	They're rejected. Amendment 230. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 206 against, 3 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u195	It's approved. Transactional amendment to Amendment 237. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 209 against, 1 abstention, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u196	It's approved. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 33 against, 179 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u197	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 105 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u198	It's rejected. Amendments 110, 119 and 159. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 votes in favour, 111 against, 180 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u199	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 122 against 178; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u200	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 181 against 26 abstentions 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u201	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u202	Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. Draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. Overall vote on the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre for single reading. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 2 telematics votes, 309; in favour, 288 plus 2 telematics votes, 290; against, 5; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u203	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u204	The plenary of the Chamber has been requested to approve the final deliberation and vote of the computer bill of the Labour Inspection and Social Security System. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 308 plus 2 telematics votes, 310; in favour, 131; against, 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u205	It won't be processed. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 37/2007 OF 16 NOVEMBER, ON RE-UTILIZATION OF INFORMATION OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR. [[File number 121/000150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u206	Finally, a request for the House plenary to give notice of the deliberation and final vote of the bill amending Act No. 37/2007 of 16 November 2007 on the re-use of public sector information. The Socialist Group's request for an avocado has been submitted. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 125 against, 178 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-28-CD150528.u207	It will not be treated as a bill. The meeting rose. It was three and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
