ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the discussion of all legislative initiatives, in particular the draft law on partial amendment of Law 58/2003 of 17 December, General Tributaria, and the draft organic law regulating the access and publicity of certain information contained in the rulings on tax fraud, which will be discussed cumulatively as agreed in the Board of Spokespersons and ratified by the Permanent Chamber. For the presentation of the bills, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Government brings to Congress for validation the draft law on partial amendment of the General Tax Law and the draft organic law regulating access to and publicity of certain information contained in the rulings on tax fraud. Its main objectives are to enhance the fight against fraud, to strengthen legal certainty, both for taxpayers and for the tax administration, and to reduce disputes in this area with a more precise and clear regulation of all procedures for the management of the tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, we could say that the tax system is a very reliable mirror of a country's situation, of the morale of a society. The structure of the tax administration, the laws that regulate it, its ability to collect, the ambition and effectiveness of its officials and the results of the fight against fraud, its interplay in the international context, the simplicity and modernization of its tax model and the fairness of its taxes tell us which country we are talking about and what its objectives are. Since the beginning of the legislature, the Government has attached great importance to fiscal policy and the modernization of the tax system in order to achieve economic growth and job creation goals. Without a doubt, this policy has been one of the most effective instruments of what we have used both in the first few months of 2012 and when the exit strategy for the crisis was forged, as at present, with a fiscal reform that is being decisive in the process of economic recovery. The results that we have achieved over these years are powerfully contrasted with the ineffective response that had been given in previous years, in years of severe economic crisis. Far from using tax policy to try to stop the crisis, far from carrying out a fiscal reform that cushioned the social damage that threatened the country, far from moving all the tax levers that had been used to accompany a reform of the economic structures that marked the path of recovery, measures launched by the previous Government made the foundations of the Spanish tax system fragile and unable to sustain the needs of our State and, in particular, the welfare State for a long time. It was time for a policy of far-reaching increases in public spending and an unthinkingly expansive tax strategy, supposedly expansive, in which fiscal aid neither helped people sufficiently nor improved the overall situation. Spain was found in just a couple of years with a revenue loss of €70 billion, the largest in the OECD, which caused a general government surplus of more than 2% of gross domestic product to turn into a deficit in two years of at least 11% of gross domestic product. All this combined with other factors that had been neglected in our economy, such as external indebtedness or the loss of competitiveness, made us an extremely vulnerable country to the crisis, a country that suffered a profound fiscal crisis from the state. It was clear that those recipes pushed us to a drift similar to that which dragged the economies of other countries on the periphery of Europe and it was clear that we were faced with an essential failure in economic policy that had proved incapable of pushing the necessary springs to stop that lethal loss of revenue. In fact, it had allowed and even stimulated the excessive indebtedness of our economic fabric and had also shown itself impassioned by the fact that large companies, large companies in our country and operating in our country barely paid the corporation tax. I must recall that in 2011 the effective rate on the positive accounting result of the large consolidated groups in Spain was 3,8 % and there were even several IBEX companies paying in Spain 0 % of the actual type of companies. In the same year payments to groups amounted to €7.626 million, while last year, 2014, the split payment of these same consolidated groups exceeded €19.9 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Spain is not Greece either because of its economic power or because of the structure and effectiveness of its tax administration, but because of the way in which previous rulers acted, we were able to do so. Those decisions and that situation pushed us to a rescue that would have left in the hands of essential third-party decisions of our economy and well-being with negative social and strictly economic consequences. We know, and it is no less so that we remember this afternoon, what has happened with public pensions in Greece or Portugal. We know what has happened to the remuneration of civil servants in these countries. It is true that sacrifices have also been made in Spain, but social policy has been able to maintain public expenditure of the order of 27.5 % of gross domestic product. Our pensioners have retained their purchasing power, the payment of pensions is guaranteed in full month to month and the officials have already begun to recover the extra pay that was postponed in 2012. The best of all is that in the case of Spain the sacrifices, yesterday's efforts are the opportunities of today and tomorrow, while the strategies that neglect the deficit and do not properly manage fiscal policy prolong in time the most negative consequences of the crisis that fall on the citizens. No, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not Greece, nor is there going to be a corralite here that forces our pensioners to endure long queues under the sun to take out tens of euros from the banks in order to buy their basic food. I hope that some will remember these images the next time they say that we are wrong about economic policy in Spain or the next time they say that we should not help the banks in difficulty to protect the citizens who had their savings deposited in them and therefore their fundamental economic capacity. Spain is not Greece because the economic and fiscal policy that we have implemented since the first day of this legislature is diametrically different from that which was done elsewhere and different from that which had been done in Spain. We do take the deficit reduction seriously from the outset, we do take the structural reforms of the economy seriously and we do take tax policy seriously; and we continue to do so, as demonstrated by the legal reform that we are bringing to Congress today and the progress of the second phase of fiscal reform that the Council of Ministers will adopt next Friday and that will come into force with effect from this month of July. That is why we are now where we are and not where the measures put in place in previous legislatures would have taken us. That is why Spain is now a country in the process of moving ahead with growth and job creation among the major countries of the European Union and is not locked in any corral of overwhelming hopelessness. I would like to recall in this House that in 2012 a Nobel Prize in Economics announced that it would have ran in Spain. He was wrong, he was deeply wrong about the ability, conviction and strength of the Spanish people to cope with the crises. Upon reaching the Government in 2012, we found that, in the absence of addressing the continuing deterioration of tax bases - especially on expenditure - we were obliged to make tax decisions that would curb the loss of collection. In a first phase we stabilize public finances, it is true that with an increase in taxes; an increase that, as we are seeing, was limited in time and profoundly equitable in its distribution. Firstly, it was primarily in the IRPF and in corporate tax. If we had started by raising VAT, as some claimed, 2012 would probably have been worse in terms of economic recession and job losses. In 2012, once Europe was plunged into the crisis and also into the paralysis of the institutions that marked Europe's behaviour in that July 2012, we proceeded to a VAT increase that did not affect the super-reduced rate, because it is the one that applies to products of primary need and, therefore, the one that serves to protect the basket from the basic purchase of people with lower income levels. We also limit the impact this increase could have on strategic sectors of our economy, such as the transport of goods associated with export; tourism, which accounts for more than 10% of our gross domestic product and employment; and food, which today in Spain is subject to the super-reduced or reduced rate of VAT. These tax policy decisions managed not only to reduce income, but, despite the fact that we were in economic recession with a fall in gross domestic product in nominal terms, which in 2012 came to be less than 1.9 %, tax revenues increased by 4 % compared to the previous year. When those measures were taken, our revenues rose by 7 billion euros. Of this amount, the bulk was provided by corporate tax collection, 3,344 million, while the sum of IRPF and VAT was 2,777 million. In addition, I insist that these increases were equitable in burden-sharing, both with regard to the IRPF and corporate tax. As the IRPF went up we did it in a way that was decisively proportionate to the level of income, with a supplementary levy that increased the minimum rate by only 0.75%, while the maximum rate was increased by 7 percentage points. In this way, 74% of the total levy of the supplementary tax contributed 12% of the total of taxpayers who have a base of more than €30,000. Moreover, out of 27 million taxpayers in Spain, 64,000 who earn more than EUR 150,000 per year and account for 0.25% of the total contributed more than 20% of the tax collection. As far as corporation tax is concerned, the increase we are promoting has affected only large companies, just which with a previous socialist government had decided not to bother so that they could continue to lower their effective average rates. So, as I said before, for the large consolidated groups the effective rate had been set at 3,8 % in 2011. On the other hand, between 2012 and 2013, payments to large groups and companies increased by €7.066 million, while payments to small companies continued to fall, as it could not otherwise be, as their profits did, and fell by €387 million. By regaining revenue, this fiscal policy, together with the control of public expenditure, allowed Spain to reduce the deficit and to regain its international credibility by forced marches. A credibility that, while it was low, placed us on the verge of rescue and that from then on offered us great advantages in order to be able to finance with very low interest rates the maintenance of public services and, fundamentally, the social expenditure of all administrations. Moreover, this credibility has resulted in a steady increase in foreign investment and an important improvement in stock market capitalization and the financial wealth of households. Once collection is stabilized, from the second half of 2013, the improvement in the behaviour of tax bases is warned, and tax policy addresses other tax measures to selectively stimulate entrepreneurship and economic growth, and to make the tax system more effective. I am referring to the measures to support the entrepreneur, reduction in the first two years, cash VAT, the figures to support the investment of entrepreneurs, deduction for reinvestment of profits and the creation of new enterprises, measures to boost the real estate market of leases, Socimi, and special leasing regime, the reduction of deductions to self-employed of lower income - less than 15,000 euros -, the new incentives to reduce corporate indebtedness, which had done so much damage to the economy, facilitating refinancing or restructuring of debt, initiatives to improve competitiveness or the harmonisation of taxation on bank deposits. In addition, in 2013, we launched the commission of experts for tax reform, the embryo from which will be born the tax reduction that has stimulated our economy and increased the rate of growth and the capacity to implement the retributive system, and now the reform of the General Tax Law. The result is that the tax bases, which had suffered a setback in previous years, have been positive again since the last quarter of 2013. Already in 2014, they increase by 2.6%, after six consecutive years of decline. This increase is not due to the rise in taxes, but to the improvement in economic activity that has begun to take place since the end of 2012. The start of the recovery is already, at the end of 2013, a reality and the net collection of 2014 is increased by 6,140 million euros, by 3,6% compared to 2013. In 2014, more companies were created in Spain, GDP grew by 1.4% and, fortunately, more than 400,000 jobs were created. That's when, finally, we can start lowering taxes. The tax reform that has entered into force this year has evenly lowered taxes, just as the rest of fiscal policy has developed in previous years. The average final reduction in the IRPF will be 12,5 %, although, as you know, this reduction is greater for middle and low incomes. The reduction is 23.5 % for 72% of taxpayers, who have incomes below EUR 24,000 per year. In addition, those who pay a salary of up to 12,000 euros a year - the milleurists - directly stop paying the tax; they do not even have deductions on their payroll. With the advance of the entry into force of the second phase of the reform of the reduction of the IRPF, the minimum rate has remained since July at 19,5 % and will end at 19 % in 2016, 5 points lower than that of the former socialist government, while the maximum rate will be 45 % in 2016, the same as in the previous parliamentary term; it was the Government of the People's Party that increased, in these years of crisis, the IRPF so that high incomes would pay more taxes by thus making the tax system more equitable. In addition, we have improved the family minimums after six frozen years and introduced support for large families and those in charge of disabled people. In other words, we have not only supported the welfare state in these years, despite the recession, while maintaining the social spending of all public administrations at 27.5 %, but we have encouraged, implemented and promoted fiscal equity. We have therefore curbed inequality and are promoting new aid to groups, which are the ones that need the greatest support from the State. Today we are growing and creating jobs at the head of Europe, and all this thanks to the proper handling of the tax mechanisms that governments have at our disposal. Getting out of the crisis and coping with recovery went by strengthening the entire structure of our tax system, from the organization of the tax administration itself to the ability to increase revenue, paying particular attention to the tax potential offered by large companies and people with higher incomes; and, of course, the fight against fraud had to be stepped up. Ladies and gentlemen, we had to look for new fraud bags, we had to use formulas to fight it, especially the larger fraud and tax fraud that is hidden abroad. Public finance fraud can never be tolerated. Fraud is the greatest enemy of fairness and fiscal justice. Taxes must be paid; it is the payment for living in a civilized and developed society. To this end, the rulers must design a model that will make the most of those who have the most and that at the same time will be a system that cannot escape those who have the most capacity, precisely, to go to tax evasion, tax evasion. Contributing to the support of the burdens of the State, and particularly of the welfare State, is not only a constitutional duty, it is also a civic obligation that affects and rests with us all, and that becomes even more demanding in times of economic hardship, when there are more people who lack the indispensable means to carry on a dignified life. Public finance fraud is a social scourge; a scourge that is more severe the more widespread it is and the more condemnable the greater the purchasing power or the greater the notoriety the defrauders have. That is why I have never understood those who present themselves as victims when they are subject to a tax inspection, nor those who, even from different areas - also, obviously, from important political areas - talk about persecutions to certain groups, as if the fight against fraud had to be careful not to bother one or the other or simply not to bother some who call themselves friends. The fight against fraud must be seen as one of the priorities of any democratic government and, of course, must have the support of society as a whole. The money that the fraudsters hide from tax control is necessary for all the policies of the State, but especially to support the social policies proper to the welfare State. It is a necessary money to secure universal public and free health, to ensure that children and young people have access to quality education at all levels, or to pay the social benefits of those most in need. The money that the defrauders do not provide to the public coffers is, in conclusion, money that we pay the rest of the citizens that we do comply with the law, including those to whom the most effort is hard to earn. That is why we must pursue him forcefully. This Government recognizes itself with a fiscal objective that is easy to understand and assume: let us all without exception pay what we have to pay so that we all have to pay less. If we all pay what is ours, we can have a sustainable welfare state, without having to bear high taxes. With that philosophy the Government has acted in these years and we have come to the end of this legislature by putting the means in place to achieve that goal. In addition to adopting the regulatory measures that I have detailed at the beginning of my intervention and which have enabled us to overcome the tax wreck of the past legislature, the Government has intensified the fight against tax fraud with other legal initiatives and with a strengthening of the means available to the Tax Agency. Thus, we have achieved a more effective and modern administration and a substantial improvement in both the collection results and the fiscal awareness of society. Ladies and gentlemen, every year since 2012 the Tax Agency has been collecting in the fight against fraud the equivalent of more than 1% of Spain's gross domestic product. In 2014 the largest collection in history was obtained, 12,318 million euros, and the results of the first half of this year constitute the best start of an exercise, with about 6.5 billion collections, 20% more than in the first half of last year. In these three and a half years of the legislature, more than EUR 40 billion and more than EUR 5 billion have been raised than in the previous four full years, as a result of the efforts that have been made in preventing and combating fraud and also against fraudsters, I must say, because we often talk about fraud as if it were something structural, impersonal, without protagonists, and of course there are protagonists. There's no fraud without fraudsters. The defrauders, like the debtors, are insolidary persons and companies - people with their corresponding name and surname and companies with their corresponding social reason - against which we have been acting these years, without having cared who they were, what their names were, their political affiliation or their social relevance. And from now on we will continue to do so with new means and instruments, such as those that include the current reform of the General Tax Law. Ladies and gentlemen, these outstanding results in the fight against fraud which I have mentioned are based on an exercise of political will. The Government was firm from the outset in the drive to combat fraud through initiatives in various fields. On the one hand, with management measures, which have been intensifying the activities of the Tax Agency. Here I would like to highlight the special plan of intensification of actions, adopted last year in collaboration with the civil servants' unions, which has allowed to increase the direct revenues of control actions almost 25% above the forecasts. This increase has in turn led to an improvement in the remuneration of agency staff. On the other hand, since last year we have been committed to improving the provision of material and human resources to compensate for the restrictions adopted during the years of crisis and even the neglect that occurred in previous years, when the number of officials of the Tax Agency decreased, despite the increase in the number of officials in other areas of public administration. In 2014, for the first time since 2009, the budget of the Tax Agency was slightly increased and this year the increase has been 5 %. In addition, the offer of ordinary and extraordinary public employment of these two years implies the incorporation of 2,038 workers between the free shift and the one of internal promotion. Another 244 staff members have moved voluntarily from other areas of the public sector, with surplus resources, and another 50 will do so by the end of this month. I would like to point out that since the establishment of the Tax Agency in 1992, no extraordinary offers of this importance had been convened, which precisely reflects the Government's desire to strengthen the Agency's staff. The government's determined drive, but above all the professionalism of the officials working at the Tax Agency, has resulted in an improvement in the effectiveness of its actions, both in proportion to the human resources available and the material means, so Spain is placed by its efficiency in the leadership positions of the countries in our environment. Among the measures of impulse I would like to recall Law 7/2012 of 29 October, amending the tax and budgetary regulations, which includes, among other measures, the obligation to declare goods and rights located abroad through model 720. After three years of operation, more than 197,000 taxpayers have for the first time declared assets abroad worth close to EUR 124.5 billion. This is a phenomenon that had never occurred in the history of the Spanish Treasury and allows to expand the declared tax bases and pursue the fraud of those residents whose tax returns are not consistent with the assets or income they have abroad. Following the declarations presented in the first year, in addition to reporting on new assets, taxpayers have been updating their relationship of goods and rights abroad in the following two years, reflecting separately those that have been extinguished or revoked - approximately 16 billion in 2014 and 12.5 billion in 2015 - and those in which an alteration of their value exceeds 20,000 euros - up to 70 billion in 2014 and almost 46 billion in 2015-. By type of goods, more than EUR 21.6 billion has been declared in accounts, EUR 11 billion in real estate and more than EUR 91.7 billion in funds, insurance and equity. By country, Switzerland has the largest amount of declared assets, with a total of close to EUR 20 billion, followed by Andorra, where 4 billion are declared. This initiative is linked to the special tax declaration, which regularised goods and duties for around €40 billion, which were not previously controlled by the Tax Agency, and secured nearly €1.2 billion. As I have said on other occasions, this regularization, in addition to broadening the tax bases of the main tax figures, has provided very valuable information in the fight against fraud, as has model 720. Finally, I would like to highlight the initiatives that we have taken these years in close cooperation with other countries in our environment, aimed at establishing an international system of automatic and standardized exchange of information and in the fight to prevent the erosion of tax bases of multinationals and the artificial transfer of international profits from one country to another, with the aim of circumventing the payment of taxes. In addition, Spain has continued to sign bilateral agreements to avoid double taxation with information exchange clauses, as well as information exchange agreements with countries that were in the past considered tax havens, such as Andorra, Monaco, Singapore and Hong Kong. All these initiatives have in many cases managed to encircle the defrauders who, surrounded by the action of the tax administration, have had no choice but to regularize their situation, as has happened in very notorious cases, well known to the Spanish public, which demonstrates the effectiveness of the actions undertaken. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the beginning of my speech that the tax system - its taxes, its institutions and its relations - is the most reliable mirror of the situation and the trajectory of a country. That is why the changes we have experienced in Spain over the past few years have been reflected in our tax system. A country like Spain, which was on the verge of bankruptcy, showed us without a doubt a misdirected and inefficient tax system, plunged into a serious crisis of means, resources and results; instead, a country that knew how to overcome depression, economic recession and modernise its structures set in motion a fiscal policy determined to recover its revenues and take advantage of all its potentials. It is the same country that has sought a way out of the crisis by thinking about people and has prioritized employment and social spending, which, of course, has had at its service a progressive tax policy in the effort and very aggressive against fraud. That is why we have been able to protect the fairness of the system, and today, when the country is recovering, we can afford to lower taxes to compensate the citizens for the effort they have made and to continue to drive our economic growth, our domestic demand, consumption, reducing the costs of jobs, with the consequent translation of economic growth into new employment opportunities. Spain can lower taxes because its economy allows it and even because its economy demands it. We are at a time when we must continue to stimulate economic activity in order to continue to create jobs, so that there is more and more work and more quality. That's what we're doing, it's what the President of the Government announced when he anticipated in July the reduction in the IRPF that we had planned by law to come into force on January 1, 2016. We also hope, ladies and gentlemen, to perfect our tax system so that it is increasingly fair and equitable, with the aim of being a country, in addition to solidarity, committed to the weakest, in which everyone we can pay also but less taxes, thanks to the fact that everyone pays what is his or her right and where the fiscal selfishness of fraud does not receive the understanding of anyone, but the social reproach of all the citizens, so that we can all banish this regrettable practice. One of the initiatives that has also attracted the attention of the draft organic law that we submit this afternoon to the House and of the reform of the General Tax Law and that represents the pin to the tax reform launched this year by the Government, is the one that plans to publicize from the next 31 July the list of debtors of greater amount with the Administration and the essential content of the final sentences for tax offences. I do not know whether it is necessary to clarify that these measures are not an end in themselves. The aim is not to subject anyone, debtors or defrauders to public mockery, as if we were exercising fiscal revenge. The list of debtors and the publication in the State Official Gazette of final judgments for offences against public finances, such as tax offences, punishable insolvency and smuggling, do not constitute a modern picota in which to display virtual heads of debtors or defrauders. In fact, they are promoted as an instrument to prevent fraud; an instrument to encourage voluntary payment of debts and taxes. What the Government wants is for all citizens and businesses to pay what is theirs and when it is theirs, especially those who have the most resources. Some do not do so voluntarily, because they stand behind the confidentiality afforded by the laws, in general, to tax data and think that their acts will not be known and therefore will not affect their daily coexistence or economic activity. What we do now is to lift that veil that hides the identity of citizens and insolidary companies, precisely those who are often the ones with the greatest economic power. From now on, they are warned that if they have debts and tax penalties above EUR million and do not pay them within a certain period of time, or if they are convicted of a tax offence and do not pay what is theirs before there is a final judgment against them in order to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure, their failure will be known to all, will remain naked, exposed to the social reproach of the rest of the citizens. We hope that with this measure that introduces transparency in the fight against fraud and lateness those who do not seem to fear either fines or sanctions, those who disregard the laws and believe that they are above others when it comes to paying taxes, will think twice before making frauds. If so far they can do so by thinking that no one will know their secret, from the date of the entry into force of the law they will know that their acts, in addition to the corresponding economic or judicial sanction, will be in the public domain and can have consequences both for their social relations and for the professionals. In addition to greater transparency, society also demands that the Administration have effective tools to deal with the most sophisticated fraud structures, which benefit taxpayers who have the most capacity for development and implementation. Thus, the reform of the General Tax Act introduces a new serious tax infringement for breach of tax obligations through acts or businesses constituting conflict in the application of the rule, artificial or fraudulent actions aimed solely at obtaining tax savings, abusing the provisions of tax rules. It is about addressing the most sophisticated behaviors of tax fraud. In addition, the method of indirect estimation of taxable bases is improved in cases where the Administration does not have the data necessary for its calculation. This will improve legal certainty by legally specifying the origin of the data to be used and its applicability both for the determination of revenue - sales - as well as expenditure - purchases - and provides the Tax Administration with a better instrument against the informal economy. The law also clarifies and specifies the right to verify tax obligations in the case of prescribed periods, where necessary in relation to obligations and rights relating to non-prescribed periods. I think it is important to stress that in the case of an indication of a fiscal offence, the procedure is changed. So far, the general rule assumes that when these indications appear, the case is referred to the judge or the prosecutor's office, but administrative proceedings are stopped and liquidation is not carried out, which is detrimental to the public finances. From now on, the Tax Agency will be able to continue the procedure to liquidate and collect the amounts defrauded at the expense of the court decision. This measure seeks to advance and guarantee the recovery of the defrauded money while respecting the guarantee of the judicial process. Finally, the reform introduces changes to reduce conflict and increase legal certainty. The former extends the power of the tax administration bodies to make binding interpretative or clarifying provisions to avoid the conflict over their interpretation. New lines of collaboration between taxpayers and Administration are also being opened to promote cooperative compliance with tax obligations, and the legal basis for the project for the immediate provision of information for real-time VAT management, which will start working on 1 January 2017, is being laid down. With regard to measures to increase legal certainty, new longer deadlines for the inspection procedure are laid down and the rules for their calculation are improved, so that the taxpayer is clearly aware of the deadline for the procedure. These changes entail a significant simplification of existing legislation, with clearer and more secure rules that will contribute to greater administrative efficiency and a significant reduction in tax conflict in this area. On the other hand, measures are adopted to speed up the performance of economic-administrative courts and reduce litigation, improving the regulation of procedures and promoting the use of electronic means at all stages. Among other developments, the system of unification of intra-Tribunal doctrines and the abbreviated procedure are enhanced and some time limits for resolution are shortened. Ladies and gentlemen, over the years the Government has been pushing for a reform of our tax system to boost Spain's economic and social development, to modernise and make it more fair and equitable and to improve the fight against fraud. A few months after the end of the legislature we can say that the policy we have promoted has had important positive consequences both in the socio-economic reality of the country and in improving the fairness of the system and in the pursuit of fraudulent practices. The reform of the General Tax Law particularly affects this last aspect, by placing potential defrauders and debtors in the face of the possibility of their insolidary practices becoming transparent to the eyes of all citizens and showing us the true face of people and companies who do not pay in time and form their debts and taxes. Our goal is to improve everyone's social awareness and stimulate voluntary payment by pursuing higher-value fraud and debt. Spain is preparing to live a few years of growth and job creation that will return not only hope but the levels of well-being lost during the crisis. In this new scenario, it is essential to step up action against the submerged economy, which robs workers of social rights, and against fraud and tax debts that undermine the state's and, in particular, the welfare state and oblige the rest of the citizens to pay higher taxes. We are committed to a fairer society and that includes a more equitable tax structure in which everyone pays their taxes so that they can be reduced, especially for middle and low incomes. That has been the objective of the tax policy developed these years and that is the objective of the reform of the General Tax Law that we bring to Congress and for which I request the support of its lords. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; thank you, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Each of these two bills that we are discussing together has been presented with an amendment to the full refund by the Socialist Group. To defend these two amendments, Mr Saura has the floor on his behalf.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do not deceive Mr Rajoy any more, tell him the truth, tell him that the debt Spain is more than a billion euros, tell him the truth, do not deceive him. The truth is hard, I know, I recognize it, but since you are Minister of Finance the public debt has grown by 300 billion euros, more than ever in the history of Spain and more than in any country in the world. Tell him the truth, Minister, do not deceive Mr Rajoy, the debt is more than a billion euros. Of course, Spain is not Greece, much less; the Spanish economy is a solid economy, with powerful social actors, of course, Mr Montoro. But when you came to the government, EUR 200 billion from Spain came out as a result of the little credibility of your government. When you arrived at the government, the risk premium was increased by 300 basis points. When you arrived at the government, Mr Montoro, the stock market fell. Of course Spain is not Greece; when you arrived at the government there was rescue; yes, rescue, with men in black and with memorandum included, Mr Montoro. Spain is not Greece, and you do not have the look of Mr Varufakis, of course, but I want to tell you that after what happened, Mr Draghi came - less badly than the European Central Bank changed its monetary policy - and from there there was economic growth. [[Laughter]] That was the germ of the economic growth of the Spanish economy, Mr Montoro: the change in European economic policy and particularly monetary policy, that is what happened. Because in 2005, 2006 and 2007 there was budgetary surplus; in 2007 there was primary surplus, in 2007 the debt in Spain relative to GDP was 35 % of GDP, 35 %, that never in history, never in history, and as a result of the economic crisis, indeed, the collection fell, but in 2007 the collection was set at 200,000 million euros with these tax laws; 200,000 million euros, more than ever in the history of the collection. Then comes the economic crisis, of course, a tough crisis, and at that time the harvest falls, Mr Montoro. But never in history, never in the history of democracy, Spain has had three years of budgetary surplus: 2005, 2006 and 2007. You get great today when you talk about fighting tax fraud, you get great. Citizens who have been able to listen to him will think: is this the minister who passed a tax amnesty? What will your taxpayers think as Minister of Finance, who approved a tax amnesty that has been welcomed by many leaders of your party, in particular the economic vice president of the Aznar government? What will the taxpayers think of their tax amnesty, which Mr Bárcenas, for example, welcomed? When you talk about fighting fraud and improving fiscal awareness, what will taxpayers think when they know that the Tax Agency does not want to charge the People's Party the corporation tax? That is, despite the prosecutor's saying one thing, the judge's saying another, and the National Court's saying another, the political direction of the Tax Agency is that illegal donations should not count when calculating corporation tax. What will the taxpayers who have to pay corporation tax or income tax on natural persons think of their tax policy, Mr Montoro? What will taxpayers think when they have heard news that the political leadership of the Tax Agency has stopped some managers, some inspectors because they wanted some multinational company to pay their taxes? What will taxpayers think of their fiscal policy when they have made a great effort to fight fraud by talking about their fiscal policy this afternoon? Mr Montoro, never in history in such a short time has there been so many scandals in the Tax Agency since you are Minister of Finance, never so many scandals. That is why it has become a great balance sheet today, but the balance sheet of its fiscal policy is very sad, unfortunately very sad. He wanted to make that balance sheet, I insist, but the political balance sheet he has made here is not credible. It is not credible because there are indeed many scandals. Now, when the legislature is over, it brings us two laws to this Parliament that are part of the set of laws of its fiscal policy, the fiscal policy of Mr Montoro and the People's Party. Why have we tabled amendments to all these laws? Our amendments to the whole have logically to do with the laws, but they are also amendments to the whole of their fiscal policy. They are amendments to the laws because the Government does not want to publish the names of those who receive the tax amnesty. You can do so by changing the General Tax Law, as you know, Mr. Montoro, but you do not want to publish the names of those who have received that tax amnesty. Nor are you going to publish the list of fraudsters for tax offences or administrative sanctions, which you have been promising for two and a half years, Mr Montoro. He won't even publish the list of convicted fraudsters. He will publish the list of those convicted of tax fraud who cannot pay or endorse his conviction. Nor will the list of fraudsters for administrative sanctions be published if they pay, not even that of those fraudsters for administrative sanctions, for example, who have an administrative penalty of EUR 900,000. Mr Montoro, you have brought us to this House many laws in this legislature, especially tax increases and tax cuts to a few, but never a deception like the one that brings us here this afternoon. He ends the legislature by deceiving the Spaniards because he has said one thing and, as always, he does another. I told him a few minutes ago at the beginning of my speech that it is an amendment to his fiscal policy, that of the Government, because it is a conservative fiscal policy that protects the highest incomes, that wants a state of minimum welfare, jibarized, because in reality he does not believe in the state of welfare. In short, your fiscal policy, Mr Montoro, can be simplified as long as you have, so much for the Treasury. I'll give you some examples. Not only did they approve of the tax amnesty, but they also do not want names to be known, which damages the tax conscience and damages public revenues. At this point I would like to say that it is perfectly possible to publish it and it also has two advantages. It is the guarantee necessary to bet on democratic regeneration, the condition necessary to make a genuine bet on democratic regeneration in our country. Furthermore, Mr Montoro, your publication is a guarantee that no further tax amnesty will be approved in our country. In his speech, he said that the names of fraudsters were actually going to be published, but the full list of fraudsters was not going to be published, but the list of convicted persons who could not pay or endorse their conviction was going to be published. I mean, whoever can pay is going to buy his pardon; another gift, another amnesty on the part of Mr Montoro. Another example of its fiscal policy: 1,800 fewer members of the Tax Agency during the legislature. In the years of the socialist government the number of troops grew in the Tax Agency and with you the number of troops has been reduced by 1,800, so that when he speaks of the fight against fraud and of objectives fulfilled the data of this afternoon what they come to say is that we come to enter practically the same as in the years of the government of the Socialist Party. There is no policy change, there is no policy change and there is no strategy change. According to the data that you told us here this afternoon in the House, we are entering the same thing that was entered in the Socialist Party years and we have 1,800 fewer troops. That means that the employees of the Tax Agency are functioning effectively, as they have always done. I can keep talking about your tax policy. As soon as there is an improvement in the collection, it is not used to replace the social cuts. There is an improvement in collection, but the cut in social policy, which is around EUR 15 billion, is not replenished. It is to improve the welfare of the richest 1% in the country. When there is an improvement in collection it is not to replace the decrease that has occurred in the Social Security hut. Mr Montoro, there were 70 billion euros and they're going to leave it in half. The improvement in collection is not to try to recompose the social security hedge, no; it is for the 1 % richest in the country. When there is an improvement in collection, it is not to lower taxes to lower incomes. You have raised taxes by EUR 21 billion, not counting the municipalities and the autonomous communities, and you have basically been at the expense of average incomes and workers, but when you improve the collection, it is for the 1 % richest in the country, which is the one that takes almost 9 billion euros of your tax reform. [[The Lord]] Mr. Montoro, you said so. You said when you arrived in 2012 that you were going to raise taxes to higher incomes by raising the IRPF. If what he does now is to remove what the IRPF has gone up, as he says it was progressive, what he does is to return to them the taxes that had gone up, but the VAT has not gone down, neither the IBI nor the rest of the taxes. That is to say, it has raised taxes to the whole world - also to this 1% - and, when it improves the collection, to this 1% they are withdrawn and, consequently, their savings improve. All the others, on average incomes, have the cuts of 15 billion euros and the rest of the taxes. Then its fiscal policy is a policy that transfers welfare and resources from middle income and workers to higher income. That is their fiscal policy: pure and hard elitism, regressivity and care for the highest incomes. Mr. Montoro, that's your tax policy. In addition, we have a state of raquitic and minimal well-being. Taking advantage of the economic crisis, which has fallen, we have stood at 38% in relation to GDP. Taking advantage of the drop in collection, we stayed at 38%. We are at the level of Lithuania, Bulgaria or Romania. That is the level of public revenue you want for the Spanish economy. A different fiscal policy is possible within the framework of rigour, orthodoxy and budgetary stability. Another fiscal policy within budgetary stability and balance is perfectly possible. Don't tell me Spain was broken. If it was broken with 70 billion euros, how is Spain now with a debt of more than one billion euros? Mr. Montoro, how are you now if it was broken before? A different fiscal policy can be made, but you opt for a determined fiscal policy that involves raising taxes to middle income, making cuts, a state of minimum welfare and lowering taxes to higher incomes. All that together is a welfare transfer from the lowest income to the highest income. I didn't want to talk to you this afternoon just about the regressivity of your tax policy. I also wanted to talk to you about the irresponsibility of your fiscal policy. Given the risks arising from the Greek crisis and the chance that markets will launch a new offensive against the euro, as happened in the years 2011 and 2012, it is very irresponsible to lower taxes to that 1 % richer when Spain has a billion euros in debt, when we are closer to a deficit of 6 % than 4,2 %, when tax revenues are growing in homogeneous terms to 4 % until May, according to the data of the Tax Agency, but the objectives of the budgets are that they had to grow to 5,4 %. The 10-year bonus is around 2.3%, but in updating the stability programme you know that the whole macroeconomic and budgetary picture is made on the assumption that the 10-year bonus is 1.3%. If we are going to have a 2.3% bond, that means that with a debt volume of one billion euros the debt service costs you 10 billion more euros, with one more point. With all these risks, the government irresponsibly lowers taxes to the richest 1%. I did not want to talk to you this afternoon only about regressivity, I also wanted to talk about irresponsibility from the point of view of the economic and political moment that we are living. In short, an amendment to your entire fiscal policy because, as I said in my speech, another fiscal policy is possible from budgetary balance and from rigour. You bring an amendment to the General Tax Act, which apparently entails greater powers for the tax administration in the fight against fraud. He has commented on this in his speech. But such regulation, as you also know, has been questioned by the Council of State in matters such as sanctions that stem from the so-called conflict in the application of the rule. And I wonder, Mr Montoro, why not make an annual law defining with all the requirements of the principle of legality, for example, the cases of infringement arising from aggressive tax planning? Is it not much safer, from a legal point of view, an annual law than the Government proposes, which, on the other hand, the Council of State says is not in the right direction and legal certainty? In the area of prescriptions, for example, the Council of State also raises concerns, as well as in the area of inspection proceedings. This question of the Council of State will be used by taxpayers. But why taxpayers? Obviously, for taxpayers with greater economic capacity, who have a higher percentage of winning future lawsuits, it is clear that these more technical issues of their fiscal policy also apply them more rigorously to average incomes and to workers than to higher incomes and to powerful ones, even in these more technical issues. That is why we have tabled the amendments as a whole, because it does not want the names of those who received the tax amnesty to be known. And I'm telling you, they're going to get to know each other because a socialist government is going to publish them. Do not have any doubt, the names of those who receive the tax amnesty will be published. That is why we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, because they do not want them to be published and because a list of fraudsters is not going to be published, as you said two and a half years ago. It's not going to be published. No, no, The list of those condemned who cannot pay for their salvation, who cannot buy their forgiveness, will be published. And we have made an amendment to it in its entirety because its fiscal policy, as I have said throughout my speech, is regressive, bet by the richest, by the highest incomes, by 1% of this society, and because they do not believe in the welfare state, because that is their ideological option. They don't want the welfare state. And taking advantage of the crisis, they want to leave a jibarized, minimal, small welfare state. That's what they want to do with the welfare state. Precisely because we are finishing the legislature and because that is the characteristic of its fiscal policy, it seems to us that we need amendments to the whole of the two laws and the amendment to the whole of its fiscal policy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u5	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, I can only reply to your honor from the rostrum to tell you, in short, that you have a cause for submitting an amendment to the whole of the laws that the Government is defending today. The reason is that you, the Socialist Group in this House and your spokesman, have opposed each and every initiative that the Government has taken in this legislature; each and every one of you, it does not matter what it is. The Socialist Group is going to end the legislature with a medal for having obstructed, for having opposed, for having obstructed all the reforms that Spain needed to get out of this economic crisis. That's your merit, Mr. Saura. That's a lot of merit your honor has accumulated! The events have denied him the most elementary of the reasons, the softest of the conditions that his lordship can bring about as a parliamentarian and as a representative of the Socialist Group. When a group exercises destructive opposition, that group has a public responsibility, Mr Saura. You can't come up here to repeat falsehood over and over again about falsehood. Falseness that is not supported in any of his approaches, precisely when the figures we are talking about testify to very different results that his lordship does not even have the capacity to recognize. Government actions in the field of public finances and public administrations are measured and quantified. Budget policies are useful or not according to their objectives. Is it true or is it not true that Spain has recovered the tax collection it had before the economic crisis in the income tax of individuals, in VAT, in excise duties? Where we have not recovered, because we cannot recover it, it is precisely in the company tax that, obviously, is affected by the lack of profits from companies and especially from small and medium-sized enterprises. Have we done so or have we not done so? Is it true or not, Mr Saura, that the fight against fraud has recorded unknown figures in the statistics series on the fight against fraud in our country? You have come to say some figures this afternoon in the rostrum that place the control of fraud above EUR 12.3 billion and that they are the same ones that were registered with the socialist governments. Do you know the numbers or do you repeat topics? I mean, do you drive them or don't you drive them? You're systematically falsifying. Just as false when he claims that the government reduces taxes to 1% of taxpayers with the highest income. But can greater falsehood be contained in your statement? Against this, we will bring very soon the decree-law where we will materialise the fall in the income tax of natural persons and we will check - as I said this afternoon - that more than 70% of taxpayers who have medium and low incomes will pay 25% less income tax than they paid with the last government of President Zapatero. Is that true or not, Mr. Saura? [[Applauds]] Where was the Socialist Group when I myself defended in this rostrum - at a tragic moment in Spanish society, as it was in 2012 - that the progressive income tax had to be raised? What were you guys telling me? Did you support the rise of the 7 points in the progressive nature of the personal income tax? No, they didn't support anything, no matter what we do. And this afternoon comes to say that all we do is get back to the 2011 situation as far as higher incomes are concerned. Exactly. No taxpayer will pay more taxes with the People's Party government than it paid with the socialist government, and 70% of more than 20 million taxpayers will pay 25% less than they paid with the last socialist government. [[Applauds]] These are the results, which, by the way, did not appear in our electoral programme. We knew that we were going to face a very difficult situation in 2012, so on the People's Party agenda we didn't say that we were going to lower the income tax on natural persons; we didn't say that out of responsibility, because we knew that we were really going to have to face the most difficult period in our history. We are now doing so and we benefit from our country's average and low incomes, which are the majority of taxpayers and those who are macroeconomicly driving with their greater economic capacity this recovery based on domestic demand. What happened to corporation tax, Mr. Saura? Aren't you the government that made big companies not pay corporate tax? Was it not you, the socialist government, the left-wing government, the government that advocated that tax policy really could be different? Where was Mr. Sanchez? Was he not a Member of this House in 2010, when the large consolidated groups in Spain did not pay corporate tax in this crisis? Wasn't he? [[A Member: I wasn't there.]] There was no one here in his place, but I would swear that you were sitting in those seats, supporting a tax policy with a lack of equity, which treated taxpayers differently according to their economic capacity. The big companies in our country didn't pay corporate tax. Good thing you treated these big companies well, from you to you, but we had to change the conditions for them to pay and prevent the financial expenses from being completely deductible from the tax base, a law that we brought to this House and to which you opposed. They then said they were going to oppose it because it seemed to them little. Great, less bad! That's why we've tripled the actual type of tax that big groups pay. Is that right or not, Mr. Saura? Didn't that guy get up? Why didn't you, who were so progressive? Or did they forget progress when talking to large taxpayers with economic capacity? And I'm going to tell you something more, if you like, even more frankly, because that's what allows the progress of the legislature, let's talk more frankly. They wouldn't let them change their tax policy? Because if the collection fell, why didn't you take away that freedom of amortization that made all the related expenses and financial expenses that involved very important investments outside Spain deductible in the matrices in Spain? Why didn't you do that policy? Did anyone stop him? You who were so progressive and so left-wing! He had to get to the right to get the big taxpayers to pay and with their contribution to get us out of this economic crisis. Is that right or not, Mr. Saura? As for what you call fiscal amnesty, who has made in this country an amnesty in which the names of the people who took care of it have never been known? Who did it? The socialist governments, supported, by the United Left at that time, with interventions by representatives of the United Left from this very rostrum, and it is reflected in the 'Diary of Sessions'. This is what needs to be done to fight fraud and improve fiscal awareness! That is the story of this House and its participants. What did you do with the first Falciani list when you arrived in Spain? List which, by the way, contained specific names of taxpayers. What did you do, Mr. Saura, weren't you in the government when that list arrived? Did they make public the contents of that list, the names of the taxpayers who were on that list and who had their deposits in Switzerland? Did they make it public? No, they didn't make it public. Now what are you talking about? What moral category do the positions of that Government have? You were a senior member of that government. Or weren't you in that government? No, you were in another area, you were in college. You were a high office of that Government when such practices were carried out in our country. I also wonder - and I answer myself alone, it's a rhetorical question - why you didn't publish those kinds of lists of taxpayers who had your accounts in Switzerland. They were not the ones who regularized themselves. No, someone pointed them out and actually had those accounts in Switzerland. What happened? That you, as such a progressive Government, seeking both equity and increased fiscal awareness, what you did was take advantage of the confidentiality of those laws. Mr. Saura, I don't know how you fill your mouth with such requests when what we're doing is picking up the fruits of a fiscal regularization of an extent like there's never been in the history of the Spanish Treasury. Is it true or not that these more than 140,000 taxpayers are on the tax agency's computers today and were not at the beginning of 2012? Is it true or not? Isn't that right? [[Mr. Pradas Torres: Not true]] Nothing's true to you. Mr Saura, you have obstructed this economic recovery and the argument of public debt is also formidable. Of course, I have a responsibility to be the Minister of Finance and Public Administration who has increased public debt. You know for what? I've explained it many times, but you don't care. Public debt has been increased by the high public deficit that our administrations have, a deficit that we are lowering with an equitable tax policy and sustaining the spending states of our country's major social benefits: pensions, unemployment insurance, health care, education. And do you know why the public debt has increased? To pay the commercial debt, because you did not fulfill your responsibility to control the debt that the territorial administrations had with the providers of education, health and social protection. You didn't pay the bills and so obviously there's no debt. But there is debt, latent debt, the worst of debts, which causes all suppliers of public administrations to break down, which subtracts and impedes the credibility of Spain. That is the debt, the commercial debt, which is largely responsible for this increase in debt, together with the debt derived from the MEDE for the consolidation of the banking sector, without which we would today be seeing what we are unfortunately seeing in other euro countries, and I am referring to the financial corralito that other euro area countries are suffering. None of this happens in Spain because a fiscal policy has been made to restore confidence, both inside and outside Spain, because structural reforms, labour reform, public sector reforms, energy reforms, education reforms have been made. Thanks to this Spain is growing and creating jobs. Or isn't it true that we are growing and creating jobs, Mr. Saura? You've denied it. And do you know why they denied it, until they had no choice but to recognize it publicly? You have denied it because you do make politics from those banks, of course you make politics! And they do it by opposing all the reforms and laws that have allowed this economic recovery and that today Spain is facing with reliability and security its future. It is doing so, and what we are experiencing in terms of interest rates, somewhat higher these days, will be corrected when we are finally correcting a problem that Europe has today, which is called Greece. We are not in the euro crisis, we are not in the crisis of sustainability of public debt in Europe. Today the problem of Europe, of the euro, is called Greece, and it is certainly regrettable that it is so, that it has a name, but we are not in the general crisis, neither of the euro nor of the public debt. Therefore, we Spaniards today are more strengthened to deal with the consequences that can produce approaches from any member country of the European Union or the euro; today we are experiencing this economic recovery and this job creation. Of course, Mr Saura, thanks to your cooperation, it has not been, because today you have added one more to the opposition policy that the Socialist Group has been making from this House to all the reforms by system, opposing a reform, such as the one we bring to the General Tax Law, of identifying debtors and those who may be involved in a firm fiscal offence, sentenced in the courts. I will also tell you why we have been slow to bring this law. Because it has already exerted a good part of its effects. The list of debtors was much longer at the beginning of this parliamentary term - but much longer - and with improper contents, since no one should be debtor, but especially they should not be companies, people who have a great social standing and therefore, given the nature of their role in society, the last thing they can do is to be debtors of public finances. All of this has been corrected and there is another kind of policy, which is the policy that through advertisements is emerging and exercising its effectiveness. That is why, today, at the end of this parliamentary term, we can bring two laws such as those containing these preliminary drafts that we submit to the House. It is time to hold constructive discussions on the content of the laws under consideration in this House. For the reasons I have just explained - I do not understand the quantitative, none, and less the qualitative - what I would ask the Socialist Group to withdraw the amendment to the whole of it, since, as we have seen in it, it does not concern it with the content of the laws, but with maintaining an obstructive political position, and it should rethink in key moments, even critical moments, as we are living in Spanish society, what it aspires to because what we all want is to consolidate and to enter once and for all into a long phase of economic growth, of job creation, and for that we must have the reliability in the functioning of our institutions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u7	Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, how can you talk about political responsibility when you said: Do not vote in favour of the government to avoid a rescue; let Spain sink, that we will already recover it. There must be no such irresponsible phrase in the history of Spanish parliamentarianism, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] That you speak to me of political responsibility after you have spoken that phrase in this Parliament, at that time so important to Spain! You have no credibility in talking about responsibility to this parliamentary group or to anyone else in the House, Mr Montoro, after that phrase you said at the time. Secondly, I know the figures; who does not know the figures is the President of the Government of Spain who yesterday, in a television interview, did not know what Spain's public debt was. The President of the Government! [[Applauds]] But can anyone be president of the Government of Spain not knowing Spain's public debt? I know all the numbers of the Spanish Public Treasury, but the president of the government doesn't know them. Someone who is President of the Government and does not know Spain's public debt does not deserve or have the conditions to be President of the Government of Spain. Economic recovery, Mr Montoro, has to do with the change in European economic policy. Point number one. And, point two, employment, according to the Banco de España, is growing to 3%. We have IGAE's data on income from social contributions. Until May, income from social contributions, for the first time in history, has declined. In other words, we are creating employment at 3% and social contributions have decreased. What kind of jobs, what kind of recovery do we have? That is the key, the type of employment; you measure not only growth in terms of GDP but the type of employment. Of course, productivity is important, but this type of employment does not solve the problem of inequality and does not contribute to economic recovery. These are the data, look at them; they are the data of the IGAE: it decreases the contribution of the contributions when the employment is growing to 3%. As for its tax reform, the richest 1% of this country takes more of its tax reform than the 14 million Spaniards who earn the least in our country. [[Rumors]] Who says that? The Socialist Group? No, no, Fedea, Mr. Montoro, Fedea. The richest 1% takes more than 14 million Spanish taxpayers who have less income. This is the reality of your tax reform. They are not data from the Socialist Party, they are not invented; they are from Fedea. I could talk to you about the annex too, so you can look at it. Mr Montoro, you play with which there are so many Spaniards that these debates, unfortunately, cannot see them because, how can you say that with their tax reform the Spaniards will pay less taxes than when you came to the government? If no one believes that! If you have raised taxes by 21 billion euros, discounting the 9 billion of your tax reform! You have raised taxes 21 billion euros, not counting - I insist - the IBI, which is of the municipalities and that they have had to raise it because you have not adjusted fiscally, you have not reduced your deficit; you have had to reduce the municipalities and the autonomous communities, but you do not, you have more deficit now than at first - I mean the central administration -. [[Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero Makes Negative Signs]] Yes, in absolute terms, Mr Montoro; yes. Not counting the IBI and all taxes, 21 billion euros, basically middle income and workers. In addition, it has cut education, health, housing and social policy by 15 billion. That's the summary of your tax policy. It says here that the taxes paid by the Spaniards are now less - yes, yes, they are less! - and that the fiscal awareness of the Spaniards has improved. You know perfectly well that the fiscal conscience of the Spaniards has gone to worse, and something has to do with - here are the data of the Institute of Fiscal Studies - their fiscal amnesty; not that of twenty-four years ago, Mr Montoro, when the Tax Agency was created, but that of twenty-four months ago. In addition, all those bases that have come out by model 720 you know perfectly well that the Tax Agency already knew about them, that taxpayers who have goods abroad had already declared them. Model 720 hasn't come up with those resources you're saying, it's inventing. The Tax Agency already had information on a large part of these assets abroad from some taxpayers, he knows perfectly well. He's fooled the Spaniards here again. With regard to the public debt, he said: it is as a result of what you left behind. The increase in public debt has to do, first, with the rescue - yes, the rescue, with black men to save Private Rat, the banks, the financial system - and, secondly, with the debt of some autonomous communities. Yes, for example, that of the Valencian Community...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u9	Your Honor, you must conclude, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u10	... that of Madrid, that of Castile and León. Yeah, that debt. Because the only administration in our country that has been punished as a result of concealing deficit is the administration of the Valencian Community. That was the problem, Mr. Montoro. I'm done. You told the Spaniards that you weren't going to raise taxes, that you were going to lower them, don't talk about the deficit now, Mr Montoro. You told the Spaniards by active and passive that by lowering taxes there would be more activity and, as a result, more collection - your Laffer curve, the one you believed in when you were in opposition -. He fooled the Spaniards because he said he was going to bring them down because lowering them would make more money. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u11	Your Honor, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u12	And he has done quite the opposite, he has raised taxes like no finance minister in the history of Spain. Therefore - and I finish now, Mr President - tax amnesty, tax increase as never before, partisan use of the Tax Agency, reduction of the number of staff of the Tax Agency...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u13	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u14	I'm done. And the largest volume of cuts in history. Mr. Montoro, a poem as Minister of Finance. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, the poem we leave to My Cid because yours really is of the great conqueror, your poem is constant, continuous and the litany cannot have less substratum and foundation. Before being a member - and very honoured to be a member - of the opposition and economic coordinator of the Group of the European People's Party in this House opposing a socialist government, I had already been a finance minister, I had already been Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, and before that I was also a member of this House opposing Mr Gonzalez's socialist government. When we arrived at the government in 1996, in which I was Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, it seemed impossible for Spain to found the euro. Why? Because a socialist government had left Spain with 25% unemployment rate and a public deficit of 7% of gross domestic product. The average income of the Spaniards in 1996 was almost half of the current income and in that year we were working in Spain 12.5 million people, compared to the more than 20 million that we came to work in 2007. [[A Member of Parliament: You'd like that!]] Mr. Zapatero lost the election in 2011. [[Rumors]] Mr Zapatero had indebted Spain to the rest of the world in that order of magnitude which so drew the attention of 90% of our gross domestic product, 92%, of our gross domestic product of external debt, when he had a group in the opposition telling him that it was in the course of a very serious economic policy error. Mr Zapatero destroyed 3.5 million jobs with his policy in the last period of his term of office - 3.5 million jobs - when we told him from those benches in the opposition that he was doing an incorrect economic policy, which he was taking to Spain where he was taking it. We told him about it from our group in the opposition and I told him about it as a member of that group and the economic coordinator of that group in the opposition; I told him about it from those seats and I told him about it from this rostrum. By the way, what I never said in my life was that Spain fell that we would already raise it others. Never, ever. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yes, yes]] Never. Never. [[Rumors]] I challenge him - as he says so much - to see in what minutes I uttered such a phrase - that is, he will not see it - or to see if in the recordings of the chambers of this Congress I said it in some hallway, because so I will know what I am saying. I am the owner of my words at this point, and of my political responsibilities, obviously; that has been invented by someone in this House and made fortune among you. Do you know what I wanted in 2010? Let the Government of Spain change. That is exactly what I wanted, because I was convinced that this change of government was going to put an end to the agony that Spain was experiencing. But there were other political groups in this House that did not coincide with what we thought in the People's Parliamentary Group and supported the Government in 2010, and that is the responsibility of the other political groups who did that, who supported their Government in 2010 and prolonged the agony of Spanish society two more years; that is your responsibility, that of you and of those who voted in favour of those measures, of those proposals for measures. Those proposals were the freezing of pensions, a useless measure; it was the reduction of the salaries of officials by 5%, a useless measure; they were those who passively witnessed the deterioration of the quality of public finances seeing the deterioration of tax collection and did absolutely nothing in tax policy against large companies, a useless measure. That's what you guys did. And by the way, Mr Sánchez, who was in this House in 2010, did so by supporting his Government. [[Rumors]] Yeah, it's just the story. Mr. Sanchez also has his story. He comes up here sometimes and I hear him say, "I'm new." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I was sitting here supporting that policy which was the one that made Spain sink into the deepest economic crisis, a crisis of external indebtedness, as we had rightly explained to you from the opposition, and we had to change that state of affairs. And, by the way, we also had to change government, yes, of course we had to change government!, and that is why we appealed to the responsibility of other political groups who then imbued themselves with the spirit that Spain really still had a solution with that government, and that it had no solution, as has been shown by the facts. From there, Mr Saura, we received a country whose government in the stability programme that it had sent to the European Commission, approved by the European Commission, said that it was going to close the public deficit by 6% of gross domestic product in 2011 and instead of 6 was 9%; that is, EUR 30 billion more. That, plus the commercial debt, which is ultimately the debt of public administrations in relation to their suppliers; recognized already in the public deficit but not paid, not paid, and therefore did not appear in that public debt. Also, in 2011 - in which we do support the Caisses Act, we were almost co-rapporteurs of that Caisses Act in 2010; and we support it because it was very necessary to do so in Spain - the policy you were doing to clean up the banking sector was not believed by anyone and, of course, was not believed by the markets. Therefore, it was not a matter of rescuing the banks at our government stage, but of rescuing the depositors. Can you imagine that in Spain we would have had a banking crisis like other countries in the European Union and the euro of that size? By the way, in some of those small countries with corralite included. That has not happened in Spain and it is because we have paid suppliers. We started paying suppliers at the worst time in Spain in the spring of 2012, more than €24 billion to our public administrations. We began to recognize that deficit, the unrecognized and the unidentified, the worst of those deficits and, of course, we told the Spaniards that we were actually living a very critical moment, a moment where many and very important voices were asking for the rescue inside and outside Spain. Important media also called for the rescue for Spain because they said that it was not possible for us to continue alone and to continue for ourselves with these policies. It was possible because these policies are facilitating the economic recovery of Spain and are making Spain today a differential and still incipient economic growth, but fortunately more and more significant, job creation. Why does Spain grow more than other countries do if monetary policy is the same? We will have done well in Spain to have that growth! That means structural reforms and budgetary policies, based on telling the truth to the Spanish, of course, and asking from this rostrum for public apologies and repeatedly for having to raise taxes. At the time, as demonstrated in this year 2015, we have already been able to lower them and we are collecting more, just as at the stage when I had the honour of being a member of the Government of Spain. It was a stage in which the economy was not indebted to the proportions with which it was indebted to the previous socialist governments, a stage in which public finances were healed, the commercial debt virtually stagnant and, of course, controlled, a stage in which we lowered taxes and collected more. I do not know what your honor is referring to now in relation to the evolution of social security contributions. The social security contributions that your Honor has denounced this afternoon, of course, are favoured by a government policy to reduce the weight of these contributions. And, of course, they are feeling what is the consequence, first of all, of the flat rate and now of the minimum of EUR 500 from which the social security contribution is paid. Obviously that makes us less dynamic in the evolution of social security contributions. You don't agree with that policy? Don't you agree that we really lower social security contributions? [[Rumors]] He does not agree with anything - at least acknowledge it - of what is happening in this House. On the other side of the river is the state. The State has been financing, at the worst time of the crisis, in 2012 of the order of 24 billion euros to Social Security because it is more than 13 billion euros that the State dedicates to minimum pensions, to non-contributory pensions of Social Security. That, plus the contribution to unemployment insurance, which obviously when so many jobs were being destroyed could not be financed with own contributions, is what explains why the General Administration of the State has not further reduced its deficit. You know why? Because we've allocated it to social benefits. That is why we have not slowed down the deficit of the General Administration of the State. He's down, but not like that. We have also financed the territorial administrations and have borne the costs of that funding. If we hadn't done that policy, the state of autonomy would have broken. Here in Spain no autonomous or municipal government has broken or closed. The state has taken charge of all of them with financial costs that, fortunately, have been reduced as we gained credibility and confidence. The fact that very important autonomous communities in Spain could not be financed in the markets has been remedied by a policy of responsibility of the Government of Spain. That is the responsibility assigned by the Spanish Constitution to whom we have the task of exercising the Government. That is why, Mr Saura, you do not have one of those reasons, except for the qualifications that you have been continuously issuing in this legislature and as you have just done this afternoon once again. You can't hold - Fedea doesn't hold it or anyone who actually handles the figures can hold it - that the tax rebate we're applying in the IRPF isn't going to middle and low incomes. No one supports that, except you and Mr. Sanchez. His secretary general does; he does it every time he talks. You are gripped with the argument that the policy of the People's Party government favours a few who are the most economically able. That is a topic that is not supported by any figures. [[Applauds]] I have asked you before why we were not supported when we established this transitional and progressive surcharge in the IRPF. Why didn't they support us? They didn't even support us at the time! Now we take it off, but it is clear that during these years, the worst years of the crisis, we have asked more of those who have the most income. I have already explained earlier with figures that 70% of this revenue comes from 20% of taxpayers with the highest reported income. That is what we have demanded of them and that is what makes the whole of our tax system more equitable. At the moment we are reducing taxation and we are doing so much more proportionally to lower income contributors, to milleurists, to whom we are no longer applying even retention on their payroll. From there, there are reductions of 24% for 70% of taxpayers, who are in the band with a limit of 24,000 euros. Therefore, Mr Saura, your speech is full of what we might call conscious ignorance; ignorance that does not hold itself in a normal contrast of figures. You repeat and repeat mantras to see if anyone - not in this House, but outside it - accepts the charity of your arguments. They have come to say, as you have said, that these nearly 124 billion new tax information, which the Tax Agency had never had and which it has today under the 750 and 720, was already known to the Tax Agency. You introduced them to me at first as a finance minister! You deny the most obvious and tangible things of the country's own tax statistical information. By the way, we are the country of the world that best provides that information, but you all give the same in terms of knowledge, because the information makes it the affirmation of a series of prejudices that you try to give political value to. In short, Mr Saura, you are not going to support these amendments to the General Tax Law because, as I have summarized before, you have not supported anything, absolutely nothing. Therefore, now that you are at that stage, that you are so new in Spain that to occupy territorial power, power in public administrations, power in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities of Spain do not hesitate to rely on the radical left - that that is new because you are absorbing the other, you are in a process of fusion - you who are presenting yourself in society now as I do not know what new left you want to represent, I say this because I summarize what your status and your contribution in this legislature has been. They have not had a single effective policy initiative to help Spain overcome this economic crisis and enter the new phase of economic growth and job creation. They have done what I said before, and I have tried to be the cuttest, they have done a policy of destructive opposition, as they continue to do at the end of the legislature. Mr Saura, I will confirm to you this afternoon that we will continue to govern, these chambers will continue to carry out their entire activity fully until the last day of the legislature. That is why there will be plenty of time to move forward and pass these new laws and we are open to amendments - but bring some constructive - of all the political groups in this House; it is also the time to embark on the new law of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016, which is the same as a serious country; it is the commitment of a president of government capable of being leading with his political initiative this exit from the crisis in Spain and that he can sit with his European partners and try to find solutions for all those countries, offering the experience that doing the homework at home, doing and promoting the structural reforms contained in the laws, as we are debating this afternoon, is how it is confirmed that Spain is that reliable partner of the euro that is leading the economic growth of the euro and, most importantly, that more and more Spaniards are finding employment opportunities. This is how the conditions are laid down for Spain to be a country with genuine social cohesion, a country of equal opportunities, leading the great European project that means integration into the euro. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Mrs Valerio Cordero asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u17	Mrs. Valerio, what do you want?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u18	I wanted to speak in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure because the Minister, Mr Montoro, has failed in the decorum and good name of this parliamentary group. As long as I am present in the Chamber and systematically the Minister uses the speaker's rostrum, I do not know if you are already in the electoral campaign and have to systematically launch the rally... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u19	Your Honor, you have to tell us what the group has missed. I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u20	He missed the decorum calling us radicals. [[Several Members: This is not the case]] This parliamentary group has always been respectful... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u21	Your Honor, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u22	...with the Constitution, with the laws... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u23	Your Honor, you don't have the floor, please. Thank you. Position fixing. Mr Larreina has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I rise to this rostrum with a small satisfaction, a certain calm and a great desolation. A small satisfaction because, picking up what Fray Luis de León said yesterday..., I see that what we had raised since the beginning of the legislature from Amaiur in this rostrum, that one of the structural problems of the Spanish state was tax fraud and that it was an element that had to be addressed with seriousness, determination and determination, begins to be present in the Minister's speech for a season. That gives us some satisfaction. He said that he also gives us some peace of mind, because fortunately in Euskal Herria we have fiscal sovereignty to decide our own rules on fundamental taxes, and that gives us some peace of mind because the misconceptions that have been made in recent years - not only in this legislature, but also in the previous ones - will not affect the citizenship of Euskal Herria. Finally, he said that the debate that we see in this House, and today we have just seen, was a great desolation for us. It causes us a great desolation because we are also concerned about the situation of citizenship in the Spanish State, of the Spanish, even if we have our own identity and want to be independent. But we are concerned, and we see that here all the debates, instead of making concrete proposals to solve the problems of citizenship, are reduced to one and you more, to getting screwed up with each other, and today the debate has been a very clear example. On the one hand, we had the minister - who looks like Bilbao - who says that the Spanish tax system is the best in the world, the most effective, and so on. Well, the figures don't say that, but the opposite. Talking about tax fraud without talking about putting the means aside from words, in the end, it's left in empty words. There is concrete evidence that there is no effective will to combat tax fraud, but neither in this legislature nor in the previous one. Let's go to concrete data. As for the number of tax inspectors in the Spanish State, in proportion to the rest of the European Union, we have the last place, that is, in the Spanish State there is one tax inspector for every 2,000 inhabitants; while in Germany we are talking about one tax inspector for every 740 inhabitants; in France, one tax inspector for every 942 inhabitants; in Greece - which is the world's disaster - there is one tax inspector for every 1,216 inhabitants. This is concrete evidence of concrete commitments to combat tax fraud, and that is where we see no will in this Government or in the previous one. They're easy-to-take measures. I do not say that it is necessary to go from one day to another to double the number of Finance inspectors, but at least in this legislature and the previous one new places of Finance inspectors could have been opened, and that has not happened. That is a concrete element, a concrete proposal, which you and you could make. [[Pointing to both sides of the Chamber]] We're also talking about the collection. It is increasing the collection, but what we see, if we compare it with the data from the rest of the OECD states - data from the last report - we see that the Spanish state leads the fall in income across the OECD, that is, even wider than in the European Union. Of the thirty-two States that are part of the OECD, which are part of this study, the Spanish State makes the number thirty-two. Between 2007 and 2013, public revenue fell by 3% on average annually, when the OECD average is an increase of 0.1% on average annually. It's concrete data that doesn't allow the bells to fly. And if we go to public spending, the Spanish state is not very well located either; it is in the twenty-six out of thirty-two. There has been an increase of 0.6 % in the annual average of public expenditure in all these years, from 2007 to 2013, while the OECD average is 1.2 %. This shows one of the things that we have consistently denounced from this rostrum: the problem of the Spanish state is not of public expenditure, but of income, and in income there has been a failure, a total failure in this legislature and in the previous one. If we go to other elements like debt, it's unsustainable. The same OECD report says that it is most likely that the Spanish State will be able to reach 170% in debt and drastic measures will have to be taken. Indebtedness is the responsibility of the previous government, but it is also the responsibility of the former government, and it is not for me, Minister, to blame the Socialist Party for saying that debt is the government of Zapatero, because half of that debt was the product of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, with which you are ex-fair in the responsibility for the indebtedness and disaster of the Spanish State. It is concrete data that gives me great desolation in transmitting them, for I would like the reality to be another very different, but it is that we are also talking about this legislature, which seems to be fantastic. You speak of a tax system that is not efficient, that does not give coherent and fair answers to the reality of the Spanish State. Another fact is that of inequality. The Spanish State continues to break records of inequality. According to the indicator of Eurostat income quintile share ratio, which measures the difference in disposable income between 20% of the poorest and 20% of the richest population, the most unequal country in the European Union remains the Spanish State, with a ratio of 6.8 to others, such as Greece, which is the greatest disaster, which is best. Greece and Latvia are the next ones that are worse and are at 6.5 while the euro area average is 5. We are faced with another problem that is not being solved by the tax system, because one of the functions of the tax system is precisely to reduce inequality and is not achieving it. If we look at Gini's coefficient, which talks about the concentration of income among individuals, we see that in 2014 it has been fired. It is in 34.7, also surpassing Greece. We are worse than Greece in this matter too, which is in 34,5, and better than Latvia, which is the other companion, which is in 35.5. They are concrete evidence that the tax system is not working, so the world of politics has to make an effort of responsibility. You, the two major parties, have a special responsibility. It's funny that the spokesman for an independent political group comes here to tell you this. We have told them many times that we are independent and that we want to have our own state within the European Union, but we are concerned about Spain because we are in solidarity with the people of Spain who are suffering from their inefficiency, that of this government and that of the previous one. You are now talking about the tax reform that will be approved in the near future. Well, this is clearly irresponsible tax reform, which falls into totally irresponsible populism. Lowering taxes now is irresponsible when we have these structural deficits, these problems of inequality, of maintaining and strengthening the welfare state, when you continue to get your hands on the Social Security Reserve Fund. In these scenarios lowering taxes is a serious irresponsibility. In addition, it takes advantage of what is often called truth or statistical lies. He says that those with lower incomes will benefit 25% and it is true; what happens is that we are in the truth and statistical lie. Once again from this rostrum he has said that if we have a chicken between you and me, statistically it corresponds to half chicken to each one, but if I like the whole chicken you stay two candles and statistically it continues to correspond to half chicken. Well, with taxes, that's what happens. In fact, 25 % is going to benefit; 25 % of a thousand euros is 25 %, of course, but 25 % of a million euros is much higher. But it is that in the reform that you approve - if so, at least that is what has come out in the press -, you decrease a point the imposition, the type, to the lowest incomes and decrease 2 points to the highest incomes, with which you go against the principle of progressiveness. Instead of correcting it to more progressive, they are against it, and that now seems to me to be a serious irresponsibility, because it is time to make a solidarity effort on the part of those who have more towards those who have less and that lowering taxes now is a bad solution for their State. You will see each other, but it is time for you to stop messing with each other and start establishing consensus policies with all groups. You told the Socialist Party - I do not want to be a defender of the Socialist Party - that you have voted against what you have proposed. We too have voted against many things, but you have not made any consensus effort, and in those measures that may be important you must have sought consensus with everyone, or at least tried it, but there has not been an attempt to seek such consensus enough. I am not saying that they have not done so with our group, that we already know that they were panicking to talk and to agree with us, although in our country they have agreed; and if you do not ask the new Secretary of Social Action, former Mayor Maroto, who approved with our group important things for Vitoria, important for the citizens, in an area of responsibility on the part of the two groups, of the People's Party and of Bildu. But what you can do there I don't know why you can't do it in the whole state, not with us - which is the same too - but with the rest of the groups. That would be a step to start doing politics in another way and to respond to the needs of citizens in an exceptional situation. In the meantime, we continue to reaffirm: the more we see them and the more we contemplate the reality of this House, the more we are convinced that the sooner we can exercise sovereignty on the part of the citizens of Euskal Herria, the better it will be to be citizens within Europe, to build a better Europe among all and also to contribute in solidarity to your doing it better.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. Mr Calduch has the floor for the UPyD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been attending this debate and I have come to the conviction that both the People's Party, which is in the Government, and the Socialist Party have a patrimonialistic sense of the State, do not conceive the State as the organization of the coexistence of all the citizens of this country, and that ends up leading to a lack of awareness of the responsibility that is - as part of this legislative power - being such an important law as the General Tax Law, with society and with other State institutions. The result is that in this country - the minister has pointed out - there is a problem of tax fraud, but there is something else: that lack of conscience, of responsibility with the rest of society, is also at the basis of corruption, because in the end the defrauder is taking the first step to contribute to corruption. A long time ago, when the first tax reform was carried out in this country at the transition stage, by Minister Fernández Ordóñez, a slogan was established that said: "We are all finance, with which we tried to inculcate in a society that came from Francoism that the citizen had to take responsibility for paying his taxes. Interestingly, after a few years, when the fiscal reform was carried out by the socialist government, they made a slogan that said: We are almost all in finance, wanting to emphasize that the majority contributed but that there were defrauders. With this patrimonialist conception of the State, I am not surprised that the two parties alternately, since the two parties have been or are in the Government, have conceived the Tax Agency as a financing tool of the Government in turn, and not an institution responsible for obtaining the financial resources that are needed to meet the public services and the basic policies that society demands and that are channelled through the State. This has led to a number of consequences; first, the most important and primary is that there are major contributors and secondary contributors. One might think that the main contributors are the ones who win the most. No, the main contributors are the workers on behalf of others - especially, within that group, the civil servants - they are the pensioners, they are the renters. Those are the main contributors. Why? Because that's where the state's arks really come from. Then there are secondary taxpayers, who are the big fortunes, the big companies, those collectives that can be paid endless resources, litigation and delays and who also receive tax amnesties. Another consequence of this interpretation that the Tax Agency is a financing tool of the government in charge is that, if there is to be an increase in revenue to meet an increase in expenditure, to whom is the tax burden increased? To the main contributors; not to the richest, not to those who have more income, but to the main ones, where is the fundamental mass of this collection. On the other hand, it diminishes, if the fraud of secondary taxpayers is not silenced. This ends up systematically eroding the trust of the average citizen in the Tax Agency, which ends up seeing the payment of taxes not as a contribution to society as a whole, but as an erosion of their income. This does not contribute to the reduction of tax fraud, let alone the disappearance of the submerged economy, that economy which everyone estimates, although it is always said that it is about 20% or 25% by definition - if it is submerged, it cannot be more than an estimate - of gross domestic product. Why have I done all these thoughts? Because if there is any parliamentary group that already defended in the previous parliamentary term that tax fraud had to be pursued - the previous parliamentary term, in which you were not in the government, but the PSOE, but also defends it in this one, in which you are in the government and not in the opposition - it was ours; we were the first ones to quantify in more than 60 billion euros that tax fraud. Of course, our parliamentary representative was disqualified from saying that it was a figure that had been invented. This very afternoon, Minister, you have publicly estimated around EUR 70 billion in tax fraud in this country. Therefore, we have authorities, authority, to say here publicly that the persecution of tax fraud is a priority objective of this Spanish State if it really wants to meet the needs and services that its citizens require. However, tax fraud cannot be prosecuted in any way and at any cost. First, tax fraud cannot be prosecuted with a bill that facilitates the distortion of market unity and harms, or at least opens the way for it to harm, either by the autonomous communities or by the central administration itself, certain sectors or economic activities by allowing the introduction of different taxes or tax charges, depending on the autonomous communities, because that disrupts market unity. Nor can the prosecution of tax fraud be carried out at the expense of making it difficult to compensate for the tax debts of the debtors, of the citizens, with whom the administration has commercial debts. You in this law put obstacles to this kind of compensation; I do not say that you totally prevent it, you make it enormously difficult. Nor can it be expected that the prosecution of tax fraud will be affected by the legal security of citizens, because that is a basic constitutional principle. This bill affects legal certainty, giving priority to the every oversight and collection authority of the Tax Agency when it manipulates the principle of prescription and the time limits for the application of prescriptions. Yes, that formula of: it is prescribed but if there is a liability, a related debt, you can open the file again, as if the prescription did not have its rules. Or, for example, it affects the legal security of citizens when the intention is to implement retroactively the legal reform itself that is brought to us. We are told: No, but if there is something that when the law was passed was already resolved but could be applied at that time, it retreats. Or where the rectification of declarations is prevented by means of supplementary declarations. Why? If it's all about the information you have, it'll make it easier for you to collect. If the taxpayer himself realizes that a statement he has made is incomplete in the data, why will he not be able to rectify it? Or, for example, when it is difficult - which does not prevent - the citizen's right to obtain a response to a consultation with the Tax Agency. Tax fraud not only undermines the State's economic resources to meet the needs of society; it is also, and above all - this has to do with the organic bill - a direct attack on the collective coexistence order of our country. It is a question of basic constitutional principles and for that reason, together with the economic sanction and in its criminal case, the offences of tax fraud that are sanctioned by the courts must entail a social reprimand that can only be obtained if a dissemination of the fraudsters has been obtained, of course. Our group supports this approach, but for the same reason we are against the introduction of a point 3 in the organic law, which states: if the defrauder who, with a judgement, is declared a delinquent pays the debt and the corresponding sanction will not be included in the list of defrauders. That is to contribute to the impunity of the defrauder against social punishment, since criminal impunity does not exist. Our group does not want that, but we are also not for the work of continuing with a treatment such as that proposed in its amendment to the whole of the Socialist Group, which says, "No matter what, that you pay your debt - once there has been a sentence before it is firm - will continue to appear as a defrauder." So what we're doing is encouraging you not to pay the debt. I have been disappointed, but if you are going to treat me with the same social sanction - and since criminally, if there is a crime, you have the corresponding penalty - what I am going to take the money for and bring it. That is why we have made an amendment, namely that fraudsters should indeed be publicised, but that it should be made clear in this publicity - made on their own initiative by the secretaries of the judicial bodies - who has paid their debts to society and who has not done so. Thus, those who comply will not have the social reproach, will be recognized as defrauding, but not with the social reproach of continuing to maintain, at the expense of society, their economic resources at good cost. It is reasonable, it is to treat the defrauder according to his reality, who was caught in the fraud and has been penalized criminally, but returns the money and the fine or whatever it corresponds to him, must appear on that same list as a defrauder, but also as a contributor to the debt he had, and whoever does not do so will continue with the social reprobation. I am convinced that this amendment, which seems quite sensible and reasonable, will receive the support of the two majority parliamentary groups in the House. If not, you would be demonstrating that my starting point in this approach is correct, namely that you interpret the state in a heritage form. I am convinced that you will be wise and correct that article of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mr Coscubiela has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u28	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Montoro, the truth is that today you have surpassed yourself, and you see that it is difficult, but you get it every time you climb up here. If I had now used the same frivolity with which you intervened today, I would tell you, for example, that you are right, that Greece is not Spain, that in Greece the Minister of Finance goes on motorcycles and in Spain the Minister of Finance sells motorcycles, motorcycles without wheels and without handles, because that is what you have done today, sell a motorcycle. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] But as I am a little more serious than you, I will tell you - as you have used this debate in terms of taking advantage of the drama that Greek citizens are experiencing - that you are also right about one thing: Greece is not Spain. Rather, the Greek Government is not the Spanish Government. That would require the government to have at least 10% of the dignity that the Greek government has shown with its people. [[Applauds]] That's a big difference today. There is something else that distinguishes not the peoples, but the governments, for example, in Spain there is a minister who says that referendums are burdened by the devil; I suppose that coincidentally with those who thought that submitting a reform of article 135 of the Constitution to a referendum was a democratic excess. That's another difference. We already know that you do not like the behaviour of the Greek Government, we already know that you would have preferred that the Greek Government had been defeated by the troika, that you prefer your New Democracy correspondents, a government - I would like to remind you - that falsified public accounts with the help of Goldman Sachs, whose vice president was Mario Draghi and who now says that he feels disappointed by the disloyal behaviour of the Greek Government. What things life has and what a different way to treat behaviors! There is another thing that is different, even the Greek conservatives resign, a verb that you certainly don't know. The situation in Greece is certainly not enviable, and I am not going to use the drama of the Greek people to have a referendum here with you, but let me say one thing, to you - to the Government and to the Spanish People's Party - if you were pending and really moved by the interests of this country's citizens and not by their electoral interests, you would be interested in facilitating the agreement, you would be interested in making it easier for the Greek Government and people to reach a balanced agreement, among other things, not just for the Greek people, but because a debt restructuring agreement for Greece would also serve to address a more balanced agreement on how the Spanish State repays its debts. What cannot be - and you deliberately ignore it - is that your Government's decisions are going to condemn future generations of Spaniards to be working a good part of their eight, ten or twelve hours a day to repay the debt you have caused to save this country's financial system. [[Applauds]] And if we can restructure that, if we can restructure it, much better. It would be good, Mr Montoro, not to breastfeed in relation to the state of this country's public finances, not to breastfeed, because, after the general elections, the harsh reality of the liquidation of the 2015 budget and the 2016 budget will come, not the one that you are going to present as an electoral pamphlet, but the one that will really have to run during 2016. And it is not to get rid of having closed 2014 with a public deficit of 5.5% of the gross domestic product, or having brought the public debt of this country to almost 100% of the gross domestic product. It is not to draw your heart that you are the Minister of Finance of a Government that has kept 480,000 persons dependent on the right to benefit and unable to receive it because of lack of resources; or that you are the Minister of a Government that keeps 2 million people unemployed without any kind of benefit, and those who receive it, almost half, only the welfare benefit of 426 euros; and that is also because of lack of resources and because you have decided to save on unemployment benefits. That is the reality that you do not count, but that the citizens of this country live. In that context, if you present yourself here with a proposal to advance a deduction at source - which we will see later on when the liquidation comes out in 2016 - in that context of insufficient public resources to carry out those essential social policies - and I have just cited two - you should tell us where you intend to get tax resources to satisfy the rights of dependent people without benefits or the unemployed without subsidies, because, otherwise, you become a first-tier demagogue at the expense of the rights of the people and at the expense of the dignity of this people. That is why, Mr Montoro, you are the minister of a government that has managed to increase significantly the social inequality, that has managed to bring this country to levels of poverty, even child poverty, unknown for a long time, and you only have to walk on the street to see them. That is, without trying to compare anything with Greece, you should be more cautious when it comes to showing off your tax and tax policies. Although some of them get a little easy. I understand that you are delighted to have a two and a quarter hour debate with the Socialist Party, I understand that, because I, who have defended the social policy of the Socialist Party at times in health and education, with which I feel very identified in some respects, including civil rights, I know that since 1993 fiscal policy in this country has been quite indistinct. This golden triplet of fiscal policy in this country Solbes-Rato-Solbes has been quite indistinct, for example, when Solbes launched the double scale of income tax in relation to income tax on labour or income tax on capital. Or when here, with the invaluable cooperation always, always, of Convergence i Unió - it is the same whether it is Convergence or whether it is Union, always together - they have addressed a subject of the tax of companies that, with the excuse of the small and medium-sized company, have turned the tax on companies into a sort of colander, by which the big companies, even the banks, have come to have real rates of 5%, through not only the exploitation of the crisis, but all those exemptions and bonuses that have been raised, that you have not solved, especially the most important ones, that have to do with transnationals and that have to do with double taxation, because there continues to be a serious problem of our tax system. Regrettably, you have lost the opportunity to have a good debate. You should have taken advantage of the opportunity that only one parliamentary group, the Socialist Group, has tabled an amendment in its entirety and that I think should have meant something for you. Possibly you had the opportunity to make a serious debate about what things of these two bills you present we can agree with and with which not, but, of course, the scorpion pulls you bite, and you have not been able to avoid it. It has not been possible to avoid being here two and a quarter hours in a Tongo debate without a doubt, because in the background you have been discussing who has done more pro-cyclical politics by warming the economy, who has relied more on a fiscal policy fed on the subject of the touch, of real estate speculation, not addressing the underlying problems. In any case, I will try to take advantage of the amount of time I have left to raise the substantive issues in relation to your two bills. From the outset, the first thing to note is that tax management and transparency have not been a priority of your Government and the proof of that is that you have waited at the end, at the discount period of this legislature, to present this bill, even though you said in the debate on the state of the nation that tax reform was a priority. They have waited until the end to address things that existed as a problem already at the beginning of that legislature. By their deeds you will know them. You have considered these structural reforms, such as labour reform, which have made jobs precarious, reduced wages and led to collective bargaining. In the fiscal field, they have considered the deduction of social expenditure and an increase in income by increasing direct and indirect taxes, without, of course, touching on those aspects that fundamentally affect large assets and large capital. They have not even had the gesture of addressing in this legislature some measures to put an end to the fraudulent use of the figure of the Sicav and its tax advantages that you already know to be a mechanism by which certain families and fortunes in this country are able to circumvent their tax obligations. This is happening in a country that has the big problem - I dare say as the most important problem that this country has - of a deep insufficiency in its tax system, and you know it: 8% of GDP less than the EU average. That is 80 billion less income each year than if we entered the European Union's average. Of course that is not resolved in a fold, but, at the very least, it must be addressed. You have not had that priority for as long as you say otherwise, as shown by the fact that these bills have submitted them at the end of this legislature. This bill not only comes late, but comes with some inadequacies. Anyway, let me tell you that I am going to see some coincidences with this bill so that you, the People's Group, cannot use the easy disqualification that you are against everyone, but I am also going to certainly address the big discrepancies that have to do with what you call transparency and that is all but that and especially not in relation to late and tax fraudsters. Important and significant coincidences. We believe that it is significant and that it is appropriate for the Tax Agency to have at its disposal management mechanisms to prevent what is currently leading to major elements of tax avoidance, that is, what is not fraud, but what is tax avoidance, taking advantage of interpretative problems and making clear use of how large corporations and large companies have instruments at their service to prevent tax payments. Let me tell you that the fight against these forms of circumvention goes, among other things, to the end of legislative overproduction. What makes it easier for these large companies, which have large offices behind them, to use tax avoidance is to be constantly changing the legislation and opening up loopholes for them to do so. Therefore, one mechanism is: you make more politics and less laws. We also have some coincidence in relation to the treatment of limitation periods. Undoubtedly, in some cases, the statute of limitations must be extended to prevent the diversion strategies of large corporations, large taxpayers, from ending up in impunity, but let me tell you that this cannot be done against the legal certainty of all taxpayers. I suggest an alternative. The way to make efficiency compatible in the pursuit of fraud with tax avoidance without violating the rights of all taxpayers is not, for example, by extending in a general way the limitation periods that generate legal uncertainty, but by increasing the technical and human resources of the Tax Agency primarily directed at large fraudsters. That's what you don't do, that's what you don't intervene in. That is what you have had some important conflict with the tax agency professionals, who have come to denounce that you are not interested in pursuing that area of fraud and, on the other hand, you are devoting an important part of all your resources to pursuing small fraud. Fraud is always fraud, especially in moral and ethical terms, but from the social perspective and from the income perspective the important thing is to go to the large fraud bags of big corporations. These coincidences, which you could have taken advantage of if you had not tried to make a Tongo debate, we will raise our deep discrepancy with the treatment you make of the topic of advertising in the case of lateness and taxpayers convicted of final convictions in tax offences. I will tell you that we do not share some aspects of the reports of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary. We do not share the defense in excess of the right to privacy of taxpayers vis-à-vis the Treasury. Right to privacy yes, but not to the point of ending the defense of the general interests that the Public Treasury can represent. It is curious how the General Council of the Judiciary is concerned about the privacy of taxpayers and, instead, does not care about the privacy of those affected by the law gag. What a criterion! It is noted that the class component and ideological bias is very present in the General Council of the Judiciary. In that regard, let me tell you what some other speakers have already said to you. What you do in these two bills is try to make you see that you want to address a problem, but you don't; worse still, you do it wrong, because even from that perspective you give a class treatment to the late and tax fraudster. You punish - if I may say so, although that is not the expression - tax fraudsters on condition that they are not rich enough and millionaires enough to be able to pay when they are discovered and convicted of debts and from then on save advertising. That's not the way. The way is to deal clearly, as we have already raised, with transparency in this regard. Let me tell you that it is a barbarity that this country treats the late between private companies better than the late with the Public Treasury. We have never understood how there can be a country that has legislation whereby lateness with a bank can be placed in the middle of the public square so that banks and everyone who is in commercial traffic can come to know who is late with a bank - although perhaps that lateness is a consequence of debts acquired by other companies or by public administrations - and, instead, protects the lateness with public administrations. In that sense, his project seems to us not only insufficient, but once again absolutely biased from the class perspective.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u29	Your Honor, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u30	I'm done. Those who can pay may be allowed the luxury of trying to defraud, because when they discover and condemn them the publicity of such acts is saved. In short, Mr Montoro, if you want to discuss these bills, we will have an opportunity to do so; among other things, by raising elements of publicity that are not just the publication in the Official State Gazette, but that is advertising accessible to all citizens so that social disapproval is genuinely in relation to those who repeatedly fail to fulfil their commitments to society as a whole. Finally, do not display transparency, because if something is not this government, it is transparent. You are the minister who continues to refuse to give the data on the tax amnesty. He is the most opaque finance minister who has had the history of this country. Leave Greece alone. Worry about the problems of the Spaniards and don't take so much breast, because perhaps at some point someone has to remind you of the Montoro heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Picó has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u32	The Democratic Union of Catalonia assumes the bills that we are debating today since the need to realize three primary and priority objective principles. The first is to apply the principle of legal certainty in tax procedures. In the various speeches that we have had in recent months, my group has shown the need to respect legal certainty in all cases. Does anyone doubt that the principle of legal certainty is more than necessary in tax matters? I don't think so. Second objective principle on the part of our group, to preserve the rights of the taxpayer. The relationship between the tax administration and the taxpayer citizen often does not correspond to the preservation of the taxpayer's rights. The draft laws being dealt with will have a special impact on this drafting and must therefore always respond to respect for the rights of the taxpayer. And, third and last principle, reduce litigation in the tax system. We need to reduce the litigation between the tax administration and taxpayers, a tax system that generates a large number of conflicts that end up before administrative courts, first, and contentious-administrative, then it is not a good system. Obtaining a resolution represents at least two or three years of waiting, a heavy workload for the courts and disproportionate costs for taxpayers. I would like to recall that a memory of the General Council of the Judiciary - I don't remember what year - talked about that in the Supreme Court's Dispute-Administrative Chamber there were 6 billion euros in tax disputes, it's a lot that shouldn't be, much less. These are the objectives that we set ourselves in the parliamentary process of both bills: one, to apply the principle of legal certainty; two, to preserve the rights of the taxpayer; and three, to reduce litigation in the tax system, and especially in relation to the amendment of the General Tax Act because it has a much broader sense of the relationship between the tax administration and the citizen. The amendments to the whole made by the Socialist Group affect aspects that we could share to a greater or lesser extent in some cases, but not in others. I'll quote three. For example, in relation to the disclosure of taxpayer data that received the tax amnesty. Mr. Saura, last week we had the opportunity to discuss the bill you made. On this issue, you know very well that we consider it appropriate that there is a debate on the origin of the publication of the data of those taxpayers who accept tax regularisation or commit tax fraud as a deterrent to future regularisations, that is to say, bearing in mind that the transfer of data to third parties must be carried out in accordance with the tax principle of data reservation and justifying both the reason, the purpose and the addressee of such transfer. For example, we could also agree on the need to quantify the new regulation on unlimited power of the Tax Administration introduced by the bill granting powers to the Tax Administration in a way, we believe, disproportionate, to the detriment of the taxpayer who sees his capacity to appeal administrative acts impaired, as well as that this unlimited granting of powers entails great legal uncertainty. We also recognize the lack of ambition in the adoption of measures against tax fraud adopted, or not adopted, with this bill. There is little ambition in the fight against tax fraud and the fight against the submerged economy. I would like to recall that it was my group that has claimed and continues to demand the need to have a map of the economy submerged in Spain and the adoption of measures to combat it. Every time we have raised this issue, we have met with the refusal of the People's Parliamentary Group. I could quote other things. The need to quantify the regulation of the conflict in the application of the tax rule or in the imprescriptibility of the tax administration's verification and inspection proceedings. With regard to the draft Organic Law, which regulates the access and publicity of certain information contained in the rulings on tax fraud, we discuss in this procedure one of the measures most announced by the Government and, above all, by the Minister of Finance and Public Administrations throughout this legislature. Now, in the final leg of the legislature, the Government adopts the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law on the Judiciary with the inclusion of a new article, article 235 bis. Now we have the opportunity to express ourselves on the basis of an articulated text. Our parliamentary group appreciates the purpose of the bill on the basis, first of all, of the content of the bill amending the General Tax Law and in view of its content, because there should be no worse condition for tax debtors who will be included in annual lists by the Public Treasury with respect to tax debtors convicted by a final judgement. Treatment should be given differently from case to case. Secondly, the guarantee for the protection of the right to data protection that public access is provided by the publication of an extract from the judgement of the conviction containing only the data allowing the identification of the proceedings of the convicted person and of the civil servant, the offence for which he was convicted, as well as the penalty and the amount of liability imposed. And, thirdly, for the deterrent effects that the purpose of the bill must have on tax evasion. I believe that we all share the view that this should be the real object of the initiative. Therefore, the general positioning of the proposed initiative, on the basis of those principles that I have outlined to you, we believe is positive. Entering the letter of the bill, my group has some comments to make. The amendment to the whole of the Socialist Group, of which we can share some aspects, again points more to partial concepts of the proposal than to the substance of the subject matter of the bill, Mr Saura. Finally, on some of the partial aspects of your amendment as a whole, my group believes that there are concepts that need to be spelled out and modified in the parliamentary procedure. For example, the domestic law should provide that it is the judge who, depending on the circumstances and the aggravating or mitigating circumstances assessed in each particular case, decides whether or not to publish the particulars of the judgment, since this amendment does not lose the purpose of exemplifying the publicity, making an analogy to what prevents the regulation of the procedure of the European Court. Another aspect that we should also mention is the cancellation of criminal records, which is not contained in the bill. The publication of sentences cannot frustrate the re-education and social reintegration of the offender provided for in article 25 of the Constitution, so that, if they are to be adopted as punishment, as the draft law appears to be doing, the necessary measures should be put in place to ensure that, once the criminal record has been cancelled, the sentencing data are also eliminated. Finally, according to the report of the Prosecutor's Council of the Attorney-General's Office of the State of the statement of reasons for the present draft, it is concluded that the purpose pursued in relation to the disclosure of certain information on convictions in tax matters fully coincides with the purpose of the general preventive sentence. We must therefore consider the possibility - and we will discuss it, hopefully, with an amendment that we will table - of including it as a penalty in the Penal Code. Therefore, we believe that some prevention should be carried out in the current system of penalties on the assumption of the publication of personal data contained in judgements of final convictions. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I must say to you that there are relevant aspects of these draft laws that must be amended during the parliamentary process, and that we note points that are consistent with the arguments put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but the Members of the European Democratic Union of Catalonia will abstain, believing that it is necessary to continue with the legislative process of these draft laws, to which we will submit the relevant amendments in order to preserve, as I said, the rights of the taxpayer, reduce litigation and provide greater legal certainty for tax procedures. Mr Saura, you have described your amendment as an amendment to the entire economic policy of the Government. I believe that two amendments have been tabled in their entirety, one by Mr Saura and the other by Mr Saura. Both have tabled amendments in their entirety and both have been criticized for their economic actions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, when in 2008 Convergence i Unió warned of the economic situation of serious crises that we were living in, you did not assume the situation and dedicated yourselves to giving cheques that did not serve any purpose. And Minister, do you remember that in May 2012 they refused to appeal responsibility?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u33	Mr. Picó, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u34	I'm done, Madam President. They refused to appeal to liability for the current bankruptcy situation while CiU assumed it. Deaf ears on the left bench, deaf ears on the right bench. That is the ability that both have shown to listen not only today, but also throughout the legislature and to listen to other political formations that we have expressed here. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u35	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the same group, Mrs Riera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the debate on the whole of this bill, to which the Parliamentary Group on Convergence i Unió did not present an amendment to the whole, the Convergence Democrática de Catalunya believes that it is a draft that deserves not only a very deep debate, but also a thorough review by the government. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to fight tax fraud, something that we have always defended and with which we are extremely committed, and another is the treatment given by this law to the taxpayer who pays and seeks to comply with his tax obligations. Before I enter into the content of the bill, allow me to briefly reflect on the fight against tax fraud and the tax system. Firstly, there is a high submerged economy in Spain and it would be appropriate for the INE and the Tax Agency to undertake to draw up an annual estimate, as it would help raise awareness around the world about the drama of the submerged economy and the consequent tax fraud, while allowing us to have a clear knowledge of the efficiency or otherwise of tax policy strategies. My parliamentary group has proposed this on several occasions since Convergence i Unió and we believe that the Government should activate it, as my colleague Antonio Picó has also claimed. Secondly, in relation to the tax system, one thing is to combat tax fraud with the help of the instruments at the disposal of the State and another to articulate a tax system that penalizes taxpayers who declare, without the taxpayer on foot having a rational capacity to self-defence. This bill in too many cases gives the Administration a capacity to act arbitrarily against the taxpayer, thus affecting its rights. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have moved from the Taxpayer's Statute, which we support at the outset and to which we supported, to the Tax Administration's Statute, and I will explain myself. In February 1998, during the first legislature of the People's Party, this House passed the Taxpayer's Statute Act and was good news as it provided information to taxpayers; it offered us rights and guarantees and represented a breach of the inertia of the existing tax system. But, unfortunately, what at the time was a step in the right direction, in subsequent reforms of the tax procedures the State itself, with socialist governments and the People's Party, has amended it. In each reform, the rights of the taxpayer have become smaller and the ability of the Administration to consider itself indisputable has increased. Finally, this bill comes which, contrary to the Taxpayer's Statute, we could call it the Tax Administration's Statute. With it it seems that the information only belongs to the Administration, the rights are for the Administration, the interpretations are the power of the Administration and even the judges are subject to what the Administration determines. Today, the Government is presenting to us a bill that articulates a powerful tax system of a coercive, discretionary and untransparent nature in the service of the State, since the information in its hands does not have it by the taxpayer for its defence. A powerful tax system at the service of the administrative machinery that moves it and accompanied by complex judicial mechanisms that make it very difficult to defend their rights to small taxpayers, small and medium-sized enterprises and even to a multitude of small professional offices that help individuals and SMEs to make their statements to the Public Finance Agency. And we have examples in the drafting of the articles of this bill that demonstrate this. I do not want to finish my speech on this first draft law amending the General Tax Act without also announcing an amendment that my group is going to table on a tremendously unfair subject. The aim is to prevent the emergency aid and subsidies given by municipalities to people without resources from being embargoed and seized by the Treasury. It is an absurdity and an injustice that is urgent, in our view, to resolve and the process of this bill is an appropriate procedure to correct it. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for Convergence and despite not sharing the full arguments of the amendment as a whole presented by the Socialist Group, we will give you our support; although we disagree with many of your arguments, we will support it because we believe that this bill deserves a thorough debate and revision. And we strongly and forcefully insist from the Convergence Democrática de Catalunya on our commitment to the fight against tax fraud, to the defence of the taxpayer who fulfils and to have rational capacity and transparent and effective mechanisms of self-defence, and we also insist on the need for more transparency in tax information, understanding that tax fraud is not fought with opacity. With regard to the second draft organic law - Madam President, I am finishing - which regulates the access and publicity of certain information contained in the rulings on tax fraud, since Convergence Democrática de Catalunya we share the position and the considerations that have been put forward by my colleague and Member Antonio Picó, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. I do not want to finish my speech - and, Mr Montoro, with great respect but also with great force - without referring to your last speech regarding May 2010. Our parliamentary group acted with great responsibility and generosity, without putting partisan positions above but the medium- and long-term vision...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u37	Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u38	... and above all the responsibility we had and what we were playing at that time, and acting above party and, above all, short-term positions, something you did not do, Minister, something you did not do.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u39	Mrs. Riera, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u40	I'm done, Madam President. They won more short-term positions, tactics and partisans, and if we had acted in this way, the consequences for society and the economy would have been serious, as they were for other countries. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. Finally, Mr López-Amor has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the immense honour of representing the People's Parliamentary Group in the debate on the whole of the partial amendment of the General Tax Act. Twelve years ago, on 8 July, I came up to this same rostrum and today, on 7 July, San Fermín, I am doing it again to defend in this House a draft partial amendment also of the General Tax Law. It replaced the law of twelve years ago to the 1963 Act, which, by the way, was magnificent, and which, despite its briefness, introduced tax law, leaving for ever expressions that have been consolidated over time, such as the taxable act. This 1963 Act must be framed within the set of liberal laws enacted in our country as a result of the Stabilization Plan of 1959. In 2003, a massive tax system, the existence of telematic means and the obligation to provide the taxpayer with the rights that the Constitution generally establishes as fundamental made this law necessary; in addition, it incorporated Law 25/1995 on Offences and Penalties and Law 1/1998, approving the Statute of the taxpayer and still in force today. Now, without doubt, the Government has decided to make an amendment through a single article divided into 67 paragraphs. Why am I saying the right thing? For, simply, because it maintains its codifying character and the continuous adaptation of the tax rule, closing also the cycle of laws that have been forming the legislative corpus in tax matters that has a specific purpose: the fight against tax fraud. The project before us has this codifying character and regulates the legal tax relations between the Administration and the taxpayers, providing them with greater security and increasing the effectiveness of administrative action in the application of taxes. It is therefore a good thing for the Government. Entering fully into the articulation of the project, in its teleological spirit, we must highlight some new developments that have attracted attention and that aim to make article 31 of the Spanish Constitution possible and effective. This constitutional principle is made effective by combating tax fraud, and there is no doubt that if this project reduces conflictivity, it will increase the effectiveness of tax enforcement. Therefore, we regulate for the first time the advertising of tax data, which is intertwined with the publication of sentences for tax offences. I will first deal with the publication of sentences for a fiscal offence requiring the addition of a new article 235.3 or in the Organic Judiciary Act and the amendment of article 160 of the Criminal Procedure Act. It enables this reform to know the identity of those who cause greater damage to the public finances, with the exception of the secrecy of the data with tax significance of article 95 of the General Tax Act. The public nature of the judgment derives from the public nature of the judicial proceedings, unlike taxation, in which the principle of confidentiality is key. This regulation is more important, if possible, and justifies it because tax offences have consequences outside the process itself; for example, in public procurement, in subsidies, in the disciplinary regime of financial institutions, etc. It says the Supreme Court that advertising may be of a distressing or tax nature and therefore the bill is respectful of its regulation, always relying on the public interest, and its regulation by organic law becomes necessary by adding an article to a law of that nature. This respect for which he mentioned is evident in the scope of the publicity of judgements, in respect of honour, privacy and data protection, bearing in mind that individual rights are not absolute either. This is understood by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union, which states that the transfer of data requires a legal provision. This publication of data - says the Constitutional Court - refers to crimes assessed and always against the Public Treasury, maintaining the privacy of others involved in the process that have not been convicted and the firmness of the judgment, that is, that it is indefensible legally. The conflict between individual rights and general interests prevails in favour of the latter, although it is fair to acknowledge that there are conflicting views, especially when they have constitutional recognition. This change is also reflected in the transitional regime, which provides for an average retroactivity, since it is not punitive and therefore does not apply to article 9.3 of the Constitution. I conclude this paragraph by saying, first, that this measure implies, according to the Supreme Court, a distressing measure, but it does not have a sanctioning nature but an autonomous basis: the public interest; second, that there are precedents in other areas, such as the Competition Law - rights of third parties that may be affected - or the Criminal Law - for example, with the publication of judgments on slander and insults; third, that its regulation is made by organic law because it is exceptional the regulation of the advertising of the judgment and also to comply with the Organic Law on Data Protection. With regard to the disclosure of the list of debtors, the principle of the reservation of law provided for in article 95 of the General Tax Act is maintained and only when the amount of fees and penalties - EUR 1 million - is exceeded and the period of voluntary admission has not been paid, can this data be published. This measure has been used in many countries such as the United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Australia, and so on, and needs to be regulated less openly, as it establishes a kind of sanction for taxpayers who, having recognised their debt, cannot face it on a voluntary basis. It is true that there is an asymmetrical treatment with late public administrations which have often been the cause of the default of those same taxpayers. The Supreme Court also proclaims the non-punishable nature of the measure only to be overcome by the autonomous nature of the information function, based on public transparency and the fight against tax fraud. Article 18.4 of the Constitution enshrines data protection and makes it a fundamental right. This is what the bill does, which has no more purpose than to prevent situations of serious non-compliance with tax obligations. Another novelty that I believe has a truly progressive character is the new regulation of the conflict of application of the rule. It was introduced for the first time in the 2003 Act as a natural development of the tax fraud regulations contained in the former General Tax Act in its article 24.2. The 2003 Act identified what the doctrine recognizes as an economy of choice, i.e., notoriously artificial or improper acts that seek only a tax advantage or savings. Those tax advantages were then intended to be eliminated but, yes, without penalty and with settlement of interest on delay. Now the novelty is the imposition of sanctions provided for in articles 15.3 and 4, provided that there has been a conflict in the application of the rule and where there is a pre-existing and public administrative criterion. It has gone from a subjective consideration - obtaining a result prohibited by the legal order - to an objective one. The aim is nothing but to avoid tax evasion, not evasion or concealment. An example of this is already in the corporate tax merger regime, which is rejected provided it has no economic basis and therefore cannot be granted tax benefits. The declaration of conflict requires a favourable report from an advisory commission established for that purpose in article 159 of the Act. Finally, I will talk about the other paragraph which I think is most important, because if we could not be long, it is the prescription and the right to check that the tax administration has. As you all know, section 66 of the Act generally regulates tax prescriptions, establishing a four-year period, which is the period for the Administration to determine and liquidate the tax debt. This assertion is somehow distorted in the current draft when it is said that the right of the Administration to initiate the procedure for the verification of the compensated or outstanding bases or quotas or deductions applied or outstanding shall be prescribed at 10 years. The statute of limitations is an institute that it is for the legislator to determine its regime, its material limits. In that connection, the legislator, the pre-legislator and we are carrying out a bill setting out a maximum period of ten years and the need for the verification to necessarily have effects in unprescribed exercises. The Council of State is of the opinion that this extension of the statute of limitations for these specific cases is perfectly constitutional and qualifies the power of the Administration to verify and investigate as a power and those - the powers of the Administration - are imprescriptible. I am now going to go directly, so as not to extend further, into the only amendment to the whole that has been tabled by the Socialist Group. Firstly, it gives me reason to believe that there are many groups in this House that if they have not tabled a full amendment - and they have already left it in this rostrum - it is because they think that this bill has truly positive aspects and that in the period of parliamentary procedure it can be substantially enriched by the presentation of the appropriate amendments. Even up to The Plural Left has seen positive aspects throughout the bill presented. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment which repeats all that it has said throughout the parliamentary term. We still don't know at this point what the Socialist Party's tax policy is, we don't know if it wants to raise taxes, reduce the deficit or if it wants more public spending like PlanE, the last one they did when they were in government. However, the reiteration of views on tax fraud really amazes us because after 70 interventions in this House, Mr Saura forgets that the extraordinary regularisation that this government carried out was absolutely transparent and identified with names and surnames each of the taxpayers it regularized, in the face of the fiscal opacity of the socialist fiscal amnesties carried out by Mr Boyer in 1984 and by Mr Solchaga in 1991. This extraordinary regularization has enabled more than 100 billion euros deposited abroad, corresponding to more than 140,000 taxpayers. It was approved in this House, with total transparency and assuming the public cost, not like the socialist government that, through an office located in the Tax Agency, invited to regulate voluntarily those characters who were on the Falciani list. Therefore, Mr.Saura, you must not always be preaching the same thing, because the repetition bores and, moreover, it is absolutely false everything you say. The reports of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State - which cites the Socialist Group's amendment with reference to the exact pages - are not enough reason to withdraw the bill. The Socialist Party says that there is a lack of professional means in the Tax Agency, but if there is any body within the Administration that has material, technological and personal means and that has increased the number of people accessing the Public Service more, it is the Tax Agency. At this time, the Tax Agency has a staff of almost 27,000. It is very important to know that the technological means available to the Tax Agency are so large that I can say that they are the most advanced in this country. The results are there and it is that it has never been collected again in the fight against tax fraud, 12.3 billion in 2014 and more than 40 billion since the beginning of the legislature. Finally, you call for concrete measures to be included against tax evasion. The regulation of the concept of application of the standard is truly clear in this respect. Other aspects of the law go in the same direction because the whole law has a spirit, has a ratio legis, which is to fight tax fraud and make it possible for large fraudsters, large taxpayers never to rely on better advice or unclear law or mechanisms that can delay the enforcement and settlement of taxes. We must reject - and my group is going to do so - the whole amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. I encourage the other parliamentary groups to bring their ideas and any amendments they deem appropriate, with respect not only to the taxpayer, but also to the public administration, into the parliamentary process of this law. In the end, all these measures have an important interest. You will not say that this government has done nothing to combat tax fraud, because, in addition to what it has done in Spain, it is fighting in international fora, both in the OECD and in the European Union, clearly in favour of a harmonised tax legislation - in particular company tax - that allows such tax avoidance and transfer of tax bases from one country to another depending on the tax situation to cease to exist. I therefore congratulate the Minister here on this bill, which I hope will be greatly enriched in its parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u43	Thank you, Mr. Lopez-Amor. By the same group, Mrs. Madrazo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking very briefly, since my colleague Fernando López-Amor has already defended our position on this bill with great brilliance, to make it clear in the first place, and to make it clear in the 'Diary of Sessions', that the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, has only made the finding of a truth that all the citizens have been able to see in these last municipal elections, and that is that the Socialist Party where it can evict the People's Party, even if it has to deal with radical political forces, does so without doubt. He said nothing but the truth. They have the entire legislature installed - the Minister of Finance has also said - in the non-permanent. They have made absolutely no contribution to the improvement, to the progress, to the justice and to the fairness of our tax system, nor to any contribution to the fight against fraud, and with the introduction of this amendment of the whole again you see the plumber, Socialists. They are seen as the plumber because I believe that the bill has not been read, or they do not know very well what the purpose is, because with this bill we are going to publish in the Official Gazette of the State the final convictions for tax fraud and that makes us move forward in solvency, justice and fairness of our tax system on two fronts: first, we move forward in transparency because from the People's Party, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we think that society has the right to know who are the people who do not comply with society, who do not pay their taxes and who do not comply with their tax obligations; but we also move forward with this bill in another direction, and it is encouraging the voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations, because that must be the ultimate goal of a tax system: to strengthen the civic-tributory awareness of all Spaniards and those who do not pay their taxes know that their data will be available to the whole society so that the whole society knows why they do not comply with that duty of solidarity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group we understand that this bill constitutes the golden brooch to a legislature that advances with giant steps, a legislature that we dare to call brilliant in the fight against fraud. The legislature began by adopting a draft law on the prevention and control of fraud containing measures that had never been covered by tax legislation and that had been very effective, followed by the amendment of the Criminal Code to toughen the penalties for tax offences, and in the end, this Government is reaping the fruits of those legislative tools and of that good work of the Tax Agency, because we have obtained the best results in the history of democracy, whether they like it or not, in the fight against fraud. The reality is that tax fraud, as I have told you before, existed before the People's Party came to the government, but the reality is that with the Socialist Party some big fortunes and some big companies were calling for tax havens, and the People's Party, the People's Party government has passed laws that are truly effective in fighting and preventing fraud. Therefore, in this amendment to the whole, they are once again seen as the plumer of demagogy, the plumer of populism, and they are seen as the position in which they have installed the entire legislature saying one thing and doing the opposite, asking for transparency and voting today against the publication of the data of those fraudsters convicted of tax offences. Therefore, socialists, pure demagogy, pure theater. We, of course, will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Madrazo. - DRAFT LAW CONCERNING EXTRAORDINARY CREDITS AND A SUPPLEMENT OF IMPORTED CREDIT OF 856.440.673.35 EUROS IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BUDGET, TO ACCEPT THE PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAMMES AND TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2015 OF 14 MAY]] [[File number 121/000159]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u46	We turn to the debate on the entire bill granting extraordinary credits and a credit supplement of €856,440,673.35 in the budget of the Ministry of Defence to cover the payment of obligations relating to special arms programmes and the performance of other activities of the department, coming from the Royal Decree-Law 7/2015, of 14 May. A number of amendments have been tabled to this bill. Firstly, for the Joint Group, whose representatives will speak both to defend the amendment and to establish a position, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for this year's defence has increased by more than 1.9 billion, and of these 1.9 billion today we are debating more than 850 in public debt, which is why there is no reason not to present this amendment as a whole. This politically disgusts us because while we have seen how wages have been devalued, how the budgets for health, education, dependency and also, why not say so, while it has been legislated against civil rights, while all this was happening and moreover the People's Party was socializing a discourse aimed at justifying the need for austerity and the sacrifice of citizenship, the defence budget was being intensified in a crazy, absurd and irrational way. In fact, we are the victims of a speech that subscribes to the arms industry, that subscribes to defence budgets and their multiplication, which are not strictly the responsibility of the People's Party. It is also true that the 30 billion debt that we have accumulated in everything that relates to arms contracts and programmes originate in other conservative and socialist governments, hence it is somewhat pornographic, if I am accepted by the expression, that while we are trying to make citizens believe that they are guilty of excesses, which is why today we have to suffer the destruction of the social and legal state as well, we do not come to remember these 30 billion debt caused by the madness of arms contracts, the 20 billion caused by an irrational network of the AVE or the 30 billion debt accumulated to serve the oligopoly of the electrics. Well, when all this is happening, how dare you now even raise 850 million more at the cost of public debt, which we will have to pay with the corresponding interest? It is a military expenditure that now already means for each taxpayer to pay 2.5 euros a day - it must be remembered that paying the Army costs 50 million dollars a day - and a debt that implies the commitment for each of the taxpayers of 1,500 euros. All this will be to buy military aircraft, combat cars and all kinds of weapons superprojects. In addition, now Mr Morenes is still planning to extend the arms programmes by 10 billion more. I mean, 30 grand hasn't been paid, and they're already trying to get us into 10 billion more. This is not understood, although it does have a logic, an internal logic that we have already denounced on the day that they put a representative of the lobby of the arms industry, Mr Morenes - as if the fox were put in the henhouse - in charge of the Ministry of Defence. We said it then and it's said now. We therefore reject the decree which seeks this increase of 850 million expenditure, we have amended it in its entirety and, finally, we propose the following: one, that public debt cannot be allocated to military expenditure; two, that the resources of the Contingency Fund cannot be allocated to military expenditure; and three, that all the soft credits granted by the Government to the arms industry be returned and that they have not been collected, especially those earmarked for military R & D. Because what is the meaning of these credits when it is cut in civil research, in civil technological development or in scientific and university innovation? In conclusion, we also demand something that we have been demanding for a few years now and that is nothing more than a 40% reduction in military and defence spending, which the Republic of Germany did a few years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u48	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. By the same group, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. I start my speech with a radical good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Throughout this time of the Greek crisis we have heard the President of the radical right-wing government, Mr Rajoy, make a radical statement: we are a serious government. A serious government that has not dared to go out here to defend its own decree, a serious government that brings for the fourth time the same summer decree to this House. So instead of being serious, I get a radical laugh, because I don't see where that seriousness is. Euro5,768 million was allocated to the Ministry of Defence in the State's General Budgets, but year after year with radical premeditation and mild summer brings a decree to inject extra amounts into the Ministry's budget for the payment of special arms programmes. Every year it's about 800 million. This year, 856; 833 in 2014; 877 in 2013, and 1,700 in 2012. It was already past; it happened in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Years ago, there was what was called the summer song, and this, without any doubt, could be the title of the summer decree. He has won his place justly and radically. Moreover, in the budget implementation as at 31 May, once again the most significant difference between what is budgeted and what is actually spent comes from the Ministry of Defence. In particular, the EUR 5,768 million allocated has already been converted into EUR 7,368 million, i.e. the deviation adds up to this point of the year to EUR 1,6 billion. We know the fate of 856 million by this decree, we know the fate of another 350 by international missions, by the Ebola crisis or by diets, but we lack to know the fate of almost 400 million who enter the heading of uncharacterized. I would like the Minister to ask you if you can explain in a radical way the fate of these 400 million, what they have been spent on. Finally, we are finishing the legislature, we have been together, not upset, for almost four years and I would like to bring back the two words that I have heard most from this rostrum in this legislature of the lips of Members of the People's Party: inheritance received. They have repeated them machaconically with the frequency of a Kalashnikov. Let's talk about inheritance. Who signed these arms purchase commitments? Was it Mr. Aznar's government? How much will this arms purchase program cost us in the end, $30 billion? How long are we gonna be paying? Or rather, what inheritance does the People's Party leave to all citizens in weapons programs? It leaves us arms debts until 2030, in addition to the public debt it has served to finance this budget increase. I would like to ask you: is that so, Minister? But he's not, so I can't ask him. And then they talk about seriousness. That's why I'm going to vote radically no. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u50	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u51	Today we are discussing a bill, which, while it is the fourth extraordinary appropriation for arms programmes approved in this legislature, is the first time that it has been accepted as a bill. That's why we think this is a bill for the laundering of that royal decree. And why does the government want to whitewash that custom of its royal decrees? The real extraordinary credit decree was 1,782 million in 2012; 877 million in 2013; 883 million in 2014. Those three were by royal decree. [[The Lord]] However, the latter is brought by the Government as a draft law with little intention of accepting any amendment, as we know who we have convened a procedural paper at the end of this plenary session, to whitewash the form of the royal decree, because it has become very evident, in part thanks to the work of my group, that there is no such extraordinary and urgent need that the Constitutional Court requires to adopt real decrees. The report that my parliamentary group released last summer on arms programmes included the smoking gun, so to speak, which shows that this extraordinary, urgent and emerging need does not exist, since there is a Cabinet of Ministers agreement of August 2013, which sets out how payments will be made, year by year, for arms programmes. The five Members of my parliamentary group have signed an appeal to the Constitutional Court on these decrees which have been admitted to procedure and the Government is therefore aware that the possibility of financing arms programmes through extraordinary appropriations approved by decree is at risk. We know that this money has already been approved, since the decree is already published. Perhaps even that amount has already been released, yet today we are doing this process to whiten those 856 million. This bill does not go into the substance of the matter, which is to conduct an audit of arms programmes. We have repeatedly asked for it in this House. It has been done by other countries in our environment, such as Germany, which is an example of public money control, and we have generally warned on numerous occasions that budgetary defence chaos is unacceptable to a country like ours. It has also been pointed out by the Court of Auditors in another matter, the question of how international missions are budgeted. The Ministry of Defence itself, in a November 2011 report, talked about how these weapons programmes are sown with irregularities, abuse, cost overruns and even scandals. Therefore, our amendment, which proposes an alternative text, insists once again on the replacement of this credit and that it be stopped subject to the justification of that amount, which is approved through an external audit and which contains, at least, a report - a study of the audit itself - relating to - and I read what we have already requested on other occasions in this House through non-legislative proposals - the actual usefulness of the nineteen programmes in relation to existing threats and risks to defence; the total or partial amount of the programmes received and those that have not been received; the validity or denunciation of the various contracts with the industry; the cost of each programme and the payment plan for each programme; the timetables for the repayment of loans granted by the Ministry of Industry to the companies responsible for the production of each programme. We believe that at least these extremes should be included in that external audit. Therefore, in our alternative text we include a transitional provision that requires that this audit be carried out and that the 2015 credit be subject, first, to all these extremes being known within a maximum of six months. This is the only way to put the arms programmes in order, which began in 1997 and which already involves a payment commitment of 30 billion. That is, a Bankia and a half; although it must be said that, due to the opacity in the defence budget, we do not know the exact amount; about 30 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, what we propose and put to your vote is that alternative text tabled by my group, because with all that we know at this stage of the arms programmes, despite the difficulties and opacity of the ministry, with the fact that this funding, through royal decree and extraordinary credit, is under consideration by the Constitutional Court and, therefore, under threat of being declared unconstitutional, and with the shadow of the doubt expressed in reports by the Ministry of Defence itself, it is impossible to come another year to approve the same extraordinary credit only by trying to launder it through this bill. Of course, my group is not going to vote for it and we call for the support of all the groups in the House for our alternative text, which is the only thing that tries to provide transparency and clarity in the ministry that probably has the most opaque and unknown accounts of the entire Government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. Mr Xuclà has the floor to present his amendment, also with an alternative text, by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as some of the arguments that lead us to present an amendment to the whole by the speakers who have spoken before me have already been taken up, and as time is generous in the parliamentary debate to be able to present an amendment to the whole with an alternative text, allow me to use the first few minutes of my speech to make a little bit of history to know why we have come here and why we are in this debate full of irrationality. Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 September 2011, in the last week of the previous parliamentary term, on the last Wednesday of the previous parliamentary term, the Secretary of State for Defence of the Socialist Government appeared in the Perez Llorca Chamber. Some Members and Members of the Defence Spokespersons work throughout the legislature trying to shed light on the expenditure on arms purchases I remember perfectly that Mrs Rodríguez-Salmones and I myself questioned the Secretary of State who, as a very positive legacy from the point of view of transparency and clarification of what we were discussing - I quote the 'Diary of Sessions' of the Defence Commission - literally stated: We should not have acquired or acquired present and future systems that we are not going to use for confrontational scenarios that do not exist and, more importantly, with money that we did not have even at the time when you ruled and had to make decisions or have it now. End of appointment, September 21, 2011. That debate referred to the nineteen special arms programmes in force at the time, which are currently in force and have a cost of approximately EUR 30 billion, which have not been charged as a deficit, because they would have triggered it, but are seen in the state accounts as commitments entered into, which are being dealt with year by year through inappropriate mechanisms, which have led us to present this amendment in full with alternative text. Socialists called on the representatives of the People's Party when they ruled, in the period 1996-2004, then the People's Party returned to the government and the new Secretary of State for Defence, Mr Argüelles, at a first appearance on the Defence Commission, in April 2012, pledged to do things differently from what had been done in recent years. On 23 May 2013, the Secretary of State, Mr Argüelles Salaverría, said: Ladies and gentlemen, from the Ministry of Defence we believe that it is not enough to reprogram the financial resources without taking action or simply to renew the scope and composition of the programmes. These two necessary measures lead us to a third measure: the review of our programme procurement system. End of date. The Secretary of State also stated at the same meeting: Ladies and gentlemen, from the very first day on, the Government thought that the priority was to tackle the problem and not to dilate it further. In recent years, the absence of reforms and active management had created problems in our finances and in the possibility of opening up new programmes. End of date. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State for Defence considered it a priority to deal with the problem and not to dilate it, but this has not been the tonic - the constant, to be exact - of this legislature. This has been a legislature in which the Government has not submitted a restructuring programme. If we are talking about restructuring, the 30 billion of the 19 special arms programmes must also be restructured. An overall view has not been made, as proposed by the alternative text of UPyD, which we are going to vote in favour, which proposes to deal with this reality, to evaluate with the analysis of an audit, outside the Ministry of Defence, whether defence expenditure was appropriate or whether it was outside the scope of the possibilities of defence policies, whether it was under a defence strategy or as an industrial conversion plan, because I have the impression that to a large extent the investments of some of these special defence programmes had the strategy, especially in the years of crisis in the Socialist Government, of an investment for the industrial conversion of the defence sector in Spain. We have to discuss - a moment ago someone was talking about the PlanE - first, if with public money we have to do some defense programs above the defense possibilities and, second, if they are defense programs that in the end have served - because we are focusing the final straight of the legislature - to sell and endorse commercially and transparently - or not very transparently, because we have no knowledge in this House - part of these programs and arms to third countries. With this, ladies and gentlemen, the focus has been that every year, in the middle of the summer, in the middle of the year, the vote has been taken on a real decree-law extending a credit for the Ministry of Defence with a very remarkable amount, which has passed from 1.3 billion a year to 850 other years, and every year patches have been incorporated to deal with expenses without having a picture of overall expenditure, commitments, what can be faced and what needs to be renounced. One year - I remember perfectly well - the royal decree was discussed on 1 August - not in this Chamber but when this Congress exceptionally met in the Senate - and you know that there was a very long debate all morning in which, on behalf of my parliamentary group, Mr Campuzano intervened because in the same royal decree there were social policy measures and also, by the way, by chance, an extraordinary 900 and peak million euros to meet the commitments on armaments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not serious, the royal decree was not intended to be used in many of the cases used by the royal decree, but certainly nineteen arms programmes that have been in place since the 1990s are not cases of extraordinary and urgent necessity; they are cases of abdication of the executive's responsibility, of informing the House, of structuring and restructuring this debt and of announcing how it is dealt with. Four royal decrees have been raised on which there are doubts about their constitutionality and some parliamentary groups have brought these royal decrees to the Constitutional Court through an appeal of unconstitutionality. Our parliamentary group did not sign this unconstitutionality appeal but expressed its legal interest - not political interest - for the Constitutional Court to decide on this matter. Every year there have been strict royal decrees, and this past year - in time of parliamentary discount - the majority group accepted that this royal decree would be treated as a bill, and that is exactly what we are discussing today, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of gesticulation - and if I may leave it here - in the political decision to process this royal decree as a bill, for two reasons: first, because payments must already have been made and, second, because despite the legislative frenzy and the legislative speed with which the majority group is working, it is very difficult for this bill to culminate with a law that has something substantial. It would seem very good to us even if the majority group, the Government and this House finally took advantage of this bill - although the mechanism is not through the amendments but if they want to do so... - to make a substantive approach to the whole of the arms debt and how it is to be dealt with, but I am afraid that this is much simpler, it is a washing up of a few months before the end of the legislature turning a real decree into a bill. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as the parliamentary debate on budgets is expected to take place in the coming months, we have wanted to take this opportunity to put forward an alternative model at this current political moment of the Spanish State, Spain, of this country, on how EUR 856.4 million should be spent. We, ladies and gentlemen, propose that these EUR 856.4 million should be earmarked for urgent items. The policy is to prioritize, the policy is to point out what public resources, the resources of our citizens, should be devoted to. Those who vote in favour of our initiative will vote in favour of a priority programme. We want to prioritise a programme of social services aimed at combating child poverty that exists after seven and a half years of severe crisis; it is about allocating 250,000 euros to a programme to combat child poverty. We want to devote EUR 282.440 million to the financing of the Unit Act, because, ladies and gentlemen, you know that there is a Unit Act that provides for 50 per cent funding from the State and 50 per cent from the Autonomous Communities and other administrations, and you also know that at the moment the State does not come to finance it by 20 per cent, that there has not been a review of the basis, the scope, the material perimeter of this Act, but that the financing of it, of its commitments, has been loaded on the backs of the Autonomous Communities by more than 80 per cent. We set up a €50 million budget for day care - yes, for day care - because this is a public and social policy for the promotion of family policies. We propose a budget of EUR 120 million for grants and aid, and also a budget for a health cohesion fund to meet the health policy burdens of the autonomous communities. It seems to us very well to maintain the EUR 4 million envisaged by the Royal Decree and this law that we are dealing with for the problems arising from the Ebola outbreak and to strengthen the hospitals dedicated to dealing with this health emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our approach. Fortunately, fifteen minutes allow us to express well the why of things, which comes from that day in late September 2011 when we were told a mistake. Four years have passed and the error has not been addressed, but we have gone from a royal decree to a royal decree facing a situation that is not of extraordinary and urgent necessity. In conclusion, they will allow me to say that it has a point of Dalinian surrealism - I come from the demarcation where Salvador Dalí was born - to process as a bill investments that are surely already paid and with a legislative timetable that allows us to face a substantive approach to how to deal with the payment of the nineteen special arms programmes that involve commitments of more than 30 billion euros. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Interventions by the groups. To fix positions, let's start with the Basque Group, PNV. Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking from the seat to say that this is not a new debate, because obviously we have already had the debate of the consideration. It is not new either by the procedure or by the contents that we develop, but precisely the lack of novelty is what makes unacceptable once again the system that the Government has used for these kinds of issues. We are critical - not to say that we are totally against them - of two main concepts: in the methodology and in part of the contents that will be dealt with in this bill. As for the methodology, it is not new because all the colleagues who have preceded me in the use of the word have said so. We cannot legislate in this way on credits that are extraordinary knowing that there are these needs, that they are predictable, that there is no urgency, that it is not something that has happened suddenly, that it is not a flood or a catastrophe, that are also outstanding, that is known, that year goes and year comes. And with this way of legislating, they come to us as a royal decree. Moreover, these royal decrees are not for this, they are not used for this type of issues. Why are they not included in the State General Budgets? Knowing that there will be such needs, that there are outstanding issues, that there are suppliers to be paid for, that there are commitments made, whether or not they agree with those payments or whether or not they are needed, commitments exist and there are companies, there are people who have worked and what cannot be used is this system. Why is the year coming and going we repeat the same thing to you and you don't listen? Other groups filed an appeal. Obviously we do not sign it either, as other colleagues have said, but there it is pending. Anyway, I keep insisting, why don't you include in the General Budgets of the State something that you know has to come? Because we are not talking about any nonsense either, we are talking about EUR 856 million. Bringing now an extraordinary credit in the form of a bill, as colleague Jordi Xuclà has said, of something that is already executed, does not have a pass, said in a vulgar way. We do not agree with this form of legislation, we do not agree that these issues should be brought forward in this way. Furthermore, as far as the content is concerned, we can differ greatly and the story that Mr Xuclà has now told is very interesting, because these questions cannot be used according to who is in charge and at what time. Posts to demagogy, last week, at a round table on health, a fellow member of the People's Party criticized and said that if the Catalan government used money to boost health rather than open embassies around the world, it would have more money for that purpose. Do you know how many vaccines you can buy with what is worth the Taurus missile, which costs us 10 million euros and I don't know who we're going to use against? We must be very careful about the demagoguegies that are used for certain issues, because in this one, with all these concepts that appear in this bill, we can do everything we want. Therefore, careful, they are much more serious issues and we find very bad way to legislate this one of the real decrees, because it seems that you want to hide something, that there is no desire to clarify, that instead of presenting open chapters in the budgets in which everyone knows for what it is, it is brought in a medium dark form in the form of a real decree something that we all know will then approve by an absolute majority. Consequently, we are very critical of both methodology and content. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Sanz has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by giving a little thought to this legislative pantomime, to which the Government is going to re-submit to us today, in disguised as a legislative decree, because we know positively that they have no vocation to enter into discussions with the rest of the groups on this matter, and less to reach agreements. This is a matter that is no more than the one that we are going to spend more than EUR 800 million on public debt on arms. It is clear that the twisted form used by the People's Party to hide this expenditure year after year, so that people do not know how much we spend on weapons, is as much as it is de facto to acknowledge that this expenditure is absolutely indefensible if it was put on the table in a transparent way. Everything has a limit, after three summer decrees to go unnoticed this expenditure in 2015 and after the admission to procedure by the Constitutional Court of the appeal submitted, among others, by my group to last year's decree, they have been forced to modify their strategy of concealment and to pergeate this unfortunate legislative alibi - because it cannot be called otherwise - which is going to take forward a necessary debate - it has already been put on the table - which has many edges but all of them are of supreme relevance to Spain. A debate that should focus on what the future of these arms programmes is going to be, what our country's commitment to arms procurement is going to be, what our country's defence needs are, what it is and what that defence model should be, and, in general, what priorities this Government has and what priorities this Government does not have, as it is demonstrating with such measures. It is also a good time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to reflect on the difference between the legal and the legitimate. What can be legal is absolutely illegitimate if in the end we allocate - with what we will approve today or next week, because the speed of cruise with which you perpetrate the laws is absolutely unbearable - more than 4 billion euros in this legislature to buy weapons, missiles, tanks, with which it is falling, with the millions of unemployed that we have in our country, with the poverty that exists in our country. The Plural Left is going to try to make sure that people know that you have very little interest in the debt situation in Spain, no matter how much you are all day with that mantra, as long as it stops at those good causes that you think you are. Similarly, you have little interest in the situation of poverty and institutionalised cuts that you have imposed on the social majority in this country, which you laugh at with such measures. The important thing is the content of the law, its raison d'être, not what adorns it, as we have been living in other years. I want to remind you that we have come to vote for missiles and vaccines in the same decree. In this case there are other measures, but the important thing, once again, is the payment of the EPAs, the special arms programmes, an invoice that, as I told you, will already be €4 billion in this legislature. From there, there are some questions that are in the air and that we ask ourselves not only The Plural Left, but much of the citizenship. Why has the People's Party not maintained the policy of cuts in this area that it has maintained in other areas? Why didn't they? Why has the People's Party not only guaranteed the payment of these arms programmes, prioritizing them against other basic needs such as health, education or work, but also increased them by EUR 10 billion in this legislature? Why not, happy with it, the People's Party is limiting our policy of research, development and innovation to the military sphere, thus reducing the possibility of pushing forward a new productive model that will pilot over it? Why does the People's Party refuse to put black on white the status of these programs and the credits of the Ministry of Industry with which their production is being paid? The business is round: we finance production and secure purchase. These questions, as I was telling you, not only do we do them ourselves, but they are made much of the citizenry, which finds easy answers because you do not want to give them. Perhaps it is the pressure capacity of the arms lobby, perhaps the answer is on the rotating doors or perhaps it is in the corporate vocation of our defence minister - again absent today - as executive of the sector. The truth is that our country has one of its worst black pits in these special weapons programs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this law closes the door to debates that, as we say, are essential, such as that which has to do with R & D & I policies. When are we going to discuss our model of research, development and innovation policies and, above all, in relation to defence? For the Plural Left a radical change, a change of course, a clear bet on the conversion of military R & D into civilian R & D is essential. If you had put the same emphasis on boosting that conversion that you have put on boosting the military industry, not only would employment have been guaranteed but the foundations of a responsible and socially useful economy had also been laid. Our proposal guarantees the maintenance and creation of quality jobs with high social added value; its aim is to perpetuate, through fear and without any modesty to the workers in the sector, a defence system understood as a display of weapons to be sold for the benefit - and it is the most serious, ladies and gentlemen - of a few. That is why, through our amendments, we want to know in depth what is the situation in which the repayment of appropriations, of loans which, through the Ministry of Industry, are allocated year by year to this industry in order to produce what we then buy from them, as is the case, by public debt with summer decrees. That is why we also demand a thorough analysis of how each of these weapons programmes is doing and whether they are suitable or not; even more so when our Armed Forces have very important needs to ensure their full operation, which of course cannot be satisfied because the defence budget is devoured to a large extent by these summer arms payments. That is why from The Plural Left we demand this analysis, an analysis that must also allow us to address a debate that you repeatedly deny, which is nothing other than that of what our real defence needs are and whether these needs involve this type of production and subsequent purchase of weapons or not through these special programmes. Obviously from The Plural Left we will vote in favour of the proposals put forward by all groups as alternative texts to which the Government brings and puts on the table, as they coincide with the spirit of the partial amendments that our group has tabled to this bill. I'm finishing up. These are the issues that should be the focus of the debate before us today, but unfortunately it seems to me that we are going to see again how the People's Party is preventing its debate and this debate is colliding with the interests of a government that of course wants to be anything but transparent, even though it plays floral games like this procedure which then passes through the paper and which is expected to be fully satisfied next week; that is, it does not debate. It is a government of yours, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which certifies through this shameful procedure its commitment to the bosses of the war sector, being able to remain in evidence, as has already been said here, for the forms and also for the substance and the little respect that is given to this House, before it stops paying that invoice that checks to check, year by year, is already for more than 4 billion euros. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u58	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to abstain in the vote on these amendments to the alternative text which the parliamentary groups have defended with regard to this bill. It is an absolutely false bill, but not only false but irrelevant, the People's Party bench knows it perfectly well, but we do not share, by substantial elements, the amendments that have been put forward by the parliamentary groups as an alternative, both of the Convergence group, which has spoken of a distribution of these amounts, because I believe that this is not the place to do so, as of the Republican Left Group of Catalonia, which goes much further and speaks of the impossibility that certain expenses may be paid through debts, or the external audit that Mrs Lozano, from UPyD, poses, without expressing how this audit would be articulated. There is one point in common in all the alternative amendments which is that these arms programmes are not paid, that is the point in common, that for one reason or another it is not paid exactly this money that appears in this bill. What happens is that this is already paid, it is that others have ratified a decree-law that from the minute one of the approval by the Government is in force and will have already been paid, as mentioned above. Therefore, there is no possibility that this will be carried over because it is already paid. Furthermore, we have never said that the commitments and legal obligations acquired are not paid. On the special arms programmes, which amount to up to 2 and 3 points of GDP, we have said that they must be rearranged, reorganised, reprogrammed and that they must be done with all the parliamentary groups, which has not happened. At the beginning of the legislature, the Secretary of State deceived us by saying that he was immediately going to call the parliamentary groups to see how this huge budgetary problem that has collapsed spending in the Ministry of Defence of this legislature was faced. We find that instead of a phone call to call us to that meeting what we had is the first decree-law on special weapons programs. Above all, what we have reiterated, and it has been said here by many of the previous speakers, is that it cannot be that payments are not included in these special arms programmes in the General Budgets of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a table showing the difference - perhaps you do not see it from there - between what is programmed in the General State Budgets for special arms programmes and what is being implemented. Practically the amount programmed and approved every November or every December was almost 7 million euros and here we have these huge columns that are executed through extraordinary credits. The same has been planned every year and in 2012 7 million were included in the budgets for programme 122.B, expenditure on special modernization programmes. In 2012 - it was the first - 1,782 million euros were executed in payments of special arms programs. In the following year the 7 million became 877 million. In the following year, 2014, the projected 7 million in the budgets became a real execution of 883 million, and this year, 2015, the 7 million conscripts have become 846 million. That is to say, in the legislature you have approved in the General Budgets of the State for special programmes of armaments 27,377,000 euros and have implemented in this legislature through the established decrees-laws 4,390 million euros. 27 million are programmed and 4,390 million are implemented. That is, you have irregularly executed one hundred and sixty times the amount that was planned for those programs in the State General Budgets, one hundred and sixty times. It is a real scandal, of course, nothing similar has occurred through extraordinary appropriations in any other budget item certainly in all the legislatures of Spanish democracy. Therefore, we are before a bill derived from a decree-law that is rigorously unnecessary, a useless bill, a farce. It has been called bleaching, concealment and pantomime, but we would call it a true farce executed before this Chamber because the aim of this bill is none, simply masking the absolute unconstitutionality of the decree-law from which it derives, nothing more than that. There has never been an emergency or extraordinary need in this legislature to pass these decree-laws. There's never been one. And this year 2015 is the most absurd of all because, why have you proposed a decree law also this year if you were to treat it as a bill? Why a decree-law? I believe that they did not intend to do so and they have finally come up with a bill to try to heal two things in this way. Firstly, in order to remedy the obvious unconstitutionality on which we expect the Constitutional Court to pronounce as a result of last year's unconstitutionality appeal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and other parliamentary groups and of another unconstitutionality appeal lodged last week by the Socialist Parliamentary Group against the decree-law adopted by the Government a few weeks ago. This is the first objective; useless, because there is already the decree-law in force. Secondly, in order to remedy the concern and concern in the defence industry that the Constitutional Court may eventually annul payments made to the defence industry. This bill cannot heal any of that, because the decree-law that was passed a few weeks ago is already in force. He doesn't heal anything at all. It only serves to give us reason, because the Government was no longer enduring the stigma of unconstitutionality of this entire line of decree-laws and has ended up accepting that something should be done through a bill. That's what it's been for, to give us the reason ultimately. We want to look to the future and therefore we have tabled two amendments which would do well to support. The first relates to the 2016 budgets announced by Mr Rajoy. Mr Rajoy has announced that he is going to present a budget here and that he is going to process it. Everyone knows that they are absolutely electoral budgets, but the most serious of these budgets is not that, but that they are budgets that are going to be presented disregarding the will of those who are going to vote in November or December and disregarding the majority that is going to form in this Chamber and that will be absolutely different from what is right now here. The Government will place that budget on a different majority who will have to use that instrument at least initially. It is an absolute disregard for the majority decision of the citizens, but, as we fear that this will happen, we have tabled an amendment saying that for once in the legislature you are going to submit your budgets this month include special arms programmes. In addition, we are putting forward another amendment so that before March next year the next Government, which will be different from the one that is now, will finally send a communication to this House on the management of the financing of these special arms programmes; a rethinking, a reprogramming. We also believe that they should be tailored to military priorities and defence needs rather than to the treasury needs of arms suppliers. You know that we have raised in this Chamber the need for multiannual programming for defence investments and that we have been defeated by the absolute majority of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u60	Mr. López Garrido, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u61	Mr. President, I'm done. We do not expect a change in the conduct of the People's Party or in the conduct of the People's Party with regard to special arms programmes. It's just comforting us that it's definitely going to be the last time they do. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. Mrs Barreiro has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard everything in this rostrum. I have heard of opacity, concealment, deceptive bleaching, concealment of debate, perversion in the legislative procedure. I have heard all the qualifications and, ladies and gentlemen, this becomes a Kafkian debate. What do we do here if we are hiding, whitening, perverting the legislative process? It's from here where the laws are processed. It is from here that the procedures are issued and it is from here that popular sovereignty resides, where we approve or reject projects and proposals. Today, all of you have gone away to complain bitterly if it is treated as a decree, if it is a way of hiding it, if the Government is not able to put it in the budgets, if Mr Montoro says this or the other, but here no one has talked about paying what is due, no one has talked about that national defense needs modern weapons and high technology. No one has said that when we are filled with the mouths of sending our men and women to peace missions, they must go well, with modern and effective weapons. [[Applauds]] But, yes, if anything happens, immediately commission of inquiry to see what vests they were wearing, what weapons they had and how they defended themselves. [[Applauds]] That is what I call the perversion of speech, that is what I call the perversion in not passing on to the citizenry what is really being debated. None of you are able to show up in a city that has a defence industry and say that you do not pay what is due and that the defence industries are closed. None. [[Applauds]] Someone who's been at the head of a city council that has great power in the defense industry is telling you. You're talking about arms lobbies that push us. I'd ask you to talk to the company committee in Navantia to tell them they're not going to pay the S-80s, to tell them they're not done, to see if you know what a lobby pressure is. [[Applauds]] But you don't know that, you don't know that. You come here to say that they do not have weapons, that national defence is not provided with the means necessary to live up to the circumstances and our commitments to international conventions. That's what you were talking about here. There was nothing else to talk about. Do you think that citizenship cares a lot if this is treated as a bill or a decree or if it has more amendments or less? The 60,000 defence industry workers want to collect, they want a job, they want high technology, they want security. [[Applauds]] Companies want to know that the following year they can pay their workers. Entrepreneurs want to know if they can continue investing in R+D+i. Credits come from the Government and come from the State. That's what we were talking about, not paying and not fulfilling our obligations, but we haven't talked at all about the 60,000 workers. We have not talked about the 800 companies, we have not talked about the deficit that it would produce, we have not talked about what it means in a town, in a city. Go to the Bay of Cadiz, go to Cartagena, go to Ferrol and say that of weapons, nothing, that we are going to dedicate ourselves to doing something else, that what needs to be done is municipal day care centers. I will tell you one thing, the first social policy is to give workers jobs so that they can spend their money as they see fit. [[Applauds]] That is the first social policy. That's what we're talking about. In any of these cities shutting down one of these companies, cancelling a defence program will mean that the vast majority of its citizens remain unemployed. That's a social emergency. That's where we'd have to enable credits we wouldn't have in order to deal with him. That's not what we've been talking about here, either. There's no talk here about that. We are talking here about the annoyance of parliamentary groups that this is being dealt with in one way or another, that they steal from us, steal from us the debate, the speech. I've been listening to them all carefully, and I don't think anyone's been robbed of the speech. What we need to talk about is national defence, how we want it, if we want a modern army that can compete, that can be with other armies on peace missions, that has for emergencies and if we have to pay what we owe and what we have commissioned. That's what it's all about. My group is therefore going to vote against the refund amendments for obvious reasons, as you can imagine. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs Barreiro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u65	The adoption by the House of a single direct reading of the third protocol amending the Convention on Cooperation in Defence between the Kingdom of Spain and the United States of America of 1 December 1988 and its amendments, done in Washington on 17 June 2015. I would like to point out that this is not a matter of discussing the substance of this matter. That's what we'll see next week in length. What is subject to the House's approval is direct and read-only processing. Therefore, it is a formal aspect. I say so so that those who are going to intervene will know. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to go to the point as the President suggests, because what we have to say from my group about this procedure can be summed up in a Spanish saying that the rushes for criminals and bad bullfighters. Our country's relationship with an ally like the United States is important enough to have an in-depth debate when discussing this protocol to amend the convention. As much as the People's Party likes the short debates, which we also represent citizens in other parliamentary groups, we like the extensive debates, and it seems to us that it is particularly important when we talk about shortening and limiting the debate, as this procedure does, referring to a matter in which we from my group believe that it is particularly important to involve society; because ours is not a society in which there is no room for improvement with regard to the culture of defence, the culture of security and the strategic culture. In fact, we often hear the Minister of Defence say that it is necessary to improve the knowledge of society in these matters; it is necessary to promote the culture of security, the culture of defence and the strategic culture; and we believe that a good time to do so is the parliamentary process of this amendment in the 1988 convention on the use of the Morón base. It seems to us that it is clumsy not to take advantage of this amendment so that there can be an in-depth debate on this matter. This opacity, this lack of information and these limits to political participation - because shortening the debate is limiting the possibilities of people to get informed and what is more basic to participate politically than having information - are multiplying, because fundamental information has also been stolen from the Courts to understand, in its depth, the consequences of the reform of this convention. In the agreement of understanding between the two ministries, the Spanish Ministry of Defence and the United States Ministry of Defence are covered by two very important aspects of this reform: one, the investments planned in Morón; and the other, the one relating to the recruitment of personnel. I am not going to go into the substance of the matter, but I believe that the labour dispute between the workers in Morón, with whom my group met a few weeks ago, justifies that this information, at least, should be provided to the Courts. With this swift and urgent procedure, we believe that once again legality is saved but the legitimacy of Congress is neglected, and it seems to me that this House is not left with legitimacy so that we may disregard it. That's why I end up as I started, ladies and gentlemen, in a hurry for criminals and bad bullfighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. Mr Centella has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u68	Let's talk about the way. You are going to replace the picture of the Azores with a picture of the coming week quickly, with night and lightness. You will have your own photo; Mr Aznar had it in the Azores and you will have it next week in an emergency procedure and in one reading. The form is important, but the background is also important, and here the form and the background - let us not be fooled - go to what they are going to lose sovereignty and to make our homeland a less secure one, that homeland that you defend every day of the Constitution and from which you then forget the rest of the year. But let's keep talking about the way. They are going to change a treaty that affects Andalusia - they are going to turn it into an insecure land, it is going to be the target of many attacks - without consulting the Andalusian Parliament, trampling on its status of autonomy. They are going to do so by violating an organic law - all they claim is that this happens in a hidden way - through a process of other times, to which you have subscribed in this legislature, a process - as has already been said - that avoids an in-depth debate and that you have an equally deep knowledge. Here the form also conditions the background and the Spaniards have the right to know what you are going to process next week and why you want to do it this way, why you want to do a direct and read-only processing, with night and lightness, something that will directly affect the security of each of the Spaniards and the Spanish. That's why the shape is tremendously dangerous. I repeat, that picture of the Azores from next week on will be replaced by the photo of this House voting yes to a treaty that makes us an area that will be considered a threat by millions of people all over the planet. You pass one red line, one more of those you have passed in this legislature. No one in Parliament and democracy - my colleague Joan Coscubiela has said - is great for them. They still think that democracy is something dangerous, that it is only a procedure that they have to cover, something that they have to spend every week in this House, but, ladies and gentlemen, their time will come sooner than later. You want to leave it tied and well bound, because it is true that we will change laws, but it will be much more complicated to change a treaty. They want to amend this treaty so that the next Parliament will find its hands tied and have no choice but to maintain a situation that - I repeat - will turn Spain into a territory that will be regarded as an enemy by many millions of people on this planet. My group believes that it should have been done normally to - another spokesman has said - see what happens to the situation of the workers, which must be discussed, and to have the possibility of submitting amendments, but no, you take the deal, an urgent procedure to liquidate it next week, as you have liquidated other procedures of particular importance to our society. They may have an absolute majority, but the Members who vote today and next week will have on their conscience to have turned this country, this state, into a much more insecure state. I repeat, that photo of the Azores, starting next week will be your own photo, will be the photo of those who vote in favour of this treaty. My group is going to vote against the procedure. It is clear that we will try to present an amendment in its entirety and to highlight that it is in the interest of not knowing who to national security in the best possible way. They do it as undemocraticly as possible. It is true that it will be legal but it has nothing ethical, much less it has nothing to consider with the Andalusian Parliament, a Parliament that represents millions of people who are affected by this process. I would like the speaker of the People's Party to explain whether the Autonomous Community of Andalusia has been consulted, as indicated by the Statute of Autonomous Authority of Andalusia, when it comes to this rostrum. Therefore, our negative vote is a vote clearly to your conscience, it is a vote that puts them in evidence and our group will vote against this week and also the next one. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió, Mr Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, President Posada has asked us not to go into the substance of the matter because this will be discussed next week. It is really difficult not to get into the bottom of the matter, as has been noted by the speakers who have preceded me in the use of the floor. [[The lady]] I would like to announce that the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union is going to vote in favour of the single reading of this international treaty. In honor of the truth, one day we will have to discuss in this House whether, on a single reading or without a single reading, international treaties are of particular interest because in my years of parliamentary experience - which are a few - I have seen only one case in which amendments have been tabled to an international treaty. At that time, the introduction of amendments that compromised what had already been signed by the Socialist Executive on the right to vote of Spanish residents abroad, and specifically on the extension of the right to vote to all citizens of the countries of Central and South America, meant the suspension and the sending to a dead end of the process of that international treaty. So one day we should review the system for submitting amendments to treaties already signed by governments and the role of Parliament in treaties that it simply ratified. I say this without going into the bottom of the matter. I will simply read - because there are five lines - the preamble to this third protocol amending the Convention of Cooperation for Defence between the Kingdom of Spain and the United States of America. It says this explanatory statement: With the aim of contributing significantly to regional stability and common security in Africa, Europe and the Middle East, by authorizing the permanent deployment of a crisis response force at the Morón air base to protect the citizens and facilities of the United States of America and Spain, as well as other member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, in accordance with Article 2 of the Convention and in support of joint bilateral training and cooperation for regional security...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u71	Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u72	... ratification of this Convention. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, we agree with the inspiring principles that I have just read to you and we will vote in favour of it, and if there is a substantive debate, in this line I have put to you, we will do so on Thursday next week.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u73	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. Mr López Garrido, for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u74	Thank you, Madam President. The reform of the cooperation agreement with the United States, which is to be processed and discussed next week, undoubtedly has key strategic and other dimensions. It has strategic dimensions that affect the security - it is therefore of the utmost political importance - of our country, of the Mediterranean area and of Europe, and I hope that the debate next week will make clear all these extremes. Similarly, it is a modification of an agreement that has much to do with the employment situation of many Spaniards in the area of Morón, which therefore has to do with the interests of Andalusia, and that will also be the subject of our interest. Tomorrow, our parliamentary group is going to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs precisely how this amendment of the convention benefits Andalusia and the region around Morón, but today we are in the process of adopting the single reading or not. We believe that the single-reading proposal should be adopted because we are dealing with a project that has a simple formulation. This is the increase in the number of U.S. military and aircraft at the base of joint use in Moron. That is exactly the only objective of this amendment. The nature of the project also makes it perfectly possible to use the single reading procedure. It is a draft that means the amendment of an international treaty, which does not allow amendments to the article. Therefore, the amendments do not entail any complexity, and for that reason we believe that there are no pitfalls, difficulties or obstacles to a substantive debate that will take place next week. By the way, we are glad that it cannot be adopted by decree-law because the forms are very important, which is something we should say several times to the representative of the People's Group who spoke in the previous debate. The forms are very important and there is no room for this House to decide certain things. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u75	Thank you, Mr. López Garrido. For the People's Group, Mr Tarno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u76	Thank you, Madam President. What we are seeing here is whether there is direct and read-only processing of this agreement. There is a procedure that is not exceptional, that is not strange to the House - it has been done other times -; the deadlines have been met and respected and Rule 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the House will be complied with. I don't see where the problem is. It will be done because - Mr López Garrido has explained very well - it is neither complex nor difficult. It is an international convention where five articles are to be amended and contains a preamble and a final provision. It has no complexity at all; therefore, the debate on how to deal with it is absurd. It will be dealt with as a bill in a direct and unique manner. Of opacity, nothing; of obscurantism, nothing; of none, nothing. It's going to be discussed in the House. How is it going to be dark something that is being debated at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies? How will Congress be denied when we discuss the convention at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies? What are some opposition groups talking about? When it comes to next week, Wednesday or Thursday, we will discuss the convention, about the workers of Rota and Morón, about what we want, and obviously with light and tachographs, never better said. Therefore, there is no point in opposing this procedure by some groups, and that is why we are going to vote in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u77	Thank you, Mr. Tarno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u78	We shall therefore proceed to debate, as agreed in the Permanent Chamber, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, on the need for the Government to consider the immediate reduction of VAT to hairdressers and services provided to individuals who practice sport or physical education in gyms and sports facilities, an activity which is closely linked to the improvement of health habits. For your defence, Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u79	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a motion tabled by the Group of the European Parliament for Convergence and Union, in which we propose as a fundamental objective that the Government take a fair and important decision from our point of view by immediately reducing VAT to all hairdressers and beauty salons, as well as to gyms and sports facilities. We understand that this is an initiative based on the real economy; it is an initiative based on the work of thousands and thousands of self-employed women working in this profession. They are micro-enterprises, small entrepreneurs, self-employed entrepreneurs dedicated to the professional sector of hairdressers, beauty salons and sports facilities. For the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, this initiative is very important because what we intend to do is to defend professional sectors that currently give work, ladies and gentlemen, to 260,000 people from all over the Spanish State. I will repeat, perhaps for the People's Party this is not an important and significant figure, but for our parliamentary group in Convergence and Union it is a very significant figure. We want to preserve these 260,000 jobs. At the same time, this initiative has another relevant objective. If the People's Party Government does not take the decision to reduce VAT from 21 % to 10 %, which is a type that would not have had to be changed, we run the risk, ladies and gentlemen, of destroying more than 70,000 jobs in hairdressers, beauty salons and sports facilities. This objective is fundamental. It is not only to preserve this very important group of 260,000 people - all parliamentary groups should also take it into account, but especially the parliamentary group that supports the Government, which is the People's Party - but there are many jobs that not only occupy women's populations, but also in the gymnastics and beauty salons sector there is an important critical mass of young workers in training who have completed their professional studies and become part of this labour market. It is, I repeat, important to us. Another relevant factor is that, if you do not make the decision to lower these eleven points, the Spanish economy will run the risk of increasing the submerged economy. This has also been an approach that our parliamentary groups have repeatedly raised with the Government. We must fight the submerged economy, we must try to find solutions so that we can prevent businesses from such important sectors as hairdressers, gyms and beauty salons from closing. That is why we reiterate again that we are at the end of the parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, and the People's Party government - I would say that from an electoral perspective - is going to make a tax reduction of the IRPF. We also think it is appropriate and perfect, but we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the rates of personal income tax are likely to be lowered next week, maintaining the same tax rates as Mr Zapatero's last stage of 2012. Spanish citizens who are therefore going to be subject to the income tax on natural persons will therefore pay virtually the same, at the same rate, at the end of 2015 as at the beginning of 2012. I would like to tell the Members of the People's Party to make a more differentiated approach in beauty salons, hairdressers and gyms and to apply the same tax rate that these sectors would have, which would be 10%. Take this important decision to lower the tax rates for hairdressers, gyms, beauty salons and sports facilities; raise a fair and important discount and lower the tax rates from 21 % to 10 %. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u80	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. No amendments have been tabled. Let's start setting positions. Firstly, the Joint Group. Mrs. Fernández. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. I take the floor to position the Galego Nationalist Block in relation to this motion tabled by Unió and defended by Mr Sánchez i Llibre, because our group has on several occasions presented initiatives to urge the Government to reduce VAT specifically to hairdressers. We are well aware that the increase in VAT in 2012 was not only detrimental to this economic sector of our society, but also to others such as flowers and ornamental plants - fortunately on this issue has already rectified the Government -, culture and many others as the case just commented by Mr Sánchez i Llibre of the gymnasiums. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this motion for the latest data provided by the hairdressing industry itself, which is being mobilised very actively throughout the Spanish State, but I am particularly interested in mentioning the mobilization that took place in Galicia in June and which is no less so. When the government decided to increase VAT on these economic activities to 21% it said it wanted to activate the economy. What he has done is to deactivate it, because the effects this increase has had on these sectors have been totally devastating, especially in employment. More than 13,000 hairdressers have closed in the Spanish State since this increase in VAT was introduced; this means 30% of the total employment in this sector, nothing more and nothing less than 34,000 workers, but mainly workers. Therefore, we do not understand how the Government is precluding itself in maintaining such a high tax on a sector that is also affecting the submerged economy because many people who have become unemployed are seeking life by further affecting the regulated sector that pays its corresponding taxes. I repeat, we do not understand how the Government does not take the decision to reduce VAT to the hairdressing sector, although what the Government should be facing is a change in VAT for all economic sectors where the increase in VAT in 2012 was such a burdensome issue and had such a negative impact on their employment. Consumption - the Government must at some point give such data - has not been able to increase the collection by the increase of VAT in these sectors and, instead, has achieved an elimination of employment, a precarious job situation and a situation as unfortunate as that which has denounced the sector manifesting itself in that unit which has been achieved specifically in Galicia by all small entrepreneurs, self-employed in many cases, in the hairdressing sector. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in favour of the motion tabled by Unite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly I am speaking to say that our group will support this initiative by the Unito Group, we will vote in favour because it is a request for justice that the Catalan representative makes. It is fair because, like other sectors such as culture, we have argued that it currently has excessive VAT, that it is not benefiting economic activity at all, it is more, it is restricting and it is withdrawing the activity precisely because that VAT is exceeding the price limits that can be set at that time. In this case we are also talking, as Mr Sánchez i Llibre said, about the real economy, about a very important economic activity in a social stratum of all that is that of hairdressers, beauty salons and gyms. Moreover, it is a very sensitive activity to precariousness, that is, it is an activity in which the loss of employment is very easy and I think we should take care of it because it is accessible to very young people and, precisely if the clientele starts to descend because it cannot afford to pay those prices and that makes that activity withdraw, those people will lose their jobs. Mr Sánchez i Llibre has said that there are 70,000 people - I don't know if it's exactly that number, but the studies so encrypt it; it's a very important amount - people who would lose their jobs if they were to follow the economic activity that is coming down in these hairdressers, beauty salons and also in gyms. He said it's a young job, especially the one that stays and we have to take care of it because it's very important. Finally, it is a question that we have asked ourselves many times when we debated VAT in the cultural sector. The Government has not yet shown us that this increase in VAT has benefited, raised, been positive in some way and that it has compensated for this increase in VAT. It is against consumption and it is precisely the citizens who are unable to consume, those who stop consuming and this automatically causes that economic activity to recede and that in many cases the economy that is immersed in activities that are as easy as the economy that is submerged can be in the hairdressing sector. The dignity of this activity and of these professionals requires more activation of consumption; it is very easy for us all to say: I will do it at home, but this economic activity needs to encourage consumption and for that it has to lower VAT because otherwise, prices will not be available to many citizens who are going through it very badly as a result of this crisis. We will therefore support this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group shares all the arguments put forward here by those who have spoken before me. There is a problem with the fact that the increase in VAT and the crisis - although I do not know very well the causal order of the two - are wreaking havoc on sectors such as hairdressers, the sports facilities sector, gyms, but there are many others that have not been mentioned here; reference has been made to that of culture but we could talk about mechanical workshops and so many others. In this respect, we cannot ignore the fact that, by sharing the arguments put forward here, the fact that applying for a reduction in VAT for the hairdressing and gymnastics sector and not for other sectors of self-employed or small and medium-sized entrepreneurs automatically creates discrimination. Our group proposes not only to restrict this reduction to these cases of hairdressing, gymnastics and sports facilities; our group proposes that a revision of VAT rates be made because just as they were raised - Mr Montoro has already given us a thorough explanation before that the economy is going very well, and the proof is that he has already anticipated that they will lower the IRPF - why not enter into a debate on the revision of the average and reduced VAT rates. Just as an increase was made, we could enter the debate, but not for hairdressers and gyms anymore, but to support precisely the same arguments that are being made: first, combat the submerged economy; secondly, help economic recovery; and thirdly, it is not discriminatory of some sectors towards others. Why don't we put it that way? For these reasons our parliamentary group is going to abstain. We have reason to support the proposal, but we also have arguments to consider that it is an alicorta proposal and that the real debate should have been raised. That is what we are raising here, the debate on the revision of the average and reduced rates of VAT. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez i Llibre, you will agree with me that you bring us a real problem, but it raises a way of dealing with it that is frankly questionable. We have a problem in some economic sectors, one of them is the hairdressing sector, another could be that of sports centres, which are under very strong pressure, which is the combination of the economic crisis and the loss of purchasing power of citizens to achieve consumption of these goods combined with an increase in the pressure through VAT. You will accept that this is not the way to approach tax treatment. Quite unfortunate is the way in which the Government has done it, an increase in VAT for certain products that have no logic whatsoever. I had the opportunity the other day to raise the absurdity of, for example, the differential treatment of what cultural goods are and the different type of VAT, which nobody knows exactly why, and now you are bringing us specifically a proposal from sectors that have been clearly affected by the crisis and the rise of VAT, but we do not know why these and not others. We don't know why hairdressers, why gyms and sports centers, why beauty centers and why in one package these three and not others. Why, for example, not the dentist, basic health services? The truth is, I don't want to ask why you chose these because I don't want to go into anecdotal elements either. I suggest that we address this issue in a different way. I suggest that in this House, given the fury that has given this Government to keep us throughout all that remains of the legislature by making bills, let us rationally address the treatment of VAT for all these services and do so rationally. Perhaps we will conclude that what is happening to hairdressers, for example, is not only a problem of the rise in the VAT rate to 23%, but a much more serious problem, of how the impact of the economic crisis and the loss of purchasing power of citizens has profoundly affected those groups which are also labour-intensive or how it turns out that the result of government policies those people working in hairdressers, in many autonomous cases, have become not self-employed, but self-employed, and how there is at present a phenomenon through which certain vocational training schools for camouflaged employment offer services in a clearly immersed economy, which are characteristic of hairdressers practically not charging or charging very little. It's a shame, because being very unfair the situation that hairdressers are currently experiencing, you bring it to us in frankly unhelpful conditions. I do not know whether at this stage of the legislature it is possible to introduce some element of rationality into the debates of this Congress; I fear not, and it is only necessary to see the batibull that is producing this debate. In any case, sincerely, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, the government has made a mess of its tax reform by addressing VAT in the way it has, and I do not think that is the solution. I feel obliged to ask them how they can combine and put together all their proposals. One day we come from the members of the Democratic Union of Catalonia and they ask us Monday, Wednesday and Friday to lower VAT to hairdressers and beauty salons. Another day we come to lower VAT to flower producers. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, which are even days, come from the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and ask us to strengthen public policies in attention to many collectives. I guess then you two meet on Sundays and go to mass to confess. That is the only thing that can explain why they are so inconsistent in their proposals. In spite of this, and in order to avoid that there may be instrumentalizations of our vote, we may even vote for them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u89	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government during this term has not only missed the great opportunity to carry out a tax reform that allows for a simple, efficient and fair tax system, but has also taken decisions that have greatly harmed intensive employment sectors. They have been decisions that have not been accompanied by a prior impact analysis on the affected economic sectors and that have resulted in devastating results for many of them. This explains the failure to meet VAT revenue expectations for 2013 in the budgets in the face of the rise in rates. In fact, the tax agency's explanation is that the rise in rates was largely offset by a further fall in final VAT expenditure. Therefore, in view of the results, some of the VAT increases have not been fair or justified, such as the transfer of certain services from the reduced rate to the general rate. The Government of the People's Party has unnecessarily punished sectors which, according to the European directive, could continue to tax the reduced rate, and has done so without reasonable reason to advise a change of rate at such a harsh time of crisis; and the most cruel and repulsive thing is that it did so at the same time as amnestying the defrauders. In this sense, one of the worst sectors, apart from culture, has been the hairdressing industry, which is small businesses made up of one self-employed person and one or two workers. This is a sector which has suffered a double blow: first, that of the crisis and, then, that of the government of the People's Party by raising the tax rate from 8 % to 21 %; nothing more and nothing less than 13 points of rise. With the economic crisis many hairdressers were in a delicate position, as the purchasing power of the citizens was reduced. They were the ones who immediately noticed the effects of the crisis with the downflow of customers and the lower number of services performed; a situation that already forced them to adjust margins by lowering prices. The very important increase in VAT represented a new blow that has represented the definitive collapse of many of them, precipitating them either towards closure or towards the economic inviolability of an activity that they continue to carry out as their only source of income to survive. As a result, the general figures on the sector are very worrying, as their representatives point out, as there has been a sharp contraction in employment, a significant fall in turnover and a reduction in establishments, causing a strong indirect collateral impact in other sectors of the industry related to it. In our view, the hairdressing sector is not only relevant from the numerical point of view - which is very important - but also from the social and human point of view. It is a sector for the most part of small business women and women entrepreneurs who still hold a large number of jobs today and, in addition, it is one of the few sectors that are dominated by women in general. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, aware of the heavy blow to this group and in the same way as the group proposing this motion, has also presented initiatives in Congress and in the Senate calling for the Government to rectify the hairdressing sector. In addition, we consider it relevant to analyse and incorporate the VAT reduction for the services sector for individuals who practice sport, a measure that is justified because it is in line with the provisions of the European directive, because it can prevent further loss of jobs and establishments and, most importantly, it can be an incentive to practice sport, an activity that is very good at preventing disease and which can lead to lower health and pharmaceutical expenditure in the future. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the parliamentary term and it is up to us to take stock, a balance which the Government knows is not positive. That is why we are now announcing an accordion policy, which clearly interprets as the great excuse to justify their electoral failure. Accordion because, first, they push up taxes and, now, they intend to correct and go back by presenting themselves as the great saviors. That is, and not another, the cause for which the president intends in the last of the legislature's rebates to incorporate hasty promises into a new budget that guarantees him to stage his story and thus build a well-armed argumentary for his electoral campaign, which is a great irresponsibility. We have already heard Minister Montoro apologize for the tax hike, but that is not enough because there has been a lot of sacrifice and a lot of pain. So we do not ask you to rectify in the face of an economic improvement, we ask you to rectify for the mistake made with these sectors, just as you have done with others. I'm done. Reducing the tax rate to certain sectors such as hairdressers does not repair so much suffering, so many job losses, but it can regain hope for an activity that is the only livelihood that makes the life project viable for many people, especially women, as they represent 85% of this sector. We shall therefore vote in favour of this motion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Mr Gallego has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Mrs. Cunillera Mestres utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Cunillera tells me I'm going to talk about the inheritance received. I suppose it bothers you that we talk about the inheritance you've received. But we must talk about the inheritance received, especially when the decisions taken in relation to this VAT have something to do with the inheritance received, because that measure was taken when it was taken and you left the country as you left it. Why don't you, wherever you rule, apply this magic formula that you explain to us today? They say we have to lower taxes, we have to reduce debt, we have to reduce the deficit and we have to increase public spending. But you where you rule have not found the magic formula that allows this equation to square. We met in 2011, and although it bothers you I have to tell you, with a country that was as it was. In Spain there was talk of corralito, in Spain there was talk of financial collapse, there was talk of black men, there was talk of an intervention to the whole Spanish economy. To prevent the collapse we had to take a set of measures that were difficult. We do not take them for obligation, but we take them for devotion. What'd they do? These weeks we can see, among other things, what they have served. We can imagine what would have happened in this country if this Government had not acted seriously and responsibly. Just take a look at some images of the desperate Greek retirees for not being able to get their pension out of the bank. This scenario was avoided in Spain thanks to the People's Party and a serious policy that has allowed Spain to move towards economic recovery. We had to raise taxes, we had to make complicated reforms. Now you tell us: lower all taxes. As Mr Coscubiela said, every week we are told to lower that tax, lower that tax and lower that tax. [[Rumors]] You would have liked us to have taken no action in the face of the financial collapse that we are experiencing. If I may say so, they would have liked us to have marked a Varufakis, let Spain make no decision, let us be carried away and wait for the financial collapse to take place, so that, perhaps, the problems of the Spaniards would have been greater than they have been. We had to raise VAT in this sector of hairdressers, beauty salons and gyms; we had to do it. Instead, we were able to save super-reduced VAT; we saved VAT from tourism; we saved pensions; we saved the welfare state as a whole: health, social services and education and unemployment benefits. But we are concerned that, in its day, we would have to raise VAT to this sector which - and I agree with that - knows that it has gone wrong during these years of crisis, since 2007. And not only this sector; this sector and so many other sectors of our country. [[The Rumors Continue]] That is why the Government of the People's Party is going to promote fiscal reforms, to the extent that economic growth is being consolidated in Spain. Today, fortunately, the Spanish economy is already growing by around 4%. We are Europe's first country in economic growth. We are the first country in Europe to create jobs and, today, there is hope in Spain; there is a way that if we keep Spain out of the crisis in which some have put us. We have taken some measures which will also benefit hairdressers, beauty salons and gyms; measures such as the considerable reduction of the IRPF; we have applied the flat rate of EUR 50 per month, from which 620,000 people, 620,000 entrepreneurs have benefited; we have recently reduced the deductions to 15% for the self-employed, which is going to mean an injection of liquidity for the self-employed - many in the sector we are discussing today - by EUR 350 million. These sectors will therefore benefit from these tax improvements. That the proposal should be made by Convergence and Union, seems ridiculous to me, since the Convergence and Union Government has created, over the last three years, fifty new rates in Catalonia. The Catalans suffered the highest autonomous portion of the IRPF; it has ended with all the bonuses in the inheritance tax and, at best, they do so to hide some of their star measures. Today, Catalans, for example, we pay 7 euros to give us a duplicate of the health card; or, in a few days, Catalans will pay a fee to connect to the Internet. Maybe that's why they present these kinds of measures. [[Rumors]] We are convinced that efforts have been worthwhile. We had to make tough decisions. There is still much to be done, but fortunately Spain is on the right path and I think that there is a future in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well, Antonio]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Gallego. In two minutes we started voting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u93	We will proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution. First of all, in place of Don Gaspar Zarrías, I ask Dona María de las Mercedes Gámez García if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u94	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u95	In place of Don Manuel Chaves, I ask Don Salvador de la Encina whether he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u96	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u97	In place of Dona Carmen Montón, I ask Don Josep Antoni Santamaría i Mateo if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u98	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u99	Dona María de las Mercedes Gámez, don Salvador de la Encina and don Josep Antoni Santamaría have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u100	Voting of the amendment to the full refund of the bill for partial amendment of Law 58/2003 of 17 December, Tax General, submitted by the Socialist Group. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 316 plus 1 telematic vote, 317; in favour, 129; against, 174 plus 1 telematic vote, 175; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u101	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u102	We now vote on the request made by the Socialist Group for the House's assent to this bill. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 1 telematic vote, 323; in favour, 148; against, 173 plus 1 telematic vote, 174; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u103	It will not be dealt with by the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u104	Vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft organic law regulating access to and publicity of certain information contained in the rulings on tax fraud submitted by the Socialist Group. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 1 telematic vote, 323; in favour, 126; against, 181 plus 1 telematic vote, 182; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u105	It's rejected. - DRAFT LAW CONCERNING EXTRAORDINARY CREDITS AND A SUPPLEMENT OF IMPORTED CREDIT OF 856.440.673.35 EUROS IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BUDGET, TO ACCEPT THE PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAMMES AND TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2015 OF 14 MAY]] [[File number 121/000159]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u106	Bill granting extraordinary credits and a credit supplement of EUR 856,440,673.35 in the budget of the Ministry of Defence to cover the payment of obligations relating to special arms programmes and the performance of other activities of the department. There are three amendments with alternative text and we will vote on them separately. Firstly, an amendment tabled by the Joint Group, by Mr Tardà. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 321 plus 1 telematic vote, 322; in favour, 21; against, 181 plus 1 telematic vote, 182; abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u107	It's rejected. Amendment to the whole with alternative text also, tabled by the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 1 telematic vote, 323; in favour, 35; against, 175 plus 1 telematic vote, 176; abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u108	It's rejected. We now vote on the third amendment to the whole with an alternative text, tabled by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 1 telematic vote, 323; in favour, 36; against, 176 plus 1 telematic vote, 177; abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u109	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u110	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the Third Protocol amending the Convention on Cooperation in Defence between the Kingdom of Spain and the United States of America of 1 December 1988 and its amendments, done at Washington on 17 June 2015. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 318 votes in favour, 301 votes in favour, 302 votes against, 14 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u111	It will be processed directly and in one reading.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u112	Motion following the inquiry of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i ́d Unió on the need for the Government to consider the immediate reduction of VAT to hairdressers and services provided to individuals who practice sport or physical education in gyms and sports facilities, an activity closely linked to the improvement of health habits. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 145 against, 169 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-07-CD150707.u113	The motion is rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and forty minutes of the night.
