ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u1	The meeting was resumed. Mr Azpiazu has the floor to defend the amendment to the general state budgets tabled by the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, Mr Montoro, as you know, we should not be in this Parliament debating the amendments to the general state budgets for the year 2016. It is atypical to do so at this time of year, in the middle of August. We will be able to discuss many issues of economic or political interest, but certainly not next year's budgets. To present and try to approve the budgets for the next year would, as you know perfectly well, be for the next government to come out of the ballot box and for the new House to be set up after the general elections, a House whose majorities and distributions will differ substantially from the current ones. It is up to a government to present four budgets and no more and you want to approve the fifth of this cabinet. You justify this by saying that you are going to work until the last day and that an approved budget clarifies the expectations of economic operators. To work until the last day is fine - we must all do so - but we all also know, including the economic actors, that the new government will be forced to redo the project completely, either because the ideology and priorities of the next government are different or because the People's Party has to govern with others and seek consensus and agreement, which will also force them to make profound changes. Moreover, as you know better than anyone, Minister, once the budget has been approved, its modifications are difficult and management is not easy. That is why from the Basque Group we recommend that you withdraw the project and keep it in your ministry, in case the next minister wants to take advantage of it. I know that you are not going to do so because you have made a commitment to approve it, and that is why, Minister, the Basque Group considers that its approval constitutes a democratic fraud in every way, a fraud against all the citizens who can suffer from a budget approved by a government and a parliamentary group that does not represent them, because, Mr Montoro, you are not going to govern and, if you do, you will under no circumstances have the absolute majority of what you currently enjoy. This is what the CIS says and what everyone knows, because in that direction all surveys point to. There are even those who call their actions unconstitutional and not without lack of reasons, but, even if not, what is legally possible is not always politically acceptable. The most honest thing, Mr Montoro, would have been, given the situation, to convene the elections as soon as possible, to form a stable government as soon as possible, to approve a budget as soon as possible and to manage it by the government and the majority that citizens want. Why then do they strive to do things against common sense? At this point I think that almost everyone knows the answer, because in this legislature economic policy has become a roller coaster with permanent climbs and falls. In fact, the enormous paradox is that they claim the principle of stability to justify this draft budget when precisely their policy has been characterized from the very beginning on the contrary. A budget as an economic policy tool must involve a dialogue with the needs of society and a dialogue with the economy within a framework of temporary consistency. But what his Government's action shows is that its only consistency is electoral consistency or, rather, electoral consistency. Knowing the gravity of the deficit, they proposed tax cuts in their election campaign to deny them nothing more than coming to power with a sharp rise in taxes. They now propose a carousel of tax breaks that are not only unfair because they are directed specifically at the most privileged ones, but they represent an electoral kick ahead to the fundamental problems of society, something that is even acknowledged in a paladin way in some cases as important as that of Social Security, and that after almost emptying the hut of pensions. In the end, it is clear that the budget and its policy not only do not have temporary consistency, but also do not have social or even economic consistency, because, as I will then argue, it does not aim at strengthening potential growth in the medium term, but at enjoying a recovery as vigorous as it is unsustainable in time. It is clear that this timeless budget proposal enables them to deploy an important campaign of electoral communication that their Government has been carrying out for a long time. They want to convince the public that recovery is theirs because it happens at the end of the legislature. On the same argument, Minister, they could have also claimed the recession of 2013. But don't make any illusions. Demoscopic studies tell us that at least two thirds of public opinion does not believe in the relationship between its policies and growth. And what I'm talking about is that with the second part of your report, which includes tax cuts, wage increases and all kinds of promises for the upcoming legislature, that same opinion is going to understand that you can fool everyone all the time. They want to sell us the idea that this is the only serious and responsible budget that can be made and that you are the only ones who can manage it; that there is a clear risk that another government may not follow the strict rules of austerity together and that it can also reverse others in some reforms advanced by you. And they tell us: if that happens, economic growth and employment generation are put at risk. Come on, either win the PP by absolute majority, or return to disaster, crisis and unemployment. Gentlemen of the People's Group, who are already older, do not intend to inoculate poisoned messages prefabricated by their electoral advisers. They take on the new reality, that of political change and try to bring their ideas honestly into that new scenario. The legislative parade is going to end by approving the projects with their only votes, by atypically legislating through popurists of different laws, royal decrees-laws, by invading competences in an effort to re-centralize the autonomous state. The last of the countless examples is still being processed in the Senate. The People's Group, through numerous amendments in the Commission in the form of provisions incorporated in the Congress of Deputies into the draft law on the legal regime of public administrations - of its competence, Minister - has amended, among other laws, the Competition, the one on the budgetary regime, the General Tax Act, the General Subsidy Act, etc. This usual way of operating from his Government is absolutely entrepreneurship, in addition to dubious constitutionality. They amend laws that have nothing to do with the draft in question, avoid preceptive legality reports such as that of the Council of State, avoid parliamentary debate because the unknown cannot be discussed and invade all the competences they want without talking or agreeing with any parliamentary group and this is called a democratic procedure. This, Mr Montoro, is a constitutional fraud in every rule, and they have done so throughout the legislature, but this is going to end, this has to end because consensus and dialogue are going to be fortunately necessary. They should also be done to prepare the 2016 draft budgets. That is why I ask you, Mr Montoro, to respect the rules of democracy and withdraw the draft budgets from this House, not only for political reasons such as those mentioned, which are crucial to our parliamentary group and therefore discourage their adoption; there are also other reasons, there are also deep economic reasons, Minister. At this point in the year, when you have drawn up the project you did not have enough economic information to do so with the minimum guarantees. That is perfectly apparent in the analysis of budgetary documentation. Most or many of the economic data used relate to the first quarter of the year and this is insufficient to produce a macroeconomic picture with the necessary guarantees. They had to force the numbers a lot to make their predictions, and that was unnecessary. And if the macroeconomic picture is inconsistent, the calculations of income and expenditure that are supported by it are also inconsistent. Minister, in fact, your economic forecasts are already being questioned. In their estimates, the economy is forecast to grow by 3.3% and 3% next year. They also estimate that employment will also increase by 3 %, from which it follows that productivity per person employed will not change next year, i.e. it will be zero. What this model of growth points to, the model of growth that the Government is committed to, is a model of low productivity, low wages, a precarious labour model and in which inequalities are to continue to increase, in short, a model that our group rather dislikes. Nevertheless, the unemployment rate will be around 20%. We will follow the queue or, if you prefer, the head of the countries with the highest unemployment. I will then briefly stop to analyse the reasons, but first of all I would like to point out that not only is the BBVA reviewing the growth of the Spanish economy downwards, but the International Monetary Fund itself has thrown out a jar of cold water to which the Minister of Economy has tried to diminish importance, in the opinion of the Basque Group in a rather unlucky way. The International Monetary Fund estimates that the economy will grow by 2.5% next year instead of 3%, but it also points out that this growth rate will be lower each year, at 2% in 2018 and not the 3% that its government points out. Distances will widen, so that neither unemployment will diminish as much as the government tells us, nor the public deficit will be able to fall at the pace desired and demanded by the European Union in the Stability Pact. We therefore consider it necessary to agree with the European Commission on this higher level of deficit, this greater margin for addressing the public expenditure that is most urgently needed. In addition to the data commented on, what must lead us to a calm reflection and to moderate the excessive optimism that derives from its economic discourse is that the International Monetary Fund is telling us that the medium-term growth potential is low, which is lower than the Government estimates. This, on the one hand, questions, Minister, the effectiveness of many of the reforms carried out by your Government, and that is important to bear in mind, and, on the other hand, reminds us of the bill in economic terms that we are going to pay for the sharp declines in public investment and in R & D spending over the course of the legislature. Public investment, i.e. chapters 6 and 7 of the budget, both real investment and capital transfers, stands at EUR 14,451 million, 11.4% less than this year, which in turn had been falling year after year. Today, public investment has not only not increased, but is now the third part of what it was at the beginning of the crisis. The same applies to R & D+i investments. Instead of using these variables to boost economic activity, growth and the potential of the economy, they have sacrificed themselves in the name of sacrosanct austerity and, of course, it has a cost in economic terms. Or do you believe, Minister, that a reduction in the stock of such brutal public capital would not pass us any bills? Yes, and that is precisely what the International Monetary Fund is saying. And, of course, if the growth potential is reduced and we have high unemployment rates, or we create low productivity jobs or we set ourselves up in unsustainable unemployment rates for many years, and that is a real drama. Citizens should know that with their economic and labour model, with the current economic inequality, the problem of unemployment, precariousness, low wages, etc., which will also force many of our young people to leave and the elderly unemployed not to find an opportunity, will unfortunately be part of our reality and our productive and social fabric. This is not an electoralist, is it, Mr Montoro? But it is the harsh reality. On these issues it is necessary to discuss, reflect and propose solutions, from humility and not coming up with a tenth or so of the gross domestic product. On the other hand, we must be aware that the economic data in our environment are not flattering either. The European Union does not start, it is virtually stagnant. The eurozone confirmed its slowdown in the first quarter. There are timid advances from Italy and Germany and paron from France. This context does not, of course, facilitate sustained and sustainable economic growth in the Spanish economy. Similarly, we need to be aware that much of the positive factors driving growth are exogenous, that can vary at any time and that we have no chance of influencing. We are talking about monetary policy, low interest rates, the current price of oil and raw materials, as well as the contribution of the euro to the dollar, among other issues. There are also other elements that generate uncertainty about future economic growth. There is the march of the Chinese economy, which can affect many strategic companies operating in that country; the outcome of the third Greek rescue, which is still very uncertain and a number of other issues, let alone the policy of the European Union which obliges cuts and more cuts with the negative consequences that result from this. You are aware, Minister, of the position of our group with regard to the policies of overuse of austerity. We have talked about it and discussed it on many occasions and today I am not going to discuss the same arguments. In last year's budget debate, I gave him a good time. I would just like to point out that we do not yet see anywhere the announced Juncker Plan, which, according to the European Commission, would mean a change in the direction of economic policy, thus recognizing in some way the failure of the exclusive use of austerity policies. However, Minister, I do not want to deny the current reality. The Spanish economy is growing, employment is being created, and we value it positively, but it will recognise me, however, that, despite the improvement, an unemployment rate of more than twice the average in Europe and above 22% is not like to breastfeed, up to eight years after the start of the crisis. It clearly reflects that we are still in the deep economic crisis and that we have only come out of the recession, that the future points to moderate growth, that the uncertainties are great and that they can affect us intensely. Recognize it. Why don't you recognize him? I imagine that it is because it is not part of your strategy of putting politics at the service of electoral interest, for that, Minister, that reality does not spoil a beautiful headline. You go on, you go wrong, with your electoral propaganda. Thus, it offers a 1% wage increase to officials who have endured the freezing of their salaries over the past few years. It also promises to pay them back 25% of the 2012 payment that was abolished and the remaining 50% for the next financial year. It also promises an increase of 0.25 % to pensioners, in application of a law approved by you, as if you were giving them something exceptional, when, moreover, those same pensioners will see their purchasing capacity reduced because prices will rise above 1 %. Similarly, when he presented, together with the officials of his team, the draft budgets in this House, he advanced future tax cuts and even dared to set for the future - I imagine for the next parliamentary term - a target of public expenditure in relation to GDP below the current one. In order not to alarm the most vulnerable, he hastened to point out that this would in no case mean a deterioration of public services and that it is possible to maintain social spending per capita with this policy, you said. In short, a reduction in public revenue and expenditure in relation to GDP. That, Mr Montoro, is called jibarization of the public sector or abandonment by the public sector of the plots of activity for which it is responsible today. After listening to these statements, I have to acknowledge that it has given me some concern and concern. What public sector model does the People's Party propose? What future awaits them with regard to public benefits, pensions, education, health care or dependency? And how do you plan to boost productive activity, investment or innovation? Minister, on page 39 of the yellow book that you and I know perfectly well - you are certainly much better than me - you can read that income and expenditure on GDP represent in the Spanish case 37.8 and 43.5 respectively, far from 45.1 and 48.1 which are on average in the European Union. The percentages of the Spanish economy are similar to those of Latvia, Estonia and Ireland and are far from the central countries of the eurozone, let alone the Scandinavian countries, whose model I recognise the Basque Group likes. And you propose to further reduce the public sector as a model for the future. That model, Mr. Montoro, we don't like it. From the Basque Group we believe that basic public services must be served precisely from the public point of view in order to guarantee freedom and equal opportunities. In our view, we should go against what you propose, moving towards the European average and moving further away from the queue. Why do you propose this then, Mr Montoro? As I say to you, what we are proposing is an increase towards the average in order to preserve essential public services, to recover the long way in infrastructure and investment and thus raise the potential for economic growth and also to guarantee the future of public pensions. Instead of squandering the resources of the Reserve Fund that have accumulated with the effort of the workers, when the benefits were higher than the contributions, what should be done is to unburden Social Security with the cost of employment policies that so liberally charge the system. It is also true that there may be the possibility that, increasingly over time, the budget, i.e. taxes, will be taken over those benefits of a non-strictly contributory nature that are paid today by the Social Security, but in a gradual process with absolute guarantees for the collectors, who are already alarmed, as in the case of widows - and we are not surprised - in view of the rickets with which the government party contemplates the fiscal scenario. Otherwise, in view of demographic trends, we will be re-proposed for pension reform and reduction, which are already at minimum levels. That, Minister, is what we would like to talk about and not about simpleties and slogans that sound good, but that many of them are poisoned and that you are using in this pre-election campaign. The problems and the substantive discussions are to deal with them. If they did, they wouldn't have to promise one thing before the election to do the opposite at the time of ruling. We call for coherence, less improvisation, more consensus among parliamentary groups and less electoral propaganda that makes this difficult. In conclusion, Minister, I must necessarily refer to the chapter relating to your Government's commitments in relation to investments in Euskadi. If we consider only real investments, which the State makes directly, we see a year more than barely 0,4 % of the total. They are around EUR 20 million, a figure that needs no further comment and remains virtually constant year after year. It therefore reflects his Government's lack of commitment to Euskadi. The only project, Mr Montoro, your Government's only investment commitment in Euskadi is that of the Basque Railway, which is being implemented by the infrastructure manager ADIF. We have had to hear over these days and weeks that the amount budgeted for 2016 has increased considerably. However, as I will try to prove, this amount is not going to allow the works to be completed by the deadline, throughout 2019, and this is what we are really worried about and what we want to denounce. Minister, if the budget forecasts - we refer to the budget of the railway Y - include an amount of 291 million euros, that is 31% higher than the budget forecast of 2015, and are budgeted commitment appropriations for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 of 580, 565 and 267 million euros respectively, above the appropriations that the budgets of the year 2015 envisaged for the years 2017 and 2018, this budget for the Y is a reflection of the moment we live, I insist, that is nothing other than the electoral moment. A few months after the elections, they are trying to show us that their commitment to this infrastructure is serious. But the political and institutional commitment and public management in an infrastructure of this nature, which transcends electoral time, is not measured by the sole purpose of increasing at the last minute, fast and running, the budget lines for the Basque Y, as evidenced by this budget. The Basque Y is a project of the trans-European network of priority rail network for the European Union and since the first agreement that endorses this condition, already in 1994, Europe has established as objective that this network of railway connection of the European Atlantic axis should be operational in 2010. It must therefore be made clear that the Spanish State has not fulfilled the European mandates for this trans-European network. It is being implemented, but with a substantial delay in what the repeated agreements have been. And here I must say that it is not only the governments of the PP that have responsibility, but also the various governments of the Socialist Party that, from an archaic and centralist perspective, shared by you, have prioritized investments with a radial conception - everything comes and goes through Madrid - above addressing the suppressions of railway borders, as set out in the priorities of European projects. However, this parliamentary group has always, as you know, been behind the momentum and development of this infrastructure, in the very genesis of the project, in the agreement to entrust the Basque Government to the construction of the Gipuzcoan branch, and in this Parliament, with intensity, in all the initiatives that have taken place. We have always been concerned, and this House has witnessed, that the Government, and especially the Ministry, are planning for the development of the works and the implementation of the infrastructure. As a result of this insistence, we took the government's commitment that by 2019 it would be operational. Our parliamentary group is not going to allow this commitment to be breached, Minister. That is why we are concerned that the delay that these works carry - started, as you know, in 2008 - is the inertia that calls into question the objective of 2019. There are two key points that, depending on the management of the projects and works that are in charge of the ministry and ADIF, will be decisive in the fulfilment of the target date. On the one hand, the Bergara knot, and on the other, access to the cities. Since last June and July, ADIF has already awarded all the tranches, although most of them are not started. Our concern stems from the fact that the deadlines for the execution of the works range from 36 to 42 months. In addition, we are concerned that these works, all in tunnel and with great technical difficulty, have been awarded around half the tender price; the experience, Minister, shows us the difficulties this poses for the works to be carried out in the price and time frame set out in the award. The other point is access to cities. The budget proposal for 2016 provides for only EUR 5 million for each access to Gasteiz, Bilbao and Donostia. This amount will cover only studies and projects. As a result, these 2016 budgets do not contain sufficient budgetary appropriations for the start of the Y access works to the three stations, which warns us even more of the implementation of the start-up of the Y railway in 2019. Mr Minister, in conclusion, I have to summarise a few considerations for you. Firstly, as I said before, this is a priority trans-European network infrastructure on which the State is towing and with considerable delay in its implementation and implementation. In the face of Mr Rajoy's commitment to the Galician AVE, a firm commitment, there is no similar political behaviour in the case of this infrastructure. Secondly, the compromise is not simply achieved by raising the budget forecast to a few months before the elections. The development and progress of infrastructure must be measured by budget implementation and so far has not progressed at the necessary pace. Thirdly, the fulfilment of the commitment initiated by this group for the network to be operational in 2019 requires a serious, agile and rigorous management and administration of the works, which we do not see until now by the ministry and ADIF. There are sections of standing or semi-schedule works, which involve not only delays but the subsequent cost overruns. And fourthly and lastly, the development of projects and subsequent works of access to the three capitals is far from responding to a planning and consequent budgetary commitment that will lead to the railway Y being operational in 2019. Mr Montoro, as I have pointed out to you, you will understand that our parliamentary group, the Basque Group in Congress, has tabled this amendment in its entirety. The fraud against the citizens involved in the presentation of this project, which will be managed by another Government, the insufficient and fragile economic information available at this stage of the exercise, the lack of debate on substantive economic issues and the lack of commitment necessary to complete the project of the railway in the prescribed time are basically the reasons, for us more than enough, for the withdrawal of the project.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have resumed today the debate on the amendments to the General Budgets of the State as a whole. I have listened to the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, his economic spokesman, Mr Azpiazu, with all interest while defending his economic argument about how these new state budgets are being prepared for 2016. Today I remember explaining yesterday that the new budgets intend not to stop the powerful economic machine launched with the government's structural reforms throughout the legislature. That's the sense of budgets. They're a projection for the future. The Law on the General Budgets of the State is a very important law, but it is a law that can modify a political scenario, a different formation of the House in the next legislature. That is so objectively. There will be or there won't be, as you said. We'll see about that. You gave it for sure. I am referring not to change, but to the fact that there would be another political scenario, another composition of the House. We will see; that will be decided by the citizens. Even so, it is our task, our duty to explain at the end of the legislature what we have done - it is democratic accountability - with that trust deposit that formed a parliamentary majority in this House and formed a People's Party government for the second time in our democracy. In that accountability we must give an explanation, something I tried to do yesterday, with more or less fortune, because his lordship has described much of that intervention as a generation of headlines and the truth is that I making headlines is priceless. [[Laughter]] It is well known and recognized. To say at this point in my political experience that I make headlines... I know there are people who say that, a lot of political analysts who have to make a living every day, but to say that I make headlines... I make them worse and worse. [[Laughter]] On my political journey I try to explain myself, to do pedagogy, but I certainly did not just get it right. [[Laughter]] The truth is it's very difficult to do pedagogy and at this point in my life what I'm going to tell you. I've spent my entire life in the economy, with a lot of politics behind me, in the economy, in the economy, always making an economy. Sometimes very normal people reproach me: You only talk about GDP. And what is this? I'm told. You're right. What am I gonna talk about? For GDP this. And how can you be brilliant at talking about GDP? I don't know, I don't try, but I try to do pedagogy because it's very important, because this GDP is people's well-being, it's nothing less than whether people have money or not in their homes to get to the end of the month, especially whether people have jobs or not, whether we are a country with an international reputation for investing in Spain and in turn our companies can invest and export. [[Laughter]] It's very important, but I understand that what he likes are other things. This is what has the political condition and make use of this rostrum to explain these terms that are not easy to explain. I will remind you that yesterday I said that there is a structural change in the Spanish economy. There is. This is because it is the first time that our economy has grown above 3%, even at quarterly annualized rates of 4% in the second quarter of 2015, and it does so without inflation. This is the first time that this has happened and has to do with an international context. Of course, it has to do with an international context, of course, it has to do with a context of monetary policies, but we had understood that when monetary policy is very expansive it is inflationary and now we see that in our world, with fairly expansive monetary policies practiced by the European central banks in recent years, this is not so, that it does not actually translate into greater inflation, but to the contrary. The global economy is teaching us, because we also have very different supply arrangements than were the approaches just twenty or twenty-five years ago. There are new players, new players, new bidders in the world economy and it is very important that this be so, because that means that there are hundreds of millions of people who are participating in economic activity, who are generating income in those countries, in Asian countries and, of course, in Latin America and Africa, and it induces a new structure of product supply, of raw materials in the world economy. Therefore, that Spain is growing at the head of developed countries in inflation is a great novelty. Moreover - I explained yesterday - it has a very positive social effect: it makes millions of people whose income is the wage can have a better purchasing capacity if prices fall, even if it is moderate. Millions of pensioners can do so and businesses can also be more competitive, with which the phenomenon of combining high economic growth with zero inflation is a positive development that we are experiencing for the first time. We have done something in Spain to make it that way, that is, that our growth is higher than the average of the largest countries in our environment. Some say that we did not - we discussed it yesterday - that we have done nothing in Spain, but we will have done something. I also said that we were growing on domestic demand, that we are already growing totally on domestic demand. It is a growth that we have experienced in Spain, of course, and it means that the consumption of families is growing, it means that companies are investing at home, in equipment, in transport, that they are setting up new production elements and that they are investing in construction - it begins to restart construction -. Traditionally, when this happens - and that is what is happening to us as a country - our balance of payments is unbalanced, but that does not happen now; we continue to maintain a growth with very powerful domestic demand with exports in historical peaks. We had never exported 33 % of our gross domestic product - I will have to apologize for using this word, but it is that, if not, it is not understood -. Already cited the sectors: equipment goods - first export sector -, automotive, agri-food sector, chemistry, etc. All this has a lot to do with the productive structure of the Basque Country, it has a lot to do with that entrepreneurship Basque Country, it has a lot to do with the adaptation of that Basque Country really present in innovation, in R+D+i, it has a lot to do with some companies that are being updated. One cannot deny this and say that it is simply read in headings. Budget headings are very important, but also the application of them or the use of tax incentives, such as a tax on companies down to promote R & D+i - powerful tax incentive -, which is having an innovative positive effect on our productive fabric. That's changing the structure of our economy, and it's a novelty. The most important novelty - the third - is that it is the first time that all economic growth, not in real terms - as fortunately happened to us in the past - but nominal, is going to job creation. We needed that as a country to happen. That is why we need to grow more than other countries. What has caused that economic growth in nominal terms to go completely to job creation? Structural reforms. Why didn't you leave earlier, Mr. Azpiazu? Something's changed. Someone said we haven't changed anything, that we're the same. Man, we are the same, but time has passed on us and, although some of us are the same, we continue to learn economics, we continue to implement structural reforms that are committed and that their political group has supported in this House and in this legislature. Why not go up and say that these structural reforms are positive, if many of them have really been approved by you? Others have not supported them, but I will explain why they have not. Because when absolute majorities are set up, other groups look at you and say, "If I agree with what you are doing as a government, but since you already have absolute majority, do it with your group and I go behind and make my speech." That is a political position, of course, and that happens - what I will tell you - in the very life of our policy and I am sure that throughout the world. But it is also not positive, because we, as a government, in this legislature, with an absolute majority, have always tried to talk about everything, to negotiate all the important laws. We have achieved this in part and not elsewhere, but your honor will not deny that we have pursued this political dialogue throughout the legislature on the content of these absolutely fundamental structural reforms. What the budgets are doing is prolonging our own capacity to change our country's economy. It's a tight budget. You say: These are budgets that come on an electoralist basis. Why, if spending grows very moderately? Or doesn't it grow very moderately? The total projected expenditure on budgets is growing well below the growth of the economy in nominal terms. What do you mean? That this government does electoralism with the moderation of public spending? For we do electoralism, I recognize it from this rostrum. It is a way of doing serious and rigorous electoralism to tell Spanish society what suits it, that it is to moderate the growth of public spending in our country. Why? Because that's what's working and getting us out of the economic crisis. And within that public spending you have to select. That's rule. To govern is to select, from a model of economic growth to the content of a budget. What have we selected in this budget? Social spending. What are we preserving throughout this legislature? The financing of public services of the welfare State. That's exactly what we're doing. That is what justifies, as I explained yesterday, the increase in public debt. This explains why in Spain, having to make an adjustment and living very hard years in terms of job loss, social cohesion has worked, which is the risk of an economic crisis as long as the one we have experienced, of recessions year after year and therefore of job loss. What I want to say to you this morning, Mr Azpiazu, is that pensioners have to be completely calm because they have not lost purchasing power nor are they going to lose it. What this budget does is to give them guarantee that in Spain we will continue to raise pensions, guarantee that in Spain we will enable the instruments of the budget - i.e. taxes - to finance current and future pensions. We are going to promote that we work within the Toledo Pact, because it was not this Government that violated the Toledo Pact, it was the previous one. You would support positions of the previous Government, but we do not support them - that means that the Toledo Pact was not working - because the approach that was being taken did not seem right to us. What we want to do is to revitalize that Toledo Pact and, within it, we are proposing to study the new sources of financing for Social Security, the public pension system. We understand that we are going to a scenario where unemployment, understanding it as the people who lose their jobs - unemployment is much more than that, obviously, but I am talking about that unemployment - will go down as economic recovery strengthens, so we will have a saving. This does not mean that, through social expenditure, people who are in long-term unemployment should not also be cared for; the unemployed who have family burdens must also be cared for until they find jobs, as is already being done, with formulas, with funding, with social benefit mechanisms. The choice of these budgets is clearly the welfare state. It is true that we are renouncing other types of investment, but this renunciation is compatible with economic growth - economic growth is there - and also with Spain being increasingly accepted in terms of financing its public investment, as is the case with ADIF. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, Mr Azpiazu, ADIF could not renew the credits that were winning, because the markets were closed for everyone; less for the state, but paying interest rates such as those in 2012. The big difference is that now ADIF, as a public company that goes to markets, can be financed. This is what is making us sure that we can materialize infrastructure investment projects that are fundamental for the vertebration of the Basque Country, for the vertebration of Spain, as is the Basque Y - as you also say correctly, European project -. We already have a bid. The important thing is to have the financial resources; it is good to have will - something is something - but you have to have the money, the resources available. Today we have resources available, in the form of infrastructures that are perfectly catered for in that investment, as you can see. In regional investment, the state's investment is growing a lot; in the Basque Country, it is growing more than 30%. You questioned the economic forecasts. I will only remind you that in October 2013 the International Monetary Fund forecasted zero growth for Spain for the years 2014 and 2015. We've won the predictions, and that's what people are doing all over Spain; the Basques are doing it, the Basque entrepreneurs, who are teaching us all a lesson. And the Government has an obligation to lay the groundwork for what is already happening, with policies that the Government has empowered, to be able to plan for the future in a secure and reliable manner. As I said quite clearly in yesterday's debate, here you will be able to form the majorities you want, those composite majorities that have in the Basque Country their timely representation - it would be more lacking!-, voted by a part of Basque society, but with those majorities and with those political groups there is no investment, no confidence is generated, is it not? It is represented to a left, to a radical left, to an independenceist left, to a left that goes to what goes. Where are you going? I don't know. Of course to ruin the economy of the people, especially of the most modest and less economical people, as it is proving where it is and where it stands. With that economic philosophy, in this global world in which we are in the twenty-first century, there is no way to prosper, there is no way that these roots of social well-being that are behind this increase in GDP, because insecurity is generated, ladies and gentlemen. Certainty, security and trust are basic values for investment; if that fails, what fails, policy in global, and general terms. In this House you, the representatives of the PNV, are betting on tax reforms throughout the state, but we see that these reforms go ahead of what is done in the foreign tax estates. I therefore have to insist on this this morning, that they use forality to introduce more and more incentive elements of economic activity, to reduce taxes to grow. Our Government's model - by the way, it is the same as when we were a government the previous time - is that we have economic growth, and we understand that it is stimulated by tax cuts. We have also lowered corporate tax; I would remind you that this budget brings a 25 % general corporate tax reduction for next year, with reserve funds and capital funds so that companies pay even less taxes and lower their actual tax rate if they devote part of their profits to providing their own resources, to strengthening their financing. That's what we're doing and that's what comes in these budgets. You don't agree with that tax policy? We understand that it is an effective tool, as is being demonstrated, for economic growth. In those terms if we have to drag outland haciendas, happy to do so, we would miss more ; delighted that we really make that competition in the exercise of the Basque Economic Concert, which is, as its own name indicates, a law of concert, a law of agreement. [[Rumors]] I will also remind you that in this legislature we have renewed that Law on Economic Concert. We have been able to dialogue in political terms to the point of renewing it. That has happened with this law, by the way, also with outside haciendas led by Bildu, and we have done so with all the naturalness of our democracy. If that was there, it is because we have been able to understand and clear up incognites regarding the application of the Law of Economic Concert. Finally, it is interesting - this is already an old debate of his lordship - to see how when he occupies the rostrum in this trance - by the way, he has not supported any of the budgets that the Government has brought in in this legislature; I am not going to ask him to support them now for the year following this stage of the legislature, although I can ask him formally but if he has not supported any of them obviously he will not do so in the last one - he censures this commitment in the correction of the public deficit. I will remind you of what I have also told you repeatedly, not in this legislature, but when I was a minister in previous stages: if someone meets the budgetary balance, it is the PNV when he governs. Then why when you go up to this critical rostrum what you do at home? He does it at home and here, because we do it others, he criticizes it. [[Mr. Azpiazu Uriarte: I don't criticize you]] He criticises it and says that this is really a policy that is detrimental to economic growth. Not at all, Mr Azpiazu, because, if not, we will not be growing twice as much as the economies of our environment are doing. The public sector reform we are doing is positive, it is enabling public accounts to boost our economic growth. I will also acknowledge and clarify that we have had to make use of the basic regulation in this legislature as it had not really been done in previous stages of our democracy. Let us not confuse a very urgent need, as it was to deal with the most severe state fiscal crisis of modern times, with a re-centralization. There is no re-centralizing intention in the rules we are programming, none. We do not want to undermine the autonomous decision-making capacity at all. In fact, conflicts such as those we have experienced, since we are already entering the next stages, for example the replacement rate of public public service staff to 100 per cent, will prevent conflicts that we have had during this legislature regarding the allocation of places, for example in the Ertzaintza. The problem that we have had so far is over because we are already rehabilitating 100 per cent for the security forces of the State as a whole. It means that we are returning to normality, that there is no intention other than to rationalize the operation of our public administrations. I know your lordship disagrees. I know that it is a classic criticism, to understand us, of the nationalist parties that I want to dissipate with all roundness. There is no intention of the Government of Spain to re-centralize. We believe in the State of Autonomy, we develop the State of Autonomy, we deepen the State of Autonomy, and we also believe in the outland haciendas, which are a consubstantial part of our being, of our history. Everything that has been in our hand to develop that forality, obviously understanding it within the Spanish Constitution, also in times of great difficulty like those we have gone through, we have done so also in this legislature and we will continue to do so face the future simply because it is part of our conviction. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you've left me a little stunned: you've given me a long change, you've given me a kind of economy, you've told me about forality. It seems good to me, there are issues that seem good to me; what happens is that now is not the time to enter them. It has returned to yesterday's economic positions and arguments. I have not told you that the economy is not growing, I have told you that the economy is growing and that it is positive. I am saying that this growth, when you boast that all nominal growth goes to employment, is non-productive, and that has consequences for future economic growth. That is precisely what the International Monetary Fund is telling you and you, wrongly, do not want to realize. We're talking about a productive model. You have also said that pensions are guaranteed. Look, if they're going to grow by 0.25 % this year and prices are going to grow by 1 %, you don't have to be an economist or know about GDP to realize that they're actually going to lose purchasing capacity; pensioners know that, too. You tell me no, you won't lose. Well, yeah. Another thing is that you say no, but they're going to lose purchasing capacity. What are they going to change in the future model? That's what we're telling you. We'd like that. If what you are proposing is that the weight of the public sector is diminishing, it cannot be said that it will lower the weight of the public sector and then add that we will maintain and increase social spending. That's a real contradiction, and you'll tell me how. Words and paper endure everything, but reality is obsessive and hard. You have told me in relation to the Basque Y that it is a matter of priorities, yes, and that the ADIF needed funding, yes; but Galicia has been given stronger budget. That means that the Government has a priority that is Galicia vis-à-vis Euskadi, and I can understand it; but don't tell me that Euskadi is one of the Government's priorities. No, no, Galicia is more among its priorities and Euskadi is not, because we have been talking about this for a long time and I believe that all Basque citizens and those in this House expect the government to comply with the 2019 commitment. Why don't you take that commitment firmly? I already know that your commitment is not worth much now, or yes, as the Galician would say, in the sense that who knows who is going to be in the next legislature. I insist, however much you say that still don't change things, things are going to change for sure. He has answered almost nothing to me, and I am sorry because the questions I have raised are substantive; he also knew that he was not going to answer me. Mr Barreda said the day before yesterday in Euskadi: We are going to reject the amendment to the whole of the Basque Group. He said so without knowing what our arguments were, which I believe are strong enough to request this return. Minister, I would not like to go into excessive debates, but Mr Barreda also said that we raised this amendment as a whole as a matter of instability in order to get a Euskadi in Europe, Euskadi nation in Europe. Frankly, when I thought about the budget debate none of this had happened to me remotely; I think things had their weight and the arguments were consistent. It gives me the feeling, Minister, that what is happening is like what happened to that gentleman who was on the highway in the opposite direction, listening to the radio saying: there is a driver going in the opposite direction, and the driver said: one no, all of them. If everyone is proposing an amendment to the whole, Minister, do not simply reject them, coming up somehow and saying: no one is right. Think that some may have consistent and powerful arguments; arguments that I believe deserve reflection, especially in order not to err in economic policy for the future. I know that this budget is not going to come into force, I know that this budget is not going to be managed by the next government. They're gonna do it again, they're gonna change new forecasts. You say no, but every day there are economic data that would make the macroeconomic picture of budget figures reviewable. For the new government with new figures will make a new macroeconomic picture and new budgets. Therefore, do not discard many of the ideas that we are putting to you here. I am running out of time, and I also do not want to go into many more issues than those which, on the strict side of the budget, you have referred to. It gives me that we will not have much chance in the next budget debate, unless you announce that you are going to follow or something like that. However, our group, Mr Montoro, as you know, has always raised budgetary debates with strict seriousness, trying to analyse the issues rigorously and we have done this year after year, whether it be an election year or not, and we will certainly continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Azpiazu, I understand that I have responded to the essence of your amendment in its entirety because you have questioned the growth of the Spanish economy. He has come to say: we have many doubts about recovery. That is why I have explained to you that we are experiencing another kind of economic recovery in Spain, unprecedented; therefore, we all have to get used to living with it and managing it. By the way, it is loaded with positive elements, which are the ones that lead our economy, the Basque and that of the whole of Spain, to become increasingly competitive; therefore, the future is not that of low wages, of low-innovation companies, or of administrations that are of a size that crushes the economy. The new time, the new budget - it outlines it this way - is built on a scenario of sufficient economic growth to create between 500,000 and 600,000 jobs per year. This high enough growth opens the way for us to have an increase in public spending, but not to exceed that growth. Why shouldn't he get over it? Because if I did, we would have to have tax revenues that would exceed economic growth, and the risk is that that would nullify that growth. The high yield elasticity of tax revenues can nullify economic growth. That is the proposal being made by the Government and it is a rehearsed proposal. We already did, and that was when the economy in the Basque Country reached full employment. Or did the Basque Country not reach full employment? He had practically full employment when we were doing this policy for the whole of Spain. That is why this policy is perfectly compatible with guaranteeing the welfare State, but not with having a State dedicated to doing everything. That is not the concept of a State that we are defending, but a State that effectively fulfils its essential functions: from external representation to national defence, to citizen security, to the administration of justice - an absolutely fundamental element of the State, of the rule of law as well. That is the State, but the State is also the guarantor of income, which is the pensioners; a provider of public services that the private sector does not do in its entirety, as is the case in health and education; and of other social services, such as care for persons who because of their disability are not in the same conditions as the rest of the citizens. That is what a modern state does, and that is what we can do with these budgets that we are drawing up; that is what outside finances, which evolve in accordance with the national framework and the European framework, can do. I am therefore responding to your question and your amendment as a whole. What's the difference? In which I see more firmness in economic growth, in which I believe that with our laws in this legislature we have reinforced the growth potential of the Spanish economy, to the point of overcoming the forecasts of international bodies. Or haven't we gotten over them? We have overcome them, Mr Azpiazu, acknowledge it. We have improved them and it is positive that it happens because that means that we have before us a society that is capable of doing so, as has happened in the past. It is the people who are doing it, the entrepreneurs; this is the most positive face of the evolution we are experiencing. Otherwise, we are at the end of an electoral calendar. The legislatures last four years, in our democracy and in most of the democracies in our environment, but if everything we do is marked by the end of a legislature and we do not aspire to renew as a brand, as we represent, as the values we incorporate in that society for the next legislature, we would be telling the people that it was really wrong when it voted for the People's Party in 2011. There is nothing more natural than to present and report at the end of a parliamentary term and to aspire to a renewal of confidence. That is democracy and that is what draws attention to in political debates like this. They say he's an electoralist. What do you mean, he's an electoralist? Of course. He is an electoralist in the sense that there is a government - not the people who make it up - that has made effective policies to get Spain out of this crisis. This Government and its members aspire to these policies to continue. It is our duty to say that if there is a change of direction in these policies, we may lose ground. We have that obligation on our own, and we are going to do it, because it is our responsibility. What is taking us out of the crisis is the reduction of the public deficit and the containment of the country's debt. If we go back to the walks - here there are groups who are experts in doing so -, of course we will go back. [[Rumors]] If that happens, then let's not wonder what happened, what happened to me again. What's happened is that you've been betting on a debt policy; if you do that, you're going to have a crisis of trust. Whose? Of the creditors. That is why there are groups on the left who say that creditors must be sent to heaven. First they want to conquer the sky and then send the creditors there. Creditors are people who are going to say that yours needs to be recovered, which is normal. Indeed, those who deny that will be denying the very essence of the economic functioning and the democratic normality established in legality. There are forces that do so naturally but then do not practice it, because when they do, what happens to Greece, that a very left-wing government arrives and does not realize that it is going down in a few months nothing less than the banking sector. For he had to have realized and responsibly committed all the actions so that that would not happen. In Spain there has been a government that has carried them out by assuming the corresponding political costs and at the end of the legislature it has to address the society to explain it, but, I insist, also to inform it that since these policies are not followed in the future - not those people in the government, but those policies in the future - we will be able to have a setback to the initial box, because the creditors will not be trusted and, if they do not trust, they will not renew that debt and, if that debt is not renewed, to which we must go... The new budgets schedule a state resource for next year of 231 billion euros that we have to renew next year, 2016. Imagine those who have to buy us those public debt bonds were suspicious. Then the consequences would be that we would stop this process of economic recovery. I have to explain it naturally from the rostrum, it is my duty to do so, Mr Azpiazu; I am doing so. Then they'll say this is an electionist. It will be, but I believe that the argument is understood; within it it is economic, it is easily understood. We must insist that economic recovery has a door, and that is what this Government has used. The previous Government did not use it; it went out the other door, leaving the country without a budget, inflated, threw the towel because it was convinced that it was going to lose the elections. That is not the conviction of the present Government; we have to win the elections precisely in order to continue these policies, which are essential for the consolidation of economic recovery and we can say at the end of the next parliamentary term that Spain has faced its number one social problem, which is unemployment, and it has done so by guaranteeing the welfare state. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. We now move on to the Joint Parliamentary Group. There are several amendments in their entirety that will be defended by their spokesmen. If there is no amendment to the whole, they shall determine their position. As always, here the replica accumulates. First of all, Mr Larreina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I rise to this rostrum with the tranquillity that gives our group - given the panorama and the debate that took place, especially yesterday - no aspiration or goal to govern in Spain. [[The lady]] What is more, what we intend to do is not be governed by Spain. That gives us freedom to intervene, and the proposals and reflections we make are in positive terms, so that you may consider them, because we think that you do not have that partisan interest, but rather a general interest. I believe that there has already been a very positive element in this debate. For the first time the government, through Mr Montoro, has recognized that it has agreed with our political formation with Euskal Herria Bildu on the theme of the concert at Euskal Herria. I believe that this is a positive fact which I hope will also be recognised in this parliamentary area. He has also acknowledged that he has agreed with the radical left. I would say that being a radical left is not a negative thing. Radical comes from root, it comes from root. We focus our government action from that to the root of problems with a vision of social justice. In fact, the exercise of government that our political coalition in Guipúzcoa has carried out over the past four years has yielded very positive results. Guipúzcoa is the constituency of the entire Spanish State with a lower unemployment rate over these four years on a continuous basis, with growth rates also above the average, with work to combat surprising tax fraud, with good collection results and to tackle this structural problem. That shows that that radical left that you sometimes put as a sort of sinister enemy is capable of having good results and ruling to solve the daily problems of citizenship. I believe that this is the approach that politics must take and that we do in our total amendment to budgets that, under the banner of economic growth, are continuous with the previous ones and from our point of view continue not to address the real structural problems of the Spanish State, such as those insurmountable unemployment rates - which are totally insurmountable - that growing inequality - then we will talk about how inequality is evolving, which is a problem that we are concerned about. They still do not address tax fraud in depth, although then I will acknowledge that you have a certain sensitivity on that issue. They also remain detached from the real economy, from that industry, from that social economy, and remain committed to supporting the speculative economy. We believe that you are unable to take advantage of the economic growth that you are showing to correct those structural problems, to alleviate those tragic situations of extreme poverty and social exclusion and to contribute to the redistribution of wealth, which for us would be the fundamental elements for advancing social cohesion, which is basic in any normalized society. We are faced with budgets that are once again at the service of the people and social and economic sectors that have suffered the least from the crisis and that are still without their consequences at present; budgets that are turning their backs on those people who have suffered the most from the crisis and are suffering the most from its consequences. We have often repeated from this rostrum that this Government is swift and swift in responding to the demands and needs of large enterprises, the economic and financial sectors, the big capitals, but it is tremendously slow and insensitive in responding to the anguish and vital needs of the most needy population, to those needs in support of the real economy, to the economy that is attached to the ground: that of SMEs, that of the social economy, that of the people who receive the self-government regime. As we have pointed out in previous years, these new budgets continue to revolve around the speculative economy and large economic and financial groups. From our point of view, they do not have as a priority the fight against unemployment and social exclusion and they continue with a policy of recentralisation. This ultra-liberal and re-centralizing approach is in conflict with the political, economic and social reality of our country, Euskal Herria, and with its right to decide its future project and its own economic and social model. You asked us yesterday: Do you recognize that we are emerging from the crisis, yes or no? We are getting out of the crisis, but the approach is not whether we are getting out of the crisis or not, that we are getting out, the problem is at what cost and who pays that cost. That's where our discrepancies lie. We are emerging from the crisis in view of increasing inequality. There are very clear studies. Recently he read a study by Funcas on OECD countries that said very clearly that inequality in the Spanish state grew very significantly until 2011 - that is a reality -; in the years following the beginning of the crisis begins to decrease inequality, but from the second half, from 2013 to 2014, inequality again grows again. These data are worrying: when there is economic growth, inequality increases again. This recently published study of Funcas points out that one of the causes of this growth of inequality in these two years is labor reform, those structural reforms that you so defend. This is one of our concerns, and these budgets do not respond to that growth of inequality. They are not addressing the need for social cohesion. These budgets are insensitive to people in long-term unemployment, and the budget data are very clear: the unemployment coverage rate has fallen from 70% to 50% between May 2011 and May of this year. The average benefit received by each person in this situation has been reduced by 30%. The number of people in long-term unemployment continues to grow and has already exceeded 3.2 million people, accounting for 61% of those in unemployment. To this we must join that more than 3.7 million unemployed people do not receive any kind of benefit from the Ministry of Employment, according to the EPA in the second quarter of this year. We do not see a reduction in the amount of EUR 5.5 billion in unemployment payments. We don't see it as normal. Behind the apparent increases in employment policy items, the current amount of EUR 5,215 million is 30% lower than the 7,714 million in 2011. This is another of our concerns. Another is that they are promoting inequality, as I said before. It's concrete data, real data. Inequality is increasing when employment grows. At the same time, there are very relevant data from this growth of inequality. I had recently read that the number of ultra-rhetic persons abroad, who are establishing their residence in the Spanish State, has increased by 47%. Another significant fact of this disparity in inequality and of this disparity in treatment is the reality of the Sicav. In 2014 there were 239 more Sicav and 113 new ones in what we have in 2015, and there are another 50 waiting for authorization. In total, there are more than 3,300 Sicav. This means that there are people with a lot of money, that you are doing very well and that, in addition, you are putting yourself outside the ordinary tax system. The total assets in these Sicav have exceeded 36 billion euros, compared to 24,000 in 2011. That means the increase in inequality that I mentioned earlier. Another of the concerns we have is that we believe that these budgets remain ineffective in the face of tax fraud, and that is where I recognize your work. Perhaps you can tell me that I have been very heavy on this subject since the beginning of the legislature, but it is one of our concerns. Throughout this legislature, I have seen you approach our positions, but I also see you there as a bit of an orphan of support from the rest of the government. I have no doubt about his goodwill, but the Government is not supporting him sufficiently on this issue. The structural problem of the Spanish State is not in public expenditure, it is in public income. The data provided by the Government in its report are very significant in this regard. While the European average of public expenditure in relation to GDP is 48.1%, in the Spanish State it is 43.5 points below the EU average. However, if we look at what public revenue means, they reach 45 % of the gross domestic product in the average of the States of the European Union and 37.8 % in the Spanish State, i.e. 7.4 percentage points below the average of the European Union. In those 3 points of difference between expenses and income is where the mother of the lamb is, as would be popularly said. That is the issue to be addressed and we believe that the Government is not doing so with determination. There are measures that have a limited budget cost, such as increasing the number of inspectors. In this regard, the data of taxpayers per inspector in other States of the European Union are very significant. While in the Netherlands there are 697 taxpayers per inspector, 729 in Germany, 880 in France or 862 in the United Kingdom, in the Spanish State we are talking about 1,928 inspectors. There is a specific measure by the Government that it can take to combat tax fraud. There is another element that concerns us - I am finishing, Madam President - which is what we consider to be the preferred option for the speculative economy, not only because of what has happened in the past with the restructuring of the banking sector, but also because there is another element that concerns us, namely pensions and the fundamental discourse that lies in this Government for the promotion of private pension funds and, at the same time, not to act so that minimum pensions are decent pensions that allow pensioners to live with dignity. That is the important element of concern to be addressed by this Government, because doing that advocacy of private pension funds - which I do not think is bad - is ultimately encouraging the speculative economy. It should be remembered that behind the financial crisis of recent years have been all the American pension funds, because the pension funds in the end seek rapid return and have a lack of commitment to the real economy. Behind many relocations of industries in the Spanish State have been international pension funds that have been made with the control of these companies to get the fund out quickly. That is a matter of concern to us. Finally, I am referring to the reality of the budgets as far as our country is concerned. We think that they continue to turn their backs on the social reality of Euskal Herria, which still do not provide positive elements for progress in political normalization and pacification, and that also has its budgetary reflection as it can be to deal with the transfer of prison policy, which is a policy that is in law. You, who talk so much about law enforcement, have already been in breach of a basic law for over thirty years, an organic law subject to referendum such as the Statute of Gernika, which would be the fundamental element in addressing this process of normalization that we have in our hands. In short, all these reasons lead us to call for the return of budgets to the Government and to reaffirm ourselves in our conviction. As I said at first, we do not aspire to rule, we aspire not to be governed by you. This reaffirms us in the need to exercise our sovereignty precisely in order to respond to the situation of ordinary citizens, the most needy citizens and to achieve a more cohesive and just society in Euskal Herria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u11	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. For the same group, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u12	Thank you. Mr Montoro, I will show you what the Catalan response will be to your General State Budgets. [[Shows a sign that says: make the way clear. 11-27s]] This is the Catalan answer: a call that we believe will be massive on the 11th of September in Barcelona to show you that it is inevitable, that it is democratic that we want to build our Catalan republic. In fact, this call goes very well to the extent that it will be exactly the popular, democratic response to their budgets that we understand are already the last cul de bag for us. Because we are sick of their lies, tired of their triumphalisms, because you sell us that there is an increase in investment in Catalonia and even though it is true that in absolute numbers these are higher than in previous years, these budgets for 2016 remain anchored in the expolio. A social and economic expoliation that suffers from Catalan citizenship, because it is expoliation that we contribute 20% of the gross domestic product to the citizens of Catalonia and receive less than 11%; in the same way that it is expoliation that we are 16% of the population and receive less than 11% of the resources. And for a sample, a button: the museums of Prado, Reina Sofia, Thyssen and we added the Royal Theatre, receive 100 million. All Catalan cultural institutions, 11 million. About these lies, yours, others. For example, those in the form of non-compliance with the investments envisaged because year after year non-implementation continues to prevail, always, always below 50% or in some cases below the state average. And this expoliation is also extendable to the rest of the territories of the Catalan Countries. Note, if we leave aside the special regimes such as Navarra or the capitality of Madrid, Catalunya, País Valencià and Illes Balears are the three territories that receive the least resources from the whole State. The least, Mr. Montoro. Note: regarding the territorialized investment for next year, Castile and León 586 euros per inhabitant and year; Illes Balears, 142; Catalonia, 160; País Valencià, 178. I think it's all said. Moreover, you deliberately put into check the development of the main economic axis of the Mediterranean because of the 4 billion destined for the Mediterranean corridors, only 12% is destined to complete the route that connects Valencià and the French border, with absolutely paralyzed sections like the Castellbisbal-Martorell section. And I also remind you of something else: when the government of Rodríguez Zapatero transferred close quarters, 4 billion were committed. After so many years only 10% has been executed. Two years ago you committed 400 million. Where are they, Mr. Montoro? In view of the fact that in these budgets for 2016, for the whole of the Spanish State, they reach only 300 million for closeness, come up here and tell all users, suffering users of closeness to Barcelona that the money is not there. And then I ask: Where is the third additional provision, which came into force in 2007, which mandated that for seven years should be invested in infrastructure in Catalonia because of the gross domestic product? Did the Spanish Administration not undertake to transfer in capital what might be breached with respect to non-investment in infrastructure, as mandated by the third additional provision? I know you'll tell me there's a sentence against it. Indeed, the sentence that you have been looking for year after year and that you have not given up until you get it, because your word, the word of the Spanish political system with regard to Catalonia, is absolutely worthless. The political commitments that the Spanish governments have always made with regard to Catalonia are worthless. To these lies are added many others. For example, when you want us to believe that it is a very social general state budget when it responds to a retrograde conception of the concept of a social state, as is apparent from your tax reform, which favours high incomes and reduces the redistribution capacity of the system. It is a falsehood all that you tell us because the percentage of social spending on the total has been reduced. How can you justify that, boasting of economic recovery, you do not contemplate greater social spending when poverty has increased, when social exclusion has increased? There are 3.7 million people who no longer receive anything, then how can you get out of social spending if you do not meet 50% of what is required of you under the Unit Act? How can you get your chest out if you've even lowered your scholarship fees? How can you breastfeed if the number of long-term unemployed already exceeds 3.2 million people? Do we lie when we claim a 21.7% reduction in unemployment benefit expenditure? Is this reduction the result of an improvement in employment? You know perfectly well that this reduction is caused by the transfer of the beneficiaries of the various unemployment benefits to the active income of insertion, or worse, as I told you a moment ago, to the increase in the number of long-term unemployed. In addition, you limit pension growth to the strictly legal level, to 0.25 %. How can you boast of laying the foundations for growth and a new economic model when you even cut R & D+i resources by 33%? Look, your economic recovery is based on the sacrifice and total violation of social rights conquered for many years by the popular classes and, instead, you have no complex, in fact you have no moral and ethical argument that could justify why. It is criminal that you increase military spending a year more in percentage terms as absolute terms, 5,962 million, regardless of the one already announced but not budgeted new credit of 1 billion. So - I conclude, Madam President - these are budgets far from democratic radicalism, drafted in electoral, opportunistic terms, which is why we are already telling them that on September 27th we are going to vote and we are going to kick them in the ass democratically because we also know that... a kick in the ass democratically! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u13	Quiet, please. Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u14	Good, good. Don't worry, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u15	Mr. Tardà, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Mr. Tardà, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u16	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u17	Mr. Tardà, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u18	Don't worry. [[Mr Tardà i Coma completes his speech in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tardà for your magnificent words. Silence, please, silence. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, look at whether these budgets are electoralist in nature, which, at the end of yesterday's speech, glossed over the majority of the People's Group as an example of political stability and, forgotten or wanted to forget, that there was never as much social unrest and instability as with this People's Party government, in which people are forced to be on the streets continuously by evictions, by the preferents, by returned migrants, by the dismantling of public health or education, by employment, against the repressive policies of the Government, etc. There has never been so much political and social instability in this state with another government, Mr Montoro. In addition, it called for the political stability of the majority of a party that has such a level of corruption in its ranks that it makes politics a bochorno and that the Spanish state, Mr Montoro, is a banana state. That's what you call political stability. What he wanted to do yesterday was electoral campaign with budgets that make no sense to be presented at this time. That is why, Mr Montoro, the undemocratic nature of this draft general budget, in which the government almost in office will leave the 2016 budget approved without having the legitimacy to manage it, alone justifies our rejection and the presentation of this whole amendment. Furthermore, Mr Montoro, we are not dealing with a procedural budget, because its orientation and content clearly indicate that it is intended to leave the harmful economic policy of the Government of Mariano Rajoy to other future executives. It is not enough for these four years to show that fiscal consolidation and deficit reduction are the only priorities to be given a huge sacrifice for job creation and the guarantee of basic public services, but rather to endorse the heavy mortgage of a misguided economic and budgetary policy for the incoming Government. This draft budget insists on a manifestly failed policy, which, instead of establishing an economic recovery, as propagandistically manifested by the Government, has led the Spanish State's economy to an unsustainable situation. The economic memories themselves that accompany the budget show the basic error in the diagnosis of this government. To assume that there has been a recovery in a year with an unemployment rate of 23% and that it doubles to over 51% for young people, defines very well the vision of this government to remain in a resigned complacency while at its feet the Spanish state crumbles economically and socially. The economic policy pursued by this Government, ladies and gentlemen, during the crisis is not short-term. It has been designed structurally to keep inequalities and social precariousness for broad sections of the population. It is inconsistent to announce an economic recovery at the same time as consolidating a budgetary scenario of further adjustments and cuts, as there is once again a reduction in non-financial spending at a time of insufficient funding for basic services such as education, health or social services. This will continue to place the Spanish state as one of the EU's environment states with the lowest public spending rate in relation to GDP: 43.5% compared to 48.1%. And, Mr Montoro, the financial appeal is still being made on a very well-founded basis. One in five euros of the total budget is intended to cover the costs of debt and we believe, Minister, that there is an alternative, although this government does not even dare to lie to it: to undertake a profound tax reform that brings greater revenue by raising more than those who have more than just trying to straighten the future, but to correct major dysfunctions in the current tax system, far removed from the progressive and social equity, which favors the tax evasion of large fortunes and corporate corporations. The last tax collection memorandum illustrates this statement by concluding that companies listed in Ibex taxed an average of 6 %, as opposed to 15 % of the average taxation of SMEs or 16,7 % of employees. They sacrifice social spending again as its steep increase will not cover the holes undermined in health, education or social services policies. Moreover, the most important part of this increase is financed at the expense of the significant reduction in the tax intended for unemployment protection. Even a serious problem affecting the financial health of Social Security, where progress is also being made in the use of the Reserve Fund, is a glimmering matter - Minister, I do not have much time to expand. If this policy is not corrected, which does not allow good social security contributions for the low wages that workers are having, the system is not only precarious, but its future will be difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about the investment behaviour in Galicia of these budgets, despite the great spread or everything that the Government is saying these days in relation to this, we are faced with a very different reality from the propaganda that the People's Party is applying, and specifically the Minister for Development. This year there is 1.7% less investment in Galicia compared to the previous year, 95 million euros less. It should also be borne in mind that part of the budget in 2015 is not going to be implemented, as evidenced by the fact that the works of the high-speed train in Ourense are paralysed. For example, investments by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment have been reduced by EUR 19 million at a time when the gravity of the livestock sector in Galicia is enormous, Mr Montoro, at a time when it is indicated that most farms are in ruin because of the problem of low milk prices, and there is a reduction when there should be an increase in spending to alleviate, at least, this unfortunate situation with some shock plan. Today, the mobilizations carried out more than three months ago by livestock farmers and tractor farmers are following. That is to say, the agricultural sector in Galicia is standing because this Government does not know how to give it solutions and is agreeing that it is ruining itself. We can also talk about other issues - I don't have any more time - but ultimately the behaviour with the budgets in Galicia remains absolutely deceptive, because again there are again budget items for the A-59, for the A-57, for the A-8 and some sections of the AVE. These items appear in the General Budgets of the State which the Government has drawn up in these four years and, to date, have not been implemented, Mr Montoro, they have not been implemented.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u21	Mrs. Fernández, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u22	That is why we must always say that the Government does not comply with the investments it promises in our country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I confess that for a long time I have wondered what country you live in and what reality you see or what you tell them. Today I have an obligation to ask you aloud this question: Which country do you live in? How can they say that they have taken the Spanish economy out of the well? How can they say this when there are still thousands of people out of the system or at risk of exclusion, when there is an increasing number of citizens who even work have to go to NGOs to eat, when international agencies have drawn their attention to child poverty, when there are still elderly people who stop buying their medicines because they have to choose between paying for them or eating, when banks earn more than ever, but still do not flow credit to small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens? You say you have saved Spain, but the price has been to throw hundreds of thousands of Spaniards on the edge. I don't know if that's an achievement you can boast of, but, Mr. Montoro, it's yours. You have more interest in putting a motto to budgets than in the budgets themselves. These for you are those of recovery, but whose recovery, Minister? The rich? You are committed to anti-social policies. It announces that they have the capacity to invest a margin of EUR 10 billion, but instead of using them in progressive and egalitarian policies to relieve those who are experiencing it worse, they prioritize a tax reduction that only benefits those who pay them, those who have more, who will not notice the workers in their pocket, and that never reaches those who are on the poverty line, those who do not pay taxes. Minister, if these are the recovery budgets, how will the poorest communities be recovered, if the country's financing system is less and less supportive and transfers less income to the most disadvantaged communities? How are the three hundred and a thousand canaries going to be recovered who have no work and will not have it because there is no public investment by the state on the islands? How are twenty thousand small Canary Islands companies going to recover that have closed their doors in the archipelago destroyed by the extra costs of insularity and crisis? In the Canary Islands all the alarms have been fired: those of poverty, those of unemployment, those of social exclusion, but his Government did not want to hear them. It is time for you to make a special policy for the islands. Continental policies for island territories cannot be pursued. In the Canary Islands we have 340,000 people unemployed, but you are carrying the comprehensive employment plan for the Canary Islands. They have been charged one more year, despite being covered by a law and despite the fact that in these budgets they have an additional 10% for active employment policy funds, an additional 5.2 billion. You have also taken away the funds from the Educational Infrastructure Employment Plan, and you are in breach of the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal Regime Act by investing in the islands well below the average investment in the Peninsula. They have left you to the canary unemployed, they have left you to remain in the hands of the autonomous community, but at the same time they cut off social funds, investments and financing from that autonomous community. You suffocate us with your right hand and your left hand, and you do so by being aware of the social situation in which we find ourselves. The nationalists of the Canary Islands in the last thirty years have had to fight in this Chamber against budgetary expenditure, every convention and every reform of the REF. In these thirty years we have not moved from our position, while the rest of the Canarian Members have behaved in one way or another whether their party was ruling or in the opposition. We year after year are the only ones who continue to defend the same and claim the same rule as those who rule. PSOE and PP raise the importance of REF when they are in opposition, so they do fill their mouths saying that it must be respected, that it is fundamental for the Canary Islands, but they forget about it and turn it into wet paper when they arrive at the government. The Canarian nationalists are pleased that this new Government of the Canary Islands has made progress in the regulation of the fiscal aspects of the REF and the forthcoming approval of the economic aspects, but we are not going to allow it to become wet paper. That is to be a canary MP in this House. Being a Member of the Canary Islands is not to come here and raise your hand in silence, it is not to be complicit in the abuse of the islands. To be a Member of the Canary Islands is to come here to say in this rostrum that there is a European land which is 2,000 kilometres away and which you forget one day after another. To be a canary MP is to come here and tell them that there are no trains on our islands. The railways are the roads, which is where public transport circulates. To be a canary Member is to denounce that, while in the Peninsula you have spent billions on building the best high-speed network in Europe, in the Canary Islands you have unscrupulously dismantled investments in roads, because despite the needs identified by the Minister of Development herself, this year's budget covers only part of the accumulated deficit, which prevents us from completing the work already started and creating jobs. To be a canary Member is to denounce that you have abandoned investment in tourist infrastructure. They have eliminated the cost agreement, left an insignificant departure in the hydraulic works agreement, and their airport policies take precedence over continental airports, despite the island surplus. To be a canary Member is to insist on the need to take account of our agricultural sector and to work together once and for all with the Posei parties. His own secretary general in the Canary Islands has surrendered to the evidence and has declared that these are not the budgets that the Canary Islands needs. Let us hope that in the course of the amendments you will comply with the economic and fiscal regime, that you will comply with the investment agreements and provide the Canary Islands' comprehensive employment plan. Justice and equality, Mr Montoro. Remember what we have been telling you by the canarian nationalist deputies. You have to improve these budgets, because the recovery you are talking about cannot be from Cadiz up. Justice and equality for the Canary Islands, members of the People's Party, no more or less than is ours. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montoro, yesterday you gave us one of your predictable, boring, electoral speeches, truffled to the excess of usual topics: inheritance received and triumphalist proclamations in economic politics. Mr Montoro, you and President Rajoy love to talk about geometry, especially when you talk about budgets or economic policy, and always make continuous references to a geometric figure, to the circle - yesterday you quoted it in your speech - virtuous. Let's talk about geometry. I would say that these are the budgets of another geometric figure, an irregular polygon of six faces: the urn. This is the true figure that inspires these budgets: the urn. [[Show a drawing]] You always use the same virtuous circle - economic growth, job creation and tax reduction - but there are other less virtuous circles than ever, never speak. For example - and this is only your merit, of your party, of your legislature - the clear, manifest, tangible decrease in the total number of hours worked. The tangible decline, evident in the pension shelter. Half the pension hut, 43 billion, has been eaten. The tangible drop in coverage for the unemployed; this year a decrease of 22%. Another unvirtuous circle: the increase of foreign debt, the increase of inequality, the most unjust increase of the European Union in the distribution of income and wealth, or the increase in the deficit of the trade balance, 11.9 billion in the first half of the year, 200 million more than in the same period of the previous year, and that which oil has at the lowest levels of recent times. Finally, it is also an unvirtuous circle, although it presupposes job creation. I quote data from a medium as prestigious as The Financial Times: Increase of workers who earn the minimum interprofessional wage or less, one in eight workers receive 648 euros or less. So how can you live? Increase in part-time contracts: in June one in four contracts had a duration of one week or less. In July, only 6.9% of contracts were indefinite. Finally, the increase in the impoverishment of citizens; for the first time we have poor workers. So when I heard you say yesterday that your budgets have improved the lives of the Spaniards, that they have opened up a wide range of opportunities and that they are an example of social protection, I turned to my seat. No, Mr Montoro, these will not be the most social budgets; these budgets will only serve to confirm once again the Government's submission to the stability policies imposed to solve a financial crisis, the losses of banks and speculators, and all on account of people's rights and future. These are budgets that are rushed to try to win the next elections. So let's get out of curved lines, circles, circles and use the straight line. The analysis of the revenue item leads us to a clear conclusion: they are absolutely unreal, revenues with square figures at hammers, with forecasts of increases in social contributions and absolutely fanciful tax collection. We know that the figures are going to be below what was in the 2015 forecast, and that they are going to lower taxes. They are therefore a science fiction income made to support that mantra that sells to us one day and another, which is that of recovery, and with the view put into the next general elections. While companies that contribute to IBEX charge a ridiculous 6%, the increase in tax collection will be a quimera. You have included in these budgets some electoral candy such as tax reduction. Lower the IRPF, therefore it will go down more to those who pay the most, it will go down a bit to the workers, but nothing to those who cannot pay taxes. Why not lower VAT, which would affect all of us, those who tax, those who pay taxes and those who cannot pay taxes? He spoke of the rise of 0.25 in pensions, which will not compensate for the increase of the CPI planned for 2016, which will be 1.3, and on the other hand there is the rise of the officials, who will not regain the lost purchasing power since they started the cuts. We have little time and I wouldn't like to leave - so I'm going to skip all the others - without talking about the Valencians. One question, Mr Montoro: when will you stop mocking us? When? Let us remember that Mr Rajoy came four years ago, for this time, and proclaimed: when he governs the People's Party, the discrimination of the Valencian Community will end. We have under-financing, which you acknowledge, which you have not addressed as would be your obligation, which makes us increase our debt. Every year every Valencian owes 203 euros - his merit, of his party -, which makes us have 128 euros less for basic public services such as health or education, and 248 euros less than the average for other policies such as agriculture, housing, industry, etc. They have made five budgets, five, and in all budgets the Valencians have been below the average, this year 61 euros below the average. Mr Tardà has already said: there are autonomous communities that year after year duplicate or even triple what gives us, what we receive. So, when are you gonna stop mocking us? I remind you that we are a poor autonomous community, 12 points below GDP. I'm finishing up, Madam President, I have two lines left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u27	Mr. Baldoví, you must be done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u28	I'm done, I've got five seconds left. There is an image that symbolizes our relationship with the State. This is it: a simple squeezer. [[Show a drawing]] You put your hand and the Valencians put the oranges. This one. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u29	Mr. Baldoví, finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u30	I'm done. He told us yesterday, what do you intend to do if you have tabled an amendment in its entirety? What are you trying to do? Two things. We pretend that they don't lie to us and that they don't punish us. Less pedagogy, Mr. Montoro, and more justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Alvarez. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, last year you had twelve amendments in all; one was that of the Forum. I thought, I recognize, that it was the last amendment to all the general budgets of this legislature. I was wrong. There are still twelve amendments and if a few days goes by, I do not know whether they would be thirteen or fourteen, I am very pleased to say so. Believe me, I didn't suppose that we were going to discuss budgets in a hurry and running, in the middle of August, with the excuse of State responsibility. Believe me, too, I never thought that the budgets could be so electoral, harmful and deceptive, especially for Asturias. I understand your political intention in the face of the wishes that are coming, but, Mr Montoro, I ask you to understand the request for the repayment of these budgets that I make to you on behalf of the Forum. This legislature has been historic for several reasons; but I assure you, Minister, that these accounts will be part of the history of Asturias for having been treated as a colony that is not united, condemning it to sink into the well of abandonment and national marginality. For educational purposes, the citizens of Asturias ask us two questions: why these budgets and why now, when it is less than two months before the end of the legislature. The answer to the first question leads us to five reflections. First, these budgets may want to accommodate continued growth with estimates of 3% and an estimated revenue target that will grow by 4%. But it is no less true that they can be inflated like the ones of the year 2015, with stocks in the collection of up to 4 billion euros. Secondly, these budgets continue to be characterized by the unjust transfers of the State to the autonomous communities, which define the financing model and where a deficit ceiling of 0.3% is set for the communities and 2.2% for the State; you know my opinion in this regard on the issue of financing and its feudal and arbitrary conception. Asturias, at the tail of the autonomous communities, receives an increase of 4.7% of GDP compared to 12% of Catalonia and 11% of Valencia and Andalusia. We are ultimately at the tail of the autonomous communities and this is fraught with all our possibilities, and we already know that the model is not touched even if the PP has been committed electorally to touching it, and President Fernández has allowed it since its gestation with President Zapatero. The unexpected was the overlapping of an informal and discriminatory model with the poorest regions for the benefit of those with the most territorial weight, are more powerful and more threatening. Third, employment has improved but continues to suffer from high time and low wages and consequent contributions, with youth unemployment between the ages of 16 and 19, close to 70%. Fourthly, the figure of social expenditure that is sold as compensation for recent adjustments of these years does not imply a large increase in pensions, salaries of civil servants, scholarships or social dependency funds. In fact, there is a reduction, since last year it was 53.9 % compared to 53.5 % this year, and more in view of the use of the Pension Reserve Fund in the amount of 6.2 billion. Fifthly, the slight rise in health and education does not compensate for the drastic reductions in previous years, and it only acquires small relevance to the application of the Lomce, but not to the scholarships, which are so necessary in times of crisis, because they only increase by 0.2% and that means an average of 100 euros of increase per scholarship per year, Minister. The salaries of officials 1 %, pensions 0.25 and the envelope of last-minute measures in some way compensatory, such as the old-age or gestational permits wrapped in the family support flag, which actually ring, as I have already told you more than once, to Hamelin's flute player behind Mr Rajoy waiting for time or melody changes that allow him to believe. You must now answer the second question: why now precisely? There is only one answer, Minister, which is not the tainted responsibility of a ruler. The reality is that they are using their budgets as electoral propaganda, leaving many things on the agenda with the trick of annuities, and firing in general a strong smell of lack of credibility and traditional non-compliance. It all depends on your execution and on who wins the elections and forms a different Parliament, Mr Montoro, and that is the only truth that is going to happen; that is the only truth that is going to happen. But if the general elements that I have just transferred to you are questionable, the more so are those that affect Asturias and are bleeding. The Asturian economy presented in 2013 and 2014 the largest decline in its GDP compared to all communities, almost twice the fall of the rest of Spain. The principality presents again the second worst data of Spain with the evolution of unemployment: more than 95,000 unemployed. In 2015 it remains the autonomous community with the lowest rate of activity and continuous decline, and in this context the investment of these budgets is simply demolishing: Asturias is allocated 307 million, that is, a decrease of 7.6% over last year, which means the second lowest budget since 2000, with a decrease since 2011, Mr Montoro, of more than 44.7%, and that counting on the increase of 12% last year. In addition, the underperformance of budget execution in the last four years is verified, according to the report of his own ministry: the degree of implementation of the 2015 budgets is 20,8 %. The question I ask you, Mr Montoro, is how will Asturias recover from these budgets? How are we gonna get on the so-cracked recovery train? Explain it to us, please. A fellow Member of the Senate and a relevant member of his Government asked me about the reasons for our anger and rejection of these budgets. I'm going to ask you a few simple questions so we can all find out. Why did the high speed end in Gijón and Oviedo in 2004 and why does it end now in León, Mr Montoro? After four years, does Leon's sac bottom station still exist, yes or no? Is the exchanger's cotton test, moving it to León from Pula de Lena, correct or incorrect, exists or does not exist? Minister, I ask you to allow me only this amendment so that we can be sure that the train is going to be of high speed and not of high performance. After four years of Mr Rajoy's government, is the international variant of Pajares open to traffic yes or no? What happened to the Salas-La Espina motorway, beyond volcanoes and beyond real monuments to the waste? What was on the Gijón Sea Highway? What happened to the Gijón track plan and the Gijón project to the north and the station's centrality? What happened to the mining fund sentence? How can one say without blush from the People's Party of Asturias that the fall of investment is due to the completion of the works? How, who takes the money, Mr. Montoro? I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u32	Mr. Alvarez, your time is up. Stop it. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I am finished, Madam President. If the Socialists reject these budgets, as they have stated, they will prove it by urging the Government of Asturias to use any resources that may be contemplated in the Constitution in relation to the model of territorial financing, in order to avoid transmission...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u33	Mr. Alvarez, finish. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Madam President. All this justifies me in presenting this amendment as a whole, in announcing to him all the amendments that I may be able to transfer to him, and in seeing if I am lucky enough to be accepted by one person throughout the legislature.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u34	Thank you, Mr. Alvarez. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u35	Mr. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u36	[[The honourable Member begins his speech in Basque]] A paradise of growth, of job creation, of airy rise from the crisis that painted us yesterday, Mr. Montoro, a paradise as false as that of the biblical legend, where his painter was well cared for to ban Adam and Eve from biting the apple of science so that they did not really see; so false also the paradise painted by his government that has had to impose the Bite Law so that the citizenry cannot learn about reality. These budgets are an act of serious government irresponsibility by striving to adopt them now, at the end of the legislature, with the aim of handing over to the next government in case the People's Party is not there. It is a wish to leave everything tied and well bound, as that very general said when he died, in case the citizenry chooses to expel them from the Government. This, Mr Montoro, is a wish to correct the plan in advance of the will reflected in the ballot box; it is an Olympic contempt for the free will of the citizenry. It says it's an act of responsibility. It will in any case be the responsibility of the irresponsibility of which the Government will have to respond. As far as the content is concerned, I have to say that these are mendacious and electoral budgets. Mendaces: on a false, premeditated forecast of economic growth and therefore of income forecast, either through taxes or through contributions resulting from the increase in employment. Fake the expected growth, entrepreneurship the conditions of the new jobs, rebirth and generalization of the figure that for a long time seemed endangered in Europe of the poor worker, with work and misery, incapable of such working conditions to ensure significant increases in the contributions. Yesterday, Minister, you accused different amendments of not being able to read and handle statistics. Well, Minister, you're not going to be the one to teach us how to read and handle them, but I do recognize that you have many lessons to teach us about how to manipulate them. Electoralists: because of the false perspective they want to sell us that civil servants and citizens with lower incomes will be significantly benefited by discounts in the IRPF. It is ridiculous how much the low-income sector and a toast to the sun for the civil servant, so punished so far in the loss of his purchasing power and in his professional prestige before the citizenry, before whom you and your media have presented as privileged sector and nothing effective. Pure and hard populism that served, promoted by his party, to find a Turkish head in that cynical message about having lived all the citizenship above our possibilities, and to privatize services and basic public goods, which they have assumed: one, round business for private companies very close to the government party; two, economic losses for the public era, and three, severe losses of quality in services. Those who truly benefit from these rebates in the IRPF are the high rents, because we already know what the percentages are: a low percentage up or down on high bases can be a good pinch; a high percentage on low bases will always be small, as it turns out with their rebates, but it is true that these decreases in the IRPF macroeconomicly can present them as a great public generosity, since overall they represent a significant amount of lower income in the public sector, generously permissible according to their fallow forecasts, as I said before, of growth. That is, pure and hard populism, manual electoralism. They hide that around the corner, as you are back in government, you will have to give - and you know it very well - a new twist of nut in indirect taxes and in more privatizations of goods and services. Their budgets are, for anyone who wants to look at them with a minimum of intelligence and insight, a whole catechism of what you understand by a crisis of characteristics such as those that society is experiencing, that Friedmanian conception that you do not tire of repeating as active and passive that every crisis is an occasion for change of course, of new perspectives for economic policy, only that what your fundamentalist gurus of neoliberalism do not in any way seek to solve the effects of the crisis on the bulk of citizenship. What they seek is to take advantage of it to impose, as the only possible reality and show, as the only alternative, an increasingly hoarding capitalism, more elitist, more enriching of a small social sector at the cost of hunger, misery, unworthy jobs, neglected diseases, etc., of more and more people. For you, the crisis is a real opportunity to experience the evil, merciless and unbrained doctrine of shock. I can't stop referring to Navarra. Mendaz again his apparent rise in investments in Navarre. I've mentioned it before. From a base of departure - that of previous years - very low, the absolute increase it implies is very low. What you foresee in these budgets for Navarre is somewhat insignificant, the second autonomous community to which you allocate less investments, but, moreover, a large part of that amount is already spent, they are not new investments, to which you must add the charge that you want to apply in 2016 -616 million, 6.2% more - to Navarra's contributions to the State with an extension of the quota in force in the previous five years already expired. UPN did not want to negotiate the new quota before May on the grounds that a new Government would do so. Right, but the PP now sets this amount in advance in these budgets to weaken the positions of the new foreign government in negotiating the quota for the next five years. I'll tell you what. One, be more responsible as a government at the end of the legislature. Two, do not lie in the forecasts on which they want to justify their budgets. Three, do not use their budgets, which are for the whole of society, as a populist and party electoral program. So - four - withdraw these budgets and let the new government coming out of the polls, with the subsequent negotiations that will be necessary, let - I repeat - that new government be the one to draw up the 2016 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u37	Thank you, Mr Serrano. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to begin by sending on behalf of the Navarro People's Union and on my own behalf a message of affection to the family, friends and party comrades of Txiki Benegas, a man - in what I was able to treat him - with a great human and political category. Ladies and gentlemen, we participate in this last debate with our own voice and with complete normality. Only once in our recent democratic history has a budget bill been processed without any amendments to the refund, in 1979. Therefore, today's debate on the return amendments is part of the natural habitat where the processing of this bill takes place. Twelve have presented themselves and believe me that we have read them and analyzed them in detail. From the reading of its content, its diagnosis of reality, its arguments, its recipes, one could say that some, by its extension - just a folio - or by its arguments, only carry out the procedure of appearing to be opposed. Others, most of them, do not reflect a minimum of the changes that have taken place in Spain in the last four years and are therefore anchored in 2011, in the photograph of the economy in 2011. Others concentrate all their criticism on the electoralism of their presentation, as if the amendments themselves were not also an electoral claim. Others provide the same recipes that would lead us to the exit box after all the advances we have made in the check box, effort-to-effort, for four years, left-wing or extreme-left policies that have already demonstrated all the social harms to which its application leads. Therefore, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support them, first and foremost because we sign an agreement to carry out the budgets and, as the Minister knows, we like to comply with what we have signed; secondly, because neither the arguments nor the prescriptions to get out of the crisis that the amendments put forward - certainly very few recipes - deserve any credit or at least more credit than those offered by his Government, and thirdly, because, beyond the differences that we would have had between parties or between administrations that we have had to manage in this difficult time, we believe that, in essence, the budget laws have also served to turn this country around. We feel that we have contributed to this. Moreover, we are modestly proud that political leadership in public policies has effectively served to make us better, not better enough, but better than four years ago. I know that there are political groups that are much more comfortable without having to make a single complicated decision, seeing bulls from the barrier always, and that are going to run for election with their service sheets completely blank, without having helped in anything to get out of the crisis, having criticized everything, it is true, but without supporting a single political or economic measure that would have helped to turn our economy and our public accounts around. They'll see. It is true - you know, Minister - that that was not our attitude. We have tried to desidelogize in some way every decision, every vote and act with the maximum that, if Spain were to do better, Navarre would also do well and, therefore, the better, the better for all. You know, Minister, that we are particularly concerned about Navarra. We have experienced a socially and economically hard and difficult time, but I would like to highlight above all today the attitude with which both your Government and your ministry, you, the Government of Navarre, my party and yours have faced the many challenges and challenges at this time, not seeking problems to create new ones, but as a time when it was necessary to work together with the will to reach agreements. That is why I think the time has been difficult but the legislature has been positive. Here are the agreement for Navarra's participation in the Ecofin working groups, with an amendment by the Navarro People's Union, the solution of the no-minor problem of Volkswagen's VAT or the agreement for the amendment to the Act on the Financing of Autonomous Communities with which to shield respect for the Navarro tax system, also through an amendment by UPN which the People's Parliamentary Group accepted. All these advances have as their origin a shared constructive attitude, as I said, and a willingness to walk together and all that, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is what is in danger today, not for you or for us, but for a new government in Navarre that is supported by those who made the support of violence their modus vivendi, the generation of conflicts their sign of political identity and the denial of the political personality of Navarre their maximum obsession. I invite you to read Amaiur's amendment today to check how its exclusive programmatic objective, the same as always, remains the construction of the non-existent mythical Euskal Herria, the same, denying even Navarra the right to exist, to be, our right to be shipwrecks and Spaniards. What attitude will the new Government of Navarre have in its relations with the State? We don't know. Will it be the institutionalized lie, the permanent conflict, the paralysis of the great public works, as they have in fact agreed in their programmatic agreement and as they have already announced publicly some of their partners? We, Minister, are not going to change our attitude and we will continue to be constructive. We were yesterday, we are today and we will be tomorrow. To this end, we will control the level of implementation of investments, also the pace of their processing, and we will certainly monitor those who intend to paralyse the great public works that the State has committed in Navarre. We will also ask for justification for Navarra's contribution to the common expenses and we will denounce, do not hesitate, ladies and gentlemen, the conflicts that are artificially created to use them against Navarra or against the common project of Spain, and we will do so with our own voice, with loyalty, with responsibility and with the will to compromise. We will table partial amendments to improve some items that we believe are insufficient or that need greater administrative impetus, as well as to fulfil some commitments that we have jointly undertaken in support of motherhood. I'm done. We are not new in this forum, Your Honor, you know it, too, Your Honors. We will continue to defend the interests of Navarra and the Navarros in the context of a Spain that we want to achieve a total recovery with justice and equity. We will do so with those who bet on Navarra's future, for its political freedom and for its harmonious development and solidarity with the rest of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u39	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this turn my first words must be about UPN, Mr Salvador, your representative, your spokesman, because he has put on the political scene an absolutely basic value, which is the value of loyalty. Today, UPN is right to say that the stake he made, the political commitment to be present in this House supporting an economic policy, supporting the General Budgets of the State has served - he said - to turn the country around, to improve. I have repeated enough that we have not reached any goal and that we have not painted any idyllic country with it, but we have made progress in the solutions to the economic crisis, and we have done so - I insist - by having political loyalties and we have done so against many political groups, having them against them, and they have not put more sticks on the wheel because they could not, that is, if they had been able to do so, they would have done so from total disloyalty with the idea, with the common project that the Spaniards have, because they represent a different option; they are undoubtedly in their legitimate right, but always recognizing that sovereignty lies in the whole of the Spaniards, always recognizing that the limits of their freedom are in the freedom of all, that they are only a part of all, and the day that they forgets the most elementary democratic rules, which are exactly those that underpin the State of law of Spain. Do you know a rule of law that is not based on the sovereignty of the people? Nor does the sovereignty of the people reside in this House. In this House there is the delegation of that sovereignty. Sovereignty in a democracy always resides in the people, in the people as a whole, in the citizens as a whole, and in that whole of the people, of the citizens, you, those nationalist groups, who are only interested in leaving the common house, those nationalist groups are minorities. You are important and legitimate, of course, but you are a minority. Recognize yourself as a minority and therefore you are not able to represent the whole of national sovereignty nor are you able to represent an alternative to change the basic rules on which that rule of law is based, such as the Constitution. What you have to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to present a proposal for a reform of the Constitution, because what is going to happen in Catalonia on 27 September is an autonomous election, no more or less, in which one political option has convinced another to give the number one of an electoral list to a representative of an option that is of communist left. Very well, very legitimate, if we are all legitimized there, but I have to warn, as I am saying from this rostrum, about those representations of the left that we call radical, but not because it goes to the roots, but because where the roots of prosperity, of progress, of trust, of investment are not born, because you represent political options absolutely incompatible with economic recovery and with job creation, to the point that after listening to them, of course, and knowing the content of their amendments to the whole, I was asking a question, and it is not a question to myself purely intellectual but the next one. Imagine that the government is right and that in 2020, in the next legislature, we have an occupation rate of 20,300,000 people in Spain. At that time we can say, because we will have recovered the level of well-being we had before the crisis, that Spain has been able to overcome this crisis completely, the crisis of unemployment. So, what are your lordships going to do? They will have to reinvent themselves, because their lordships live from the crisis. This is what they called in previous political situations in Spain 'against Franco we lived better'. This is what your ladies and gentlemen are doing in this morning's speech. The day Spain, the Spanish, the Spanish citizens, the Canarian citizens, the Asturian citizens, the Navarro citizens, the Catalan citizens overcome this crisis, because we are about to overcome it, you are going to stay with the argument hanging from the brush, you are going to have to reinvent yourself, because you are precisely the ones who ride on the backs of the crisis to get a political revenue out of it. [[Applauds]] Some of you have made a simple paradoxical speech this morning, because if you think so, why did you support President Zapatero and his policies in the previous legislature? These are the ones that led Spain to the crisis, to the crisis of unemployment, to the crisis of inequality and the increase of relative poverty, as is shown statistically and on the social fabric of the Spaniards. You supported those policies and now go up to the rostrum to say that we are not resolving the crisis. I do not think it is right for you to resolve the crisis, frankly. You are not denying that there is recovery. It is that, politically, what will they do if they run out of the economic crisis? That is the impression of the speeches this morning, because that reality that you painted is not the one that is taking place in your own territories: neither is it in terms of the increase in the financing provided in the General Budgets of the State for those territories - which we have already been reporting and have it there, in the budgetary documentation - nor is it in the savings that the State facilitates through the financing mechanisms, nor is it especially so in terms of the evolution of unemployment. Is it not increasing according to the latest EPA - second quarter of 2015 on the first quarter of 2014 - by 4.8% the occupation in Catalonia? Isn't that happening in Catalonia? Aren't the Catalans doing this? They are certainly not certain Catalan politicians. You are not at all interested in this speech, the speech that it is they, the entrepreneurs who are creating that job. How is job creation in the Canary Islands going? It's increasing by 7.6%, very necessary, of course, but someone's doing something in the Canary Islands, isn't it? Of course, because of the speech we have heard, the Canary Coalition will not be responsible for aiming at this job creation in the Canary Islands, because it seems that there is no job creation in the Canary Islands, far above the national average. He could continue to report all these circumstances of job creation. But all right, these groups, which represent what they represent - democratically, of course - do not represent the canaries, the Catalans, the Asturians or of course the Valencians. By the way, how much employment is growing in the Valencian Community? 6.5%, 6.5% job creation. Someone's doing something. You know, there are a lot of people in all those territories who, with their commitment, with their ability to risk, despite those political speeches, get up every day and someone is joining Social Security and someone is creating jobs and there are more and more open businesses and there is more and more economic activity in the industrial sector and there are more and more exporters. But you don't talk about it. They don't talk about it because they're in political speeches that apparently aren't right. It does not suit your political speeches, but I believe that this is what needs to be specified. You are not alone in nationalism, let us say, evocative of countries that never existed. They are in the nationalistic dream to avoid the applied reality, practical, that we are in Spain, that Spain is Europe and that Spain is leading economic growth in income and employment in Europe. Is that right or not? Isn't that right in your territories? Doesn't it? They don't care if it happens. That is what must be made manifest in a political debate like this. And if it is to be said that I do not know what public work is stopped, for it is said, but it is not stopped, it is being done. Don't mess things up for me, I've taken the morning picture before the workers arrive, and that's how it's stopped. This is really the discourse of inconvenience: do not put realities ahead of me that spoil my nationalist discourse, evocative that I need to leave my country to found another country, that no one knows what it is and that in their hands, moreover, the new country would run certain dangers outside Europe, outside the euro. It would be quite dangerous as we are seeing it happening even in countries that are certainly in the hands of that radical left, as is the case with Greece, and look at what is happening in Greece by making the wrong decisions and not making the decisions that are really consistent with the approach of the common Europe project that we are building. I will insist on one of the arguments, because this Government is indeed doing a great job in combating tax fraud. That's fighting corruption, that's fighting the first corruption. It is impossible that such tax fraud should not be extended in a country where corruption is widespread, and this Government is acting very firmly against corruption and tax fraud, as has not been done so far in democracy, and that is what I have to guarantee this morning, that the laws are being enforced in our country, which is demanding faithful compliance with tax laws regardless of the person concerned with such faithful compliance with tax laws. That is what the Spanish Government is doing and that is very important in order to add credibility and confidence and to be able to do a country project. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing the geometry that you understand, but with political geometry as variable as those that have been braided in certain autonomous and municipal governments since 24 May is going very little, because today you have to be subject to the laws emanating from this House, from the Congress of the Deputies of Spain. Therefore, the translation of that variable political geometry in this House, which seems to be what many of you want, even major political groups in this House, will bring about more uncertainty, more distrust and will put economic recovery at risk to the point of preventing it and thus re-entering that economic crisis. I appeal to the sense of responsibility of those who today have government action in their hands. They have to comply with the laws, it is the Spanish and European laws, they are the ones that suit us Spanish, they are the ones that are making the Spaniards protagonists of this economic recovery, they are the ones that make it possible for us to bring budgets to this House of high social content, which are precisely those pensions that are being collected in all the territories of Spain; it is those unemployment insurances that are being collected in all the territories of Spain; it is those guaranteed financings so that they do not lack precisely economic resources to those who do not yet benefit from the economic recovery. What is very important is that economic recovery progresses so that more and more people enter the threshold of that economic recovery. That is the positive bet that needs to be made, that is the bet that I have not heard in the speeches this morning, except in that of Mr Salvador, who has every reason to insist that, indeed, from institutional loyalty it is how a country is built and how a better country is made for all regardless of their ideologies. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u41	Thank you, Minister. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the amendments to the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for 2016. I am already telling you - and I am sure you are not at all surprised - that my group will vote against all of them for the reasons I will try to explain throughout this speech. The fact is that during these days of debate some criticisms have been heard inside and outside this House of this bill which I consider to be unfair and which, for the most part, affect the form more than at the bottom of the text, which leads me to believe that you too believe that it is a good budget, which is ultimately really important, that it is a budget that serves to consolidate and boost economic recovery and that contributes to greater job creation, which is the ultimate objective of all government policy in this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition, in line with its attitude over these four years of the worst, the better, does not agree with anything the government does. You do not agree that in January 2016 Spain has a budget adapted to the economic reality, which as you know is not the same as it was in January 2015, but you forget that that is precisely what the Constitution establishes in its article 134, is what recommends common sense and, no doubt, is the most beneficial for Spain. [[Applauds]] They do not agree either that we process and approve the fifth budgets of the legislature, making it clear that the abnormal thing is not that we approve this budget, but that the extraordinary thing was that we had to approve the 2012 budget, because it was the Socialist Party that left the government without fulfilling its constitutional obligation to present the General Budgets of the State before 1 October, showing an improper irresponsibility of a government of Spain. [[Several Members: Very well!]] He did so by putting his interests ahead of those of the Spanish as a whole. He did so because he did not dare to translate into a document his stark failure at the head of the nation's government. He did so because he didn't have the courage to tell the Spaniards that they were leaving the boat when - you thought so - Spain was going to be rescued. They thought we were going to be rescued because we had little financing capacity, because public services were bankrupt, because Social Security was in deficit after having lost more than EUR 15 billion in collection and because they left us a deviation from the public deficit of nothing less than 50%; more than EUR 30 billion in deficit that the PSOE hid from the Spanish. Mr Sánchez - you are not in the House, but I trust you to read the 'Diary of Sessions' - who breaks the parliamentary cycle, the one who fulfills the Constitution or the one who escapes without fulfilling it? Who uses the institutions, who deceives and hides reality from Parliament, from all the Spaniards in the end, who deceives and hides reality from our European partners, or who presents a document that shapes reality and advances what the future can be, giving our economy the stability and certainty that it needs so much right now? [[A Member of Parliament: There, there!]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, they did a lot of damage to Spain with their attitude in 2011. Almost a year of paralysis since Mr. Zapatero finally lowered his arms in June 2011, surrendered to a crisis that he had been struggling to deny for so long and announced that he would advance the general elections by leaving 46 million Spaniards at the stake. And those elections didn't call them until the end of the year. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, pure partisan interest with terrible consequences for Spain, and you, Mr Sánchez, were here applauding Mr Zapatero. I therefore ask you not to pretend now that the Spanish will continue to pay for the consequences of that catastrophe and to rejoice that - now, yes - we will have a serious and responsible government that puts their country's interests ahead of anything else. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you broke the parliamentary cycle in 2011 and President Rajoy and his Government fulfil their obligation to govern until the last day of the legislature. As you do not like it, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you do not even like the Finance Minister to defend the General Budgets of the State in this House, something surprising, because it has always been so in our democratic history. The Minister of Finance has always defended the general budgets, but you are committed to trying to write the story at your will and convenience. Even Mr Hernando, showing the well-known socialist talent, has spotted the Minister of Finance and Public Administrations as a testaferro. I would ask you not to use those words so disrespectful, for if what we are talking about is substitutes, there are many people who think inside and outside this House that you are the testator of Podemos here, as you are in some autonomous communities and municipalities, a position that is disputed, yes, with The Plural Left, and yet I would never tell you that you are the testator of the radical left. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are discussing the general budgets for 2016, the most important law we pass annually in the General Courts, which contains the forecast of the state's total revenue and expenditure and is the basis on which the public economy and, to a large extent, the private economy will move in the following year. As a political and economic document, the General Budgets of the State can and must be debated, and that is what we are doing over these weeks and we will do in the coming weeks until their future approval. As a set of forecasts they are, the General Budgets of the State reflect the credibility of those who prepare and present them, and here I want to focus, ladies and gentlemen, on credibility, because it serves me to refute some of the criticisms made over these days. These criticisms can be summed up by the fact that the opposition does not believe that we are going to meet the target of the public deficit, that economic growth forecasts are not being created and that neither are job creation forecasts being created. Public revenue forecasts are not created and in good logic they do not agree with the forecast of expenditure either. I must therefore think that during the period of amendments to the joint text most of its amendments will be in line with this criticism and will be adapted to a lower income forecast, so that they do not lead to an increase in expenditure as a whole. It has never been so until now, but we may be surprised this year by acting consistently and not pulling Section 31 out as if it had no end. Soon we'll see if this is the case. We have even had to listen to such profound and persuasive assessments as those of Mr Seville, who qualifies the General Budgets of the State of Birria. Of course, something else could hardly be expected from those who taught Mr Zapatero's economy in two afternoons, with the disastrous consequences that such advice had for the lives of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] What is really surprising is that Mr Sánchez has him again as a head economic adviser, no doubt a bad omen in the hypothetical event that you ever manage to rule, which I doubt much, because the Spanish people are much more sensible than you think. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you are out of reality, because it is the reality of the facts that gives credibility to these General State Budgets for 2016; it is economic growth, which will be this year of at least 3.3% and 3% in 2016; it is job creation, more than 500,000 new jobs this year and 600,000 next year; it is fiscal consolidation; it is exports, domestic consumption; it is all these data that endorse these budgets, to the extent that the Bank of Spain sees them feasible and the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, the AIReF, calls them credible and credible. I recommend that Mr Sánchez read the report of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, not only does the People's Parliamentary Group support these budgets, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and all the serious economic study centres do. All the national and international bodies - with nuances, that is, because they are forecasts - each and every one of them endorse the macroeconomic picture less you. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are the only ones who discuss them, and you do so more for a mere election calculation, that is, for the proximity of the general elections, than for economic or social reasons. But let's go for points. Firstly, they argue in their amendments that the public deficit target is not going to be met and they do so on the basis of a hypothetical non-compliance that would already occur in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, you are confusing your wishes with reality. The pace of fiscal consolidation this year is the right one, as the data for the first half of the year say, and it makes it possible to predict that this will be achieved. What will happen in 2016? What do you want me to tell them? We can ask ourselves this question: Who has more credibility, this government, which has met the public deficit targets in each and every one of the previous budgets - contrary to what Mr Sánchez said, in every and every one of the previous budgets we have met, and so has the European Union certified through Eurostat -, or the Socialist Party, which in 2011 had a deviation of nothing less than 50% from the deficit target, EUR 30 billion out of step with the budgeted? Who has more credibility, this government, which in the midst of a colossal crisis has been able to reduce the public deficit to less than half of what you left us, or you Socialists, who in two years have gone from a two-point surplus to a deficit of 11.2 - more than EUR 130 billion of difference in two years - something unheard of in a developed country that you alone have been able to achieve for the misfortune of the Spaniards? [[Applauds]] I repeat, who has the most credibility? Ladies and gentlemen, it always has more credibility than the one who does not, it has more credibility than the one who says the truth, Mr Rajoy's government, than the one who cheats and hides, which has been no more than the governments of the Socialist Party. If you don't believe me, perhaps the answer is in the fact that you now pay us for placing our debt, showing international investors the confidence they do have in this government, when you for that same debt had to pay interest over 5%. [[Applauds]] Secondly, all of you consider income forecasts to be unrealistic. What are they based on to say such things? The tax collection figures for what is going on in the year are magnificent, with increases of 5% - it was given yesterday morning by the Minister of Finance - and they are so good because in Spain, with the help of the People's Party, economic growth and job creation have returned. Economic growth has returned in all sectors: in industry, in tourism, in the services sector, in agriculture and in construction, timidly but also. What barbarity is that said by the Socialist Party in its amendment to the whole of the brick sector the only one that produces growth in this country? But have you read the reports of the Bank of Spain, the National Institute of Statistics, BBVA, Funcas, etc.? Who advises you? Who gives you the data? [[The Lord]] The reality is that we grow in all sectors and do so in a healthy way, not based on unorthodox private indebtedness, as in the years of economic bonanza. We do so especially because of the sharp increase in domestic consumption. Today you buy more cars, you buy more housing, more appliances, the small trade increases your sales the same as the large areas, the Spaniards we go on holiday mostly - there is nothing more to see the figures of the national tourism - the foreign tourists had never visited as much our country as at the moment. But it is also that exports are on record month by month, they are increasing at a rate of 5% per year and they will do so next year to 6%; that is why I was telling them that it is healthy growth, because it combines domestic demand with exports, not as it used to be. You all also criticise the tax rebate with the fallacious argument that it only benefits higher incomes. You see, tax collection is going very well, better than expected, even with the tax cut launched in January 2015, and it does so because we are in that so-called virtuous circle of the economy: more growth, more employment, more competitiveness, less taxes, more investment and again more growth. This is what has made it possible to advance the second IRPF rebate to July. In spite of this, revenue will be adequate for the maintenance of public services, as indicated by quarterly VAT declarations for SMEs, which are increasing at a rate of 10%. How can they say that tax cuts only benefit higher incomes? You can easily check how all people with middle and low incomes pay today even less IRPF than in 2011. We left the lowest tax rate at 19%, when you Socialists had it at 24%. There are things you can't say if you don't want to miss the truth, and you know perfectly well that in order to achieve good macroeconomic results it is necessary to focus tax savings on middle and low incomes, because they are millions of families that as a whole assume infinitely more than the high incomes that exist in Spain. You know it perfectly well. Therefore, do not pretend to deceive the Spaniards again. Ladies and gentlemen, let us lower taxes because we believe that it is best for Spain. The People's Party has always done so and will do so once again as soon as circumstances permit. It is true that in 2012 we had to ask the Spaniards for an effort because the inheritance received us to a rescue of our economy. Saved that very difficult stumbling block, as soon as possible we have lowered them, placing IRPF and corporate tax below what we find them. Thirdly, you criticized social spending. These are eminently social budgets, aimed at the recovery of the social well-being of families, dependent persons, persons with disabilities and in general the most disadvantaged in our society, and the reality - there is nothing more to check in the budget - is that by 2016 they are allocated 4,900 million more for social spending than in 2011. 53% of the total expenditure of the State General Budgets for 2016 is intended to cover the welfare state, and this is easy to see. Mr. Sánchez spoke yesterday about the scholarships and again did not tell the truth, because he stated that in these budgets the credit for scholarships was lower than in 2011. I'll tell you what the reality is. For 2016, EUR 1,416 million is earmarked for scholarships and study grants, a total of EUR 253 million more than you budgeted in 2011, and this is very easy to verify by going to the 2011 General Budgets that you approved in this House. Mr Sánchez also mentioned the dependency, and I will tell you that there are 360,769 new beneficiaries since January 2012 and that the waiting list has been reduced by 57 %. That's the reality. Throughout this legislature his criticism of the General Budgets of the State has varied. First they said that fiscal consolidation would lead us to the total rescue of our economy, and that danger is now completely overcome. You were wrong, and President Rajoy's government was right. Later, in 2013, they said that with the General Budgets of the State of the People's Party would never reach economic growth, which we were engaged in more recession. They were wrong again, and President Rajoy's government was right again. Growth began in mid-2013 and has continued to intensify in these more than two years. In 2014 they said yes, there was economic growth, but no jobs were created. They made a mistake again in their forecasts, and the government was right again, because we are creating jobs, we are creating a lot of jobs, more than a million new jobs since January 2014. [[Applauds]] Of course we cannot be satisfied, because we have not recovered everything that you destroyed - 3.5 million jobs destroyed by the socialists in one legislature - but if we continue along this path, by which you mark these General Budgets for 2016, we will achieve it in the next legislature. Finally, in 2015, after having to acknowledge that employment is created because the EPA certifies it every quarter, they argued that the job created is not of quality, which is temporary, but it turns out that the EPA - the minister has given them the data - also denies them and says that there is less temporary employment than when you ruled, that 75% of the Spanish workers have an indefinite contract and that with you only 74% had it. The EPA also tells them that indefinite employment is growing at 14.4% on an annual basis and full-time indefinite employment is growing at 17%. I imagine that you will appreciate the significant difference between the picture that the Socialist Party left us, when indefinite employment was destroyed in 2011 at a rate of 29%, and you, Mr Sánchez and all his team, were here applauding Mr Zapatero and Mr Sánchez personally was an active part of economic policy in this House, since he was undoubtedly participating in and supporting all the rules that the government brought. Yesterday Mr Sánchez was talking about active employment policies, but what is the model of the Socialist Party of active employment policies? The Andalusian model, where no 10% of what was budgeted for the whole year 2015 has been implemented to date? Is that your model, a spattered model in addition to constant cases of corruption? By the way, speaking of corruption, Mr Sánchez quoted it yesterday in the debate on the General Budgets of the State, but he has not yet been heard a word about the biggest case of corruption in the history of Spain, which are the EREs of Andalusia, with hundreds of millions of euros defrauded and hundreds of imputed, all of them linked to the Government of the Andalusian Board. [[Applauds]] Is that the model of protection for the unemployed supported by the Socialist Party? Finally, Socialists, I will make a recommendation to you. If you want to be taken seriously, there are things you can't say. How can you say that Mr Rajoy is a danger to the economy? What will the German socialists think when they hear them say these things, if Spain grows twice as much as Germany? What will the French socialists think when they hear them say these things, if Spain grows more than three times as much as France? What will the Italian socialists think when they hear them say these things, if we grow seven times more than Italy? What will any serious ruler think of you, if Spain is the example you set of how to get out of the crisis? [[Applauds]] Have you read today's Financial Times article - I recommend you do - under the title The Reforms of Spain. A lesson for the European Union? What will investors all over the world think when they read this and hear you say such things? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is absolutely clear is that the real danger to the Spanish economy is the Socialist Party, and I do not say it - which also says it - in history. Every time you leave the government you do it leaving Spain in ruins and with an unemployment of more than 24%. Every time you rule, you end up destroying our country. The last time you ruled, you left Spain on the verge of the rescue, and you did it on your own. I find it hard to think what would happen if you were ruling with your radical left partners, as you do in autonomous communities and municipalities. What would be the consequences for the Spanish? Stop, depression, corralite, rescue. Is that the future you offer the Spaniards? I conclude, Madam President. The Spanish called on the People's Party to come out of the deep hole in which the socialists put us, and we are getting it. We have done so by trying not to leave anyone behind, by safeguarding above all the welfare state, with much effort, with sacrifices, with structural reforms and by persevering in the right policies until recovery is achieved. It is a recovery that represents these general budgets of the State, which have a marked social character. They are budgets that give back to the Spaniards a part of the effort made and that will allow us to consolidate economic growth and job creation in our country. That is why they are good budgets, because they will allow Spain and the Spanish to consolidate a social state with more and better opportunities for all. That's the way, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Olano. Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I take the floor to thank the People's Parliamentary Group, to congratulate its spokesman today, Mr Olano, and, as I did yesterday, to highlight the political support and political stability that the People's Parliamentary Group has always provided. This group, supporting the Government, is relying not only on the Government of Spain but also on the Spanish. The Spanish are the protagonists of this economic recovery. It is that immense middle class, it is the workers, the entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the officials, the pensioners who are taking forward Spain, and therefore, in this final budget debate, it is to them that we have to show consideration, appreciation and gratitude for the effort made and for the confidence that the response of the Spanish society, which is opening the doors to solve definitively the economic crisis and the crisis of unemployment that has been so long for Spain, has been. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. In a few minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]] We shall proceed to the block vote on all amendments to the full refund submitted to the draft State General Budgets Act for 2016. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause.-An error occurs in the electronic panel and does not reflect the totality of votes cast]] It is clear that there has been a failure in the translation of yeses and noes which does not seem representative of the will of the House. The vote will therefore begin. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 337 votes in favour, 150 votes in favour, 151 votes against, 185 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u46	The full amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2016 are rejected. [[Mr Duran i Lleida asks for the floor]] Mr. Duran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u47	I don't know what color I have, but I want to make it clear that I voted yes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-26-CD150826.u48	It is recorded in the 'Diary of Sessions' of Mr Duran's words. The meeting rose. It was 12:30 at noon.
