ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u1	The meeting was resumed. The first item on the agenda is the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of Members' activities. The groups wishing to speak here have five minutes. As far as I am concerned, Mr Álvarez Sostres has the floor for the Joint Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Mr President, I take the floor from this rostrum to convey to you my position on the extremes of the opinion that we have before us by the Committee on the Statute of Deputies, following the meeting held by its members on Tuesday, 26 May, in order to resolve the declaration of compatibility of ten ladies and gentlemen. In that session, all the extremes of the same were analysed, in particular a dossier containing several writings and documents on the declaration of compatibility of Mr Agustín Conde Bajén, in which, after news appeared in the media, the declaration of compatibility of the said Member was called into question. That dossier gave rise to a report by the Legal Counsel of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies with the relevant conclusions and was submitted to the consideration and subsequent vote of the members of that Committee. My party's political position was contrary to approving Mr Conde's file, specifically saving my vote, and to considering the situation of the nine remaining Members with my undoubted vote positive for the purposes of the opinion. Several are my considerations in this regard. Firstly, that throughout the legislature I have moved in countless speeches what my position is on issues affecting public morals and the exemplary value of public servants, and we are, from the President of the Government to the last of public officials and positions. Secondly, it is therefore necessary to push for changes that hinder darkness and opacity in the life of public responsibility and that promote the much-needed cleanliness and transparency in the public exercise of these responsibilities. In my view, it is imperative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House itself in Rule 19 and the powers of the Commission itself to investigate, investigate and declare property, in order to contribute to the real exercise of the transparency so requested by this House and by society as a whole. Any delay in this field only contributes to fossilising and sterilising its own functioning and to making this Commission merely formal and artificial. Thirdly, in the light of Mr Advocate's own report, which expresses itself on an activity which has now been declared to have been declared to be previously - and which follows quotation marks - to consider that, beyond whether it was compatible or not, such an omission since the adoption by this House of the Commission's opinion of 25 April 2012, i.e. more than three years ago, is unacceptable and inconceivable in my opinion, as would be the case in the legal framework of the Civil Service itself. Fourthly, I express my opinion - already forwarded to the President of the Commission - that the dossiers of any order, but rather those files of a controversial nature, can be examined in advance of the Commission meeting, so that the opinions, and where appropriate resolutions, are based on an in-depth analysis of the dossiers submitted. Finally, I would like to say how inappropriate it is for me to present a single but unique opinion for its adoption, which obliges me to request a separate vote on Mr Agustín Conde Bajén's controversial file. And given the regulatory constraints, I will not support it, and I will also save my vote explicitly from the effects of the final vote in this House. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor, as I have pointed out here. Do you want to intervene? [[Denial]] Well, I especially appreciate it. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I am transferring to the plenary the views already expressed by my parliamentary group in the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. We are faced with a situation that had not appeared in this House until now in theory. The statements of Members are based in particular on a concept: the concept of trust, thinking that what Members and Members declare is true and, therefore, believing from here that it is compatible or incompatible with the law and the rules of the House that they have expressed. But what happens when one of these statements is found to omit sensitive information and therefore confidence cannot remain the same? We're dealing with that case. Our parliamentary group has called for mixed reports on the activities of two Members of this House, Mr Agustín Conde and Mr Vicente Martínez-Pujalte, in the belief that some of their statements are insufficient, to say the least, and we therefore need to know whether or not they have declared it true and whether or not their activities are compatible with their status as Members. We were told in that debate that a report has already been presented to us - this - with an opinion on the activities of Don Agustín Conde. [[Show a document]] What's the problem? I repeat, this report is based on trust. And trust, as I said before, has been broken and must be rebuilt. So, what do we ask for? We're asking for a mixed report. Firstly, we want to know whether what the Member says is true or not and whether it is reality. If that is not done, we obviously cannot vote in favour of this statement. Secondly, we would ask for this piece to be separated and for a separate vote to be taken on the dossier concerning Mr Agustín Conde. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group, as you know perfectly well, has always tried to act with utmost prudence, with utmost rigour and respect for principles of democratic loyalty in these matters, and here too our attitude will be guided by the same elements. We participated, as could not be otherwise, in the debate within the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. I would like to tell the honourable Members that they are not part of this Commission - in which I participate as a secretary - that, in my opinion, as far as Mr Conde is concerned, this Committee on the Statute of Deputies has done its work rigorously and its opinion is in line with the demand for what has been requested, that is, let us see under what circumstances these proceedings have taken place or not, let us see whether it is clear from the statements that something has been done or not. In this respect, our group has stated that the three points referred to by Mr Conde reflect, in our view, the reality. First of all, Mr. Count is in a position to be activated as a voluntary reservist of the Navy. There is no problem, it is an action from which there are already other precedents and therefore it has no elements to highlight. Secondly, the most controversial but far-reaching issue from the real and factual point of view, which is what citizens may be interested in, which is their activity as the sole administrator of an entity that has not come to act in a real way. The Committee on the Statute of Deputies acknowledges that - I read in text - this activity must have been declared, it was not done, although it was then made aware that this activity had not involved any action and has already been abandoned. Therefore, this is a real picture of the situation so that everyone can judge accordingly. The Committee on the Statute of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, is not a court, it should not be seen as a court of inquiry, it is simply a framework in which transparency is possible. The Committee on the Statute of Deputies has therefore done its duty in this case by stating exactly what has happened and the scope of it so that everyone can assess, on the basis of whatever criteria, the consequences or not of a given action. Has there been a fact out of the ordinary that no activity was declared at the time? Certainly. Did this activity have real content? It is clear from the Commission's documentation that no real action has been taken. Is this situation absolutely normalized right now? It is. Therefore, on the basis of these transparent facts, citizens can express their particular judgment. As a fellow Member, as a member of this Commission and as a representative of a political party, I believe that we must be very fine and very strict in fulfilling our obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the environment at the moment can lead to great suffering, but transparency, democratic regeneration and the fact that citizens know what everyone does does does not need great inquisitors; it needs clarity, transparency, goodwill, to get away from the great words, to get away from the great judgments and to stick to strict compliance with obligations. This is what we have done and, therefore, from here we can be satisfied with the action of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mr Echávarri has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. The opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies, which is to be voted on today, concerns statements of activities made by ten Members of this House. Almost all of them, or nine of them, have submitted the statement which gives rise to the opinion on the occasion of their discharge as members of this House or because there has been some change in the circumstances stated above and there is no reason in these statements to make a special account of any of these aspects. Therefore, my group will endorse them. But one of the statements tabled did not result from any modification of the activities; I am referring to that of the Member of Parliament, Count Bajén. Leaving aside today and without going into the matter of its activation as a voluntary reservist of the Navy, the Commission's opinion on Mr Conde has as its apparent origin an out-of-time statement, by which this Member communicates to the House circumstances and activities that were not communicated when it should have been done, that is, when it took possession at the beginning of the legislature. Mr Conde declared two activities at the beginning of the legislature: that of the sole administrator of a legal advisory service and that of the exercise of the legal profession. More than three years later, the MP reports that he has also been the sole administrator of Eco-Witt, a limited company, and the empowerment in his favour of two companies, the Altamira Real Estate and Santander Holding Fund Management, both subsidiaries of the Banco de Santander. The question anyone could ask is: Did Congressman Count suddenly remember his activity for these companies? No, your statement does not respond to a sudden memory, but to what I'm going to detail below. These activities were of public knowledge not because of the update of the statement by the Member himself, but thanks to information from a media outlet. In fact, the Member's first reaction was to recognize the ownership of the company, but he did not want to confirm the advisory activities included in the information, claiming the confidentiality of his activity as a lawyer. The Socialist Parliamentary Group therefore called for the activation of the procedure provided for in the Agreement of the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies of 29 May 1990 conferring powers on the Committee on the Statute of Deputies to investigate matters of public interest relating to the declared activities of Members. What does the Group of the European People's Party intend to do, the only group that has, of course, supported this Member's favourable opinion and approved it in this House? It seeks three things: that we tacitly endorse the closure of the investigation that was requested by the Socialist Group; that, in relation to the ownership and administration of the Eco-Witt company, although it should have declared it at the beginning of the legislature, there is nothing wrong with having done so in the absence of a few weeks before it ends, and thirdly, that the authorizations for the provision of services in subsidiary entities of a financial institution do not violate the regime of incompatibilities provided for in the Loreg. We cannot support this opinion in its entirety, we cannot endorse what Mr Conde has said, and we will do so in the vote, which is also separate. Because it will be as much as refusing to answer many questions raised in this case, among others, the following. Is it reasonable, as the People's Parliamentary Group claims, that a member of this House, already being a Member of this House, should constitute and act as the sole administrator of a society whose part of its social purpose is the commercialization of electricity, and that we should now accept a forced and late declaration, more than three years later and without any verification, which, according to that Member, has in practice not been devoted to these activities? Can it be maintained that services cannot be provided in financial institutions but that there is no inconvenience in doing the same service for financial institutions, as if there was no general regime of absolute dedication and incompatibility for the performance of paid jobs for others in article 157 of the Loreg? Do we have to accept that this House does not have any instrument, even if it is only from political responsibility, to verify that the conditions for authorisation of a private activity are met? No, no, We cannot accept the answer that the People's Parliamentary Group wants to give, and we cannot accept, in particular, that with all these open questions it is intended to close down, not to the investigation requested by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but to a minimum check of the circumstances that the Member himself claims in his writing. We are not going to accept it and we are not going to vote in favour of this Member. And citizens will also not accept what you want this House to say, that they cannot avoid complying with the laws that affect them but that when it comes to Members there is no problem in circumventing the regime of dedication and incompatibilities, or, what is the same, the laws that affect us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Echávarri. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) to set out its position on today's opinion on the adoption of this plenary. But let me make a few reflections on the functioning of the Committee on the Statute of the Member before I do so. And I am a little surprised by some statements I have seen in the press from some member of this House and especially from the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Look at what's more curious. We're in the X Legislature. Well, the Socialist Group has chaired this Commission on six occasions and on the other four it has been its vice-president, and what a coincidence it has never, ever objected to the incompatibilities, the regime of incompatibilities, or the criteria for the functioning of this Commission, not even to the legal principles that have been applied in it. I do not know whether now, driven by the extremism and radicalism that his secretary-general has imposed on the group, certainly by the fear that they have taken over the group of Podemos, their criteria have changed and hence the intervention of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Well, although the speech before me may give me another feeling, I would first like to say that this Commission has been, to this day - I do not know what it will be from now on - a Commission that is different from the others, completely different from the others. And their difference is that here, in this Commission, technical or legal work has prevailed over the political or political value that each member of the Commission may have been interested in in each case. Opinions from the Committee on the Statute of Deputies are essentially technical documents based on the application of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime in accordance with the practices and precedents established by the Commission itself. This has been the case since the first legislature and especially since the implementation of the Loreg in 1985. I agree with the Spokesman of the Convergence Group that, in fact, this Commission is neither an investigative court nor the police. We are looking at the activities which the honourable Members have told us, asking for clarification and deciding on incompatibilities, always according to the precedents they have set, and we have done so on this occasion. I therefore find it unfair to see that the Commission makes it possible to do anything and to modify its approach in each case. With regard to the opinion, allow me, Mr President of the Socialist Group, to say to you that what you have come to say here in this rostrum is not in line with reality. The Socialist Parliamentary Group sent a letter to the Bureau of the House denouncing the activities of a Member of the People's Parliamentary Group requesting that we conduct an investigation into it in relation to the possible breach of Rule 17 of the House's Rules of Procedure, i.e. the possible trade in influence. And it was not the Committee on the Statute of Deputies that refused to carry out this investigation but the Bureau of the House itself, which is the one that is leading the work of this Parliament. Indeed, in its agreement - registry number 192791 - it tells us exactly that, in relation to the letter which your Honor submitted, we would confine ourselves to examining the activities of the Member in relation to paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 19 of the Regulation, i.e. exclusively on the compatibility or incompatibility of the activities which had been denounced by the Socialist Group by echoing what was broadcast in the media. And the President of the Commission did nothing but ask the Commission's lawyer for an opinion - and I hope, Socialists, that his new situation does not make them doubt the impartiality, objectivity, and the preparation and competence of the legal services of this House, I hope not; at least we do not do so - and the lawyer's opinion was very clear: firstly, the activity of external advice to a credit institution is not included in Article 159.2 of the House's Rules of Procedure and is therefore a compatible activity, it is the practice of the profession of lawyer for which we are authorized by many Members of this House; secondly, an activity as a sole administrator of a private company - which, according to the Member himself, had not been declared because it was the administration of his own property and believed that it was not necessary to declare it - it is also compatible; that is, it had not been declared and is compatible. And what we have done has been to turn the report from the legal services of the House to the Commission's opinion. Both activities are therefore compatible. Ladies and gentlemen, they want us to continue to investigate, that is, they want us to breach the law and we want us to breach the mandate of the Bureau of the House, and this parliamentary group is not going to do it, it is going to comply with the law, as we have done with the opinion. That is why I ask the House to adopt this opinion in order to ensure that we strictly comply with the law and, of course, as I said at the beginning, we move away from any political opportunism such as that pursued by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Romero. When we proceed to vote, we shall vote differently, as requested by the groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u11	Senate amendments. We will begin, first, with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on the granting of Spanish nationality to Sephardics originating in Spain who justify such a condition and their special connection with Spain, amending article 23 of the Civil Code and regulating the procedure for the acquisition of Spanish nationality by residence. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Iñarritu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain, from Amaiur, we would like to point out, first of all, that today will be an important step in the interests of redressing the tragedy that led to the expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Jews from the kingdoms that make up the Spanish State today and that it was one of the greatest intellectual, cultural and pluralistic losses that has impoverished the State in all these areas. [[Pronounce words in Hebrew]] The context in which such expulsion took place is framed in several centuries of imposing a single religion, a single culture and a single language, in which the sword and the cross rode together to this day. This has meant the repression of cultures, religions and languages different from the idea of the Catholic national and the consequences of all that have come to our day. That is why we, the Basque sovereignists, regardless of our position in favour of Basque nationality, believe that it is a good thing that this State recognizes the nationality of all and all the descendants of the people who were expelled from the realms that make up this State today. Having said that, we also want to show our disappointment as this law, which had a healing and justice vocation, has increasingly become a more difficult path. If we look at the procedure, the conditions, the number of documents to be submitted, sworn translations, fees, language and cultural examinations and have to travel to the State, we cannot help wondering what the reason for all these difficulties is. If this law had the reparatory vocation of an injustice in which expulsions, exploitations and uproots took place, it would logically have been that it had been done without all this procedure being so burdensome for the applicants. If you have calculated how much this whole procedure will cost each of the applicants, you will see that it will range from at least €4,000 to €6,000 for each of the members. Why has it not been possible to carry out these procedures in the consulates and has it been preferred that it be before the notary? Why only a three-year period, extending to four, and why not sine die if it is about redressing an injustice? Don't set deadlines. Why a State and language knowledge exam? Why has the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain not been given a greater role, which has the representation of these communities before the competent authorities in the State and which would have facilitated the procedures? All these facts lead us to believe that the Government has a clear intention that the less applicants, the better, and with the economic filter it ensures that only those members with a high purchasing power can apply for nationality. Similarly, given the complexity of both travel and exams, only young people will be able to do so. As the Jewish proverb says: For an old man every hill is a mountain. You already know that it is difficult for older people to cope with such complications and obstacles. Last year, a member of the Sephardic Jewish community in the northern Basque Country, when I commented on this new law, told me that he did not trust that it would be carried out and that, if it was concluded, it would be difficult to gain access to nationality. Recently, this person told me that they would give him a Nobel Prize more easily than Spanish nationality. Taking all these elements into account, we consider that one cannot speak of a reparation; this law is more a symbol, a first step, but not a law that serves to satisfy the majority of Sephardics, who would like to access Spanish nationality. Finally, we would also like to take advantage of the adoption of this law to request that similar laws be promoted in the future for other groups descended from persons expelled and retrieved by the State during history. In short, we consider it a positive first step, but we hope that in the future this law resulting from the limiting will of the People's Party and its absolute majority can be modified to make the conditions of access more flexible and all Sephardics who so wish can apply for Spanish nationality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I regret not having knowledge of the Hebrew language as my predecessor in the use of the word has shown, not even of the Ladin, that it is the language of the Sephardics. In any case, I greet you in Spanish to congratulate us all. Minister, it is well that ends well, although it ends 500 years after the expoliation of a right, as happened with the issue of the edict of Queen Elizabeth I in 1492, which caused the expulsion of a collective who, by virtue of the expressions recorded in the statement of reasons of this bill - which already marks in the excellent lirism - caused the expulsion of persons who were immersed in the kingdoms of Spain, recording their contributions from the broader perspectives - industrial, commercial, cultural...- whose memory was engraved on stone, which maintained a flow of nostalgia when they were expelled and which also did not show any kind of grudge when they were expelled. I would like to know who has written a statement of reasons with this important lyrical quality, and especially how he has been able to carry out an empirical test difficult to carry out when he says that they left or were expelled without any grudge. I was saying, Minister, that it is never too late to do justice; not even 500 years later it is too late to do justice. We are doing justice through the provision of the possibility of reaching Spanish nationality through the mechanism provided for in article 23 of the Civil Code, mainly through the so-called letter of nature, which does not oblige us to renounce the other nationality which the Sephardics who wish to opt for the acquisition of Spanish nationality currently possess. There's a lot to repair here, a lot has happened in history. Sephardics expelled from the Kingdom of Spain had to be located in other countries - mainly Balkan, but also in Greece, Egypt... -, suffering avatars of all kinds: 200,000 remained during World War II under the German administration and many of them were exterminated in concentration camps. The debt of gratitude to this collective that apparently maintained the flow of nostalgia with the original state of belonging, with the kingdoms of Spain, forces us to adopt a measure of these characteristics. Minister, the Senate brings us little news with the amendments adopted in it, but some cause us certain intellectual reservations. The knowledge - very similar to the tests of integration of foreigners provided for in the Aliens Act; the test of integration on whose legitimacy we have always had doubts -, for example, of the Spanish constitutional law by the Sephardics to obtain Spanish nationality, which we could also extend to a sufficient knowledge of the constitutional law by the Spanish and I will dare say that even in this very House - perhaps we would take some surprise in relation to the knowledge of the Spanish constitutional law by the deputies who make up this House -; the knowledge of the language - would have to ask the Tachygraph Corps whether all the deputies of this House have a domain of language, handling the syntax in an appropriate way and the linguistic correction required of a deputy whose job is to pray, is to perform from the rostrum or from his bench speeches that have to be grammatically well configured -. They are requirements added to other requirements: certificate of the president or similar office of the Jewish community of the area of residence - an accreditation element that we consider relevant -, certificate of the competent rabbinic authority for the family language, the use of the ladin, and some archaisms that are contained in the bill that you present to us and that we fail to understand. What, for example, does the failure to resolve marriage according to the marriage systems provided for in the old Spanish law mean? We should have undertaken an update on archaisms of this nature - in fact, some of the amendments tabled by my group referred to this circumstance - and above all the irrelevance that you confer on something as identifying to a Sephardic person as possessing a Sephardic surname, which is absolutely irrelevant. Minister, I'm going to end up like I started. Good is what ends well, even if it is too late in time. Isabel I, a political figure, as it is now said, overvalued by some mercenary historians by patriotic elements, expelled them. Another queen, Elizabeth II, began authorizing Jewish cemetery in the Spanish state. Práxedes Mateo Sagasta began to authorize the location of synagogues in the Spanish state. Senator Pulido managed to force a royal decree of the Government in 1924, which until 1930 allowed the acquisition of Spanish nationality of 3,000 Sephardics. We do not know why the treaty that enabled this royal decree to acquire Spanish nationality was interrupted, but in 1930 this possibility ended, without the express repeal of this royal decree that enabled the acquisition of Spanish nationality. This bill, with the reservations and with the requirements - some doubts - that I have stated will enable all Sephardics who exceed the elements of accreditation commented on as regards their status as Sephardics - to think about the surname, minister; it seems to us relevant - and that, in addition, they have sufficient knowledge of Spanish constitutional law - something that is not required even to hold the status of MP - and a sufficient knowledge of the Spanish language, they will be able to acquire Spanish nationality. It would not be a bad thing if this good knowledge of the Spanish language were also required of Members of this House. In any case, Minister, let's end by saying, paraphrase again to Locke, that it is never too late to do justice, although this delay is triggered 500 years after the original expoliation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u16	Thank you, President. I also greet the Sephardic communities on behalf of our group, Union Progreso and Democracy. I greet you in our common language and welcome you to this Chamber and to our common homeland on the basis of the law that is to be passed today. As has been said, this is a historic remedy which deserves, in its treatment, a singularity. When we discussed the amendments in their entirety, the debate on the requirement of singularity was opened when dealing with Sephardics. There are many collectives who deserve historical reparation because they have been mistreated in the modern era, but no one has any doubt that what happened to the Sephardics has a singularity and that is why it deserves a particular law; a law that I hope we adopt - as was done in the Commission - unanimously or, at least, with a very broad consensus. Spain had some of the oldest anti-Semitic laws in the West, such as the Visigoth Sisebutus law in 612; a law that limited the right to property to Jews and provided for the death sentence of a Jew who converted a Christian. I think it's worth remembering these things. As you know, the convert, in turn, was sold as a slave. These are our background, the background we want to repair today. Despite Catholic anti-Semitism and legal discrimination under many different formulas, the Spanish Jewish community - the Sephardic - became one of the largest, most influential and most active in Western Europe. Toledo, Córdoba, Zaragoza, León, Gerona, Tudela were authentic reference centers of Jewish culture of the highest level that was, at the same time, Spanish culture. They were a reference of our culture, of our community, of the community of all, which includes us all. Throughout the 14th century there were violent attacks and massacres of Jews in all the peninsular kingdoms; massacres that forced many Jews to convert to force and practice their religion and traditions clandestinely. At the time of the decree of expulsion of the Catholic Kings that has already been cited here, the Sephardic community amounted to tens of thousands of families who rejected the forced conversion offered to them as the only alternative to continue living in Spain. In modern times, forced conversion has also been something that we Spaniards have known; even if it wasn't for forced conversion to a religion, forced conversion to totalitarianism from another sign we have also suffered many Spaniards, particularly those who live in the Basque lands; if we wanted to continue living we had to convert, and if we didn't, we were at risk of being killed. It was a political aberration that happened; a political aberration that impoverished the country in every sense and ended, for many centuries, with tolerance and religious pluralism. I think that is something we must remember today too. It had that consequence: ending political tolerance and political and religious pluralism. This law that we are going to pass, which returns Spanish nationality to its descendants, is a moral reparation, the recognition of a serious and harmful historical error that is still in force: anti-Semitism because it is. Anti-Semitism is still in force in our country - it must be remembered -; even if it is not protected by the laws, anti-Semitism is still present among us and we must say it - who at least we think so - in this House, which is that of the representation of all Spaniards. That is why this law represents a symbol of reconciliation of a predominantly plural society: today's Spain, democratic Spain, constitutional Spain. That is why it is up to us and it is up to us to do so now and in this way. It is therefore a question of redressing, as I said, a historical injustice; it is a question of recognizing the right to have a homeland for those whom the bill itself calls Spanish without a homeland, the recognition of all their rights of citizenship. This law must contribute - I am sure - to closing wounds and repairing, in the people of their descendants, the consequences of the oppression and persecution they suffered. Paraphrasing and remembering Primo Levi: Since understanding is impossible, remembering is a duty. Our memory, our appreciation and our welcome, and also our request for forgiveness. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at any time, and this is the case, it is appropriate to recover the memory and perform an act of reparation. Walter Benjamin said that memory is the story of the defeated, the humiliated and the offended. Today we would have the opportunity to remember and that this act was an act of reparation, but I think it is not or insufficiently so. This act is a political gesture. I could also say that it is a scarring gesture because, far from recognizing nationality in terms of historical reparation, it adds a new procedure of acquiring nationality by a tortuous and scarring method - as has been said in this House - to those already existing. If we add to this the practice of the People's Party of mixing barbecues with merinas, we must add the obsessions of the proposing group about who should manage nationality - in this case, external management, notaries - and set a rate for the fulfilment of nationality that comes to confuse this text even more. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group withdrew the amendment as a whole and hoped that these aspects would be overcome in the parliamentary procedure. It wasn't like that. The parliamentary process summarizes as few the parliamentary process of government reforms in the area of justice. First it was only the recognition of nationality to Sephardics; later it was a new procedure of acquisition of nationality by residence; moreover, other aspects were mixed on the management of nationality; the People's Parliamentary Group itself introduced amendments that later withdrew; we have twice changed the title of the law... Ladies and gentlemen, in the end one does not know very well what is the result of all this, but the confusion; confusion which, in our opinion, leaves the subjects of this reform, the Sephardics, dissatisfied, and in the same way leaves others dissatisfied. There is no act of partial reparation if that political gesture causes grievances and injustices to others. In order for parliamentary groups to withdraw the amendment, the Government undertook to see other special situations, even if they are not comparable: Moriscos, people born in Sidi Ifni, Saharans, grandchildren of Spaniards who no longer have Spanish nationality... A number of issues that are pending for the recognition of Spanish nationality. Well, the government where I said, Diego and, finally, that commitment to negotiation and dialogue with parliamentary groups has not existed. Therefore, as I said, partial reparation, a political gesture that does not satisfy the subjects who fundamentally have to be recognized in this law, the Sephardics, and that creates situations of aggravation with other collectives. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it was an opportunity to carry out a substantive amendment of our nationality legislation which, on the one hand, is dispersed in various contradictory laws and which, on the other hand, should have been approved in the higher framework that we have, which is the European Union. Nor do these matters seem important to the Government and we have seen how this opportunity for reparation and memory in the sense that it referred to before Walter Benjamin has not been used, nor has it been done to reform and organize our nationality legislation. Using a figure of Benjamin, he is the angel who turns his gaze back on history and sees the rubble of this law: the rubble of memorylessness, the rubble of the lack of justice and the lack of reparation. That feeling we have today with this law, and it is that, ladies and gentlemen, reforms have many enemies, as Machiavello said. Reforms have as enemies those who are affected by them and those who do not trust to be benefited by them, but if the reform has poor quality not only has enemies, it has legitimately many frustrations, many grievances and many disagreements. My group is not going to hinder this procedure - we are now withdrawing the amendment as a whole - but we must express our dissatisfaction with the specific recognition of nationality for the Sephardic people and with other matters that are still pending and which we hope at some point we can address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. Mr Jané has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks also to the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Justice for their presence in this plenary, in which a law that is historic is to be passed, it is a historic reparation; a law that has many hopes behind it. It has already been said by other spokespersons that it is a historic remedy after 500 years of an unjust situation that this law seeks to redress. Therefore, go ahead with the support of Convergence i Joined this bill. We join the initial consensus and the consensus that was also unanimously agreed in the Committee on Justice. We are in favour of this law, in favour of consensus and in favour of historical reparation, but let us not be fooled, there are many hopes and hopes that will be frustrated by this law once it comes into force. So, determined support, yes, but let us not deceive ourselves, we are more before a law window than before a law that in practice actually has the effects that we would all initially want it to have. We have highlighted in our amendments in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate and in the debates in the Commission and in paper the serious shortcomings of this bill. It's a more gestural than effective bill. Is it important to approve? Yeah. Should we back him up? Yeah. Full solidarity with all those who have helped us to push it forward and who have been fighting for years to achieve this historic reparation that we are going to adopt with solemnity today, yes, but also being aware that this bill, which will be law after its publication in the BOE and which will begin to apply from October, has very serious shortcomings because it is a race of obstacles, since we are making it very difficult for the descendants of those Sephardics, who will have to travel to prove it, with the expenses that it entails, and perhaps not even to obtain nationality afterwards. Let us be honest because, if not, today we are going to transfer to public opinion a great consensus around a necessary law but then those who legitimately are going to pretend that this law has its fruits, which is to obtain nationality - not only to grant them nationality; for many of them it is to regain a nationality that they should have historically had - will find themselves faced with obstacles. Therefore, let us be aware that we have not done quite well. We ask for proof of the status of Sephardic originating in Spain and we also ask for proof of the special connection with Spain. Two macroprocesses in which you can possibly get one and not the other, with which all the expenses, papers and bureaucracy of the first process will not have served at all. Even, if I may from the Government, there have been hesitations about the rate. First, a fee is placed in the initial bill, then with great propaganda it is explained that we have already abolished the fee and then in the Senate that fee is reintroduced. That improvisation is not good because we give contradictory messages. According to the fact that there is an expense on the part of the public administration in putting in place all this electronic procedure, but it is also true that we are going to demand a fee of 100 euros from people who will have the illusion of regaining that nationality and who will finally not be able to recover it because they will perhaps find themselves with a stone on that road of obstacles to which this bill leads us in order to finally achieve that hypothetical granting of nationality. We will give our support but it is critical support because we regret that the bill cannot be improved. I'll give you an example. Convergence i Unió managed to introduce in Congress an important amendment to the single transitional provision to allow those who had already started obtaining nationality by the current Civil Code, if they now try to start a new file in accordance with the new law can do so. Even in this case, and thanks to an amendment of Convergence i Union in the Senate, it is said in text that they will be able to do so either personally or through an authorized person. I ask the Minister of Justice, who is going to have the responsibility to develop this bill, why do we not legislate that, always through an authorized person, a citizen is actually allowed to insist on this granting of nationality because he is Sephardic, because he is a descendant, because he believes that this particular connection is special? Why don't we also allow him to do so through an authorized person? It is not allowed, we make a contribution that is misleading. We say that there is a legal representative, but only for minors, for people who are disabled and have a legal representative, but a citizen who wants to urge such a procedure will have to move, perhaps once and for all, and these movements have a cost. We are therefore opening up a procedure which, in addition to the EUR 100 rate, will have additional costs so that perhaps in the end they are not granted. That is why I am asking the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs - who I know of the government's will in this bill and I thank all the rapporteurs for the effort they have made - to try to make things easier in their development because there are many longings, many historical reparations that would deserve easier treatment, not so many tests, so many requirements, so many examinations. Mr Olabarría said it very well, so many obstacles are required on the way, tests, tests that we do not know if at this point, with so many years of delay, we now have to impose on those who legitimately want to benefit from the future law. I express my appreciation for the consensus reached, it is a truly historic day, but let us not be fooled by false disclosures of the goodness of a law that was necessary but that is not going to apply in the way we would have liked some of those who today will vote yes to this bill. I conclude by thanking all those who have contributed to the drafting of this bill, all the rapporteurs, too - if I may say so - people who have contributed to us. I want to remind Don Rubén Agote, Dona Carmen Mur. I want to remind Don Elias Bendahan, I want to remind lawyer Antonio Gómez Guiu and his representatives in Israel that they are really preparing to implement this bill. I would like to remind the jurist of our parliamentary group, Mrs Patricia Lezcano, because she has done a great deal of work to channel many amendments that came from all over and thus make it easier for this bill to really implement, which is the granting of nationality, that historic reparation, and to make it easier has not been possible for 100 per cent, but, to the extent that we have all tried to improve this bill, that is what ends well. Therefore, all our support also to the Government for the development of this bill, this future law with the utmost consensus, but with the utmost generosity so that those obstacles, those stones on the road and those difficulties can really be solved with an application that is agile and generous because in the face of that historical injustice what we need, ministers and ladies and gentlemen, is a great deal of generosity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. Mrs Silva has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. We greet with affection the Sephardics who are accompanying us in the House today. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has from the outset supported the proposal to grant nationality to Sephardics originating in Spain. We have supported him and we continue to do so. We believe that it is fair to recognize the right to Spanish nationality because it represents, and here all the spokespersons have said, a historic reparation to which we were obliged. Five hundred years late, but today we have the honour of participating in this historic reparation. We are therefore doing justice and responding to a debt owed to the Jewish community that was unjustly expelled from our country but, ladies and gentlemen, my group wants to show its total rejection of the way in which this bill has been dealt with. We must denounce it because what is not denounced seems to have not existed and we believe that the modus operandi of the People's Party should be recorded. The Group of the European People's Party has shown once again, but multiplied by infinity, its lack of respect for the Spanish Parliament. They pervert the legislative technique over and over again. It's embarrassing what you've done with this law. This is the story. The Government is introducing a specific bill for the granting of nationality to Sephardics originating in Spain, which was undoubtedly an improvement and in the parliamentary process in Congress, the People's Group is submitting an amendment to the law as a whole, but, yes, through partial amendments. Introduce through the back door and without giving an option to establish a position on the part of the rest of the groups a modification no more or less than the procedure for the acquisition of nationality by residence by introducing an integration examination. They modify the procedure for acquiring nationality from the Sephardics, change the rate that the Government had set for tariffs, and amend the body responsible for regulating the electronic procedure that goes from the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to the Spanish College of Property and Mercantile Registrars. The People's Group is actually introducing a new law by taking away from the rest of the groups their right to establish a position on matters of such relevance. We have moved from a specific law of recognition of sefardians to a bat burrillo of general rules concerning nationality. My group denounced it in the Committee on Justice and we are voting in particular against these democratic abuses, yes, democratic abuses. You refused to listen to us and approved all the partial amendments which you had tabled and which radically changed the text forwarded by the Government that the People's Group supports. When we already believed that we were faced with the height of political defeat, we find that in the Senate they practically return to the original text presented by the Government. Once again, by way of fact and by means of partial amendments, they present a new amendment to the whole, this time to the draft submitted by the Congress of Deputies. A spurt, ladies and gentlemen, that would not have occurred to the best Valle-Inclán. So we will now proceed to adopt amendments from the Senate that turn out to be a return to the initial text presented by the Government; it is not to believe that. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, show total disrespect for the legislative power. They use their absolute majority no longer as a roller, but as an apisonator of the rights of parliamentary groups. Someday someone will study the procedure that has been followed in this law and will be surprised that once there was a Government and a political group, the Popular, that all democratic principles were skipped for the sake of interests that this way of acting becomes illegitimate. However, you did not want to accept many of the amendments of the groups represented in Congress and in the Senate that referred to the need to also repair rights to other collectives and our emigrants. They refused to support initiatives relating to Saharans and Moriscos; they refused to recognize the nationality of descendants of Spanish emigrants who were excluded from the right to nationality. Yes, you travel a lot to other countries, but a lot, a lot. Spanish emigrants live there and tell them that they are right to claim Spanish nationality but then, in Parliament, they deny them bread and water. This is how you act, lack the truth and deceive citizens. That's right, with total peace of mind. They have been hit hard in the past municipal and autonomous elections. [[Count Bassen: Well, that's yours!]] Wait till you see the terrible warp, Mr Count, from our emigrants in the next and near general elections. They're going to be billed for their lack of sensitivity and for cheating on them. We, the Socialist Party, Mr Count, will repair your lack of sensitivity and commitment - do not doubt it - when we return to the Government of Spain, and it will be very soon. I would like to mention Pedro Zerolo, who always defended the rights of emigrants and all the collectives to whom their historical rights had to be repaired. [[Applauds]] It has been an example for all socialists and I, humbly, have tried to take their proposals and reflections very much into account. Thank you, Zerolo, therefore. I told them at the beginning of my speech that my group has shown, since the Government introduced the bill on the granting of nationality to Sephardics, its willingness to recognize nationality to Jews from Spain. We will also support this procedure, although we will vote against the amendments referring to charging a fee because we strongly advocate that the acquisition of rights should not be subject to price. Nor are we going to vote in favour of the amendment on evidence to support the special link with Spain. In matters relating to people's legal status, it is unacceptable that a test should be ruled unilaterally, by a large majority of the people's party. We will vote against it being the Minister of Justice who regulates the electronic procedure for obtaining the nationality of residence, letter of nature or dispensation. This is an open door to privatization and we want to show our total rejection of it. It may be acceptable, Minister, that management should be commissioned on an ad hoc basis, but not that what must clearly be public should be left in private hands. We are pleased, however, that you have turned your backs on promoting a new regulation for the acquisition of nationality by residence and that you have admitted some improvements that will facilitate the acquisition of nationality by Sephardics. We are delighted that you have accepted the amendment tabled by my group, which will now enable persons with disabilities to have equal access to Spanish nationality. We will vote in favour of the amendments that improve the text, but I do not want to end without re-indicating the delay in the processing of this law. You, the People's Group, deform legislative power with your deeds and do so in a way that is grotesque and very questionable. I do not want to describe what they have done as a legislative fraud, but it seems, as it is said on my land, it seems. From the parliamentary procedure we are positive that the Sephardics originating in Spain can obtain Spanish nationality; they deserve it, it is a right they deserve. Everything else is to set an example of what a Government should not do and what a parliamentary group should not do. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Silva. Mr Elorriaga has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u24	Thank you very much, President. I would like to welcome everyone, the President of the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain, Mr Isaac Querub, the President of the Sephardic House and all the friends and representatives of the Jewish community in Spain who are with us today. Shalom. I would like to begin by thanking all groups very sincerely for the enormous cooperation they have provided in the handling of this bill since its inception and also for their interventions, without prejudice to the fact that I must express my regret to the spokesman for the Socialist Group. I just don't think he's been up to it. [[Count Bassen: As never before!]] It is not up to the circumstances to bring the voting procedure for non-resident Spaniards to debate today. It is a procedure that, as everyone in this House knows, prompted the Socialist Party and personally its secretary of organization, Mr Blanco, a peasant of whom we have been preceded in the rostrum, and electoral procedure of which the speaker is concerned by the result obtained by the People's Party, but it seems that it has not looked at that of the Socialist Party, which has been the third political force behind Podemos among the voters residing abroad, perhaps precisely because of its wrong, its wrong, decision to promote that procedure. It is also, and I say it quite clearly, sleek and incoherent that I criticize the parliamentary groups for doing their work. There is no limit to the right of amendment of any of the groups in this House, there is no limit to the debate on the proposals of one and the other, so it is incongruent to say now that it is displeased that the final result is precisely the one that you originally advocated, that is, a legal text that deals exclusively with the acquisition of nationality by the descendants of the Sephardics and that, therefore, has been devoid of any other connotation or regulation that you disliked, and when that approach is accepted it seems to be that you dislike it too. I am sorry, I insist, for the intervention. However, I remain with the importance of the previous interventions, which is the recognition of the very broad degree of agreement that has given rise to this legal text promoted by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will refer to a few aspects quickly. The first, I will insist once again that this level of consensus is nothing more than the reflection of a long process that has taken place in Spain over the past hundred and fifty or two hundred years and that has brought together the most relevant personalities of our culture who, at one time or another, gave express signs of rapprochement to the Sephardic communities, to Benito Pérez Galdós, to Unamuno, to Echegaray, to Emilia Pardo Bazán, to Juan Valera, to Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, that is to say, all the great Spanish culture in the last hundred and fifty years supported the reunion with the Sephardic communities. And also from politics there has been a very broad and growing level of consensus, not only Canalejas, Maura, Romanones, Alcalá Zamora, Melquiades Álvarez, Lerroux, not to mention the always quoted Ángel Pulido, Senator Ángel Pulido, or more recently Ernest Lluch, all, Fernando de los Ríos, all, at one time or another in history, have been contributing their support to this process of reunion that is now culminating. The Free Educational Institution and Rafael Altamira played an enormous cultural role for the knowledge by Spanish society of Sephardic reality and therefore, I insist, all that, all that pose of political consensus and cultural attention to Sephardic reality, finds today reflected in the legal text that we are going to adopt. I would like to remind you briefly, because it seems to me that in some of the speeches the partiality makes us forget what is important, what is the central meaning of this law. The central meaning of this law is to offer a way of obtaining nationality to the descendants of the expelled Sephardics, of the Jews expelled from Spain in 1492 who have maintained their special connection with Spain mainly through language and traditions. There were legislative precedents, no doubt, there were two very partial precedents throughout the twentieth century and there was or is the most immediate precedent for the reform of the 1981 Civil Code, which allowed for the acquisition of citizenship by residence of Sephardic Jews for a period of two years by matching them with Latin Americans. The first important novelty introduced by this draft law and which has not been recalled is that this law exempts those who acquire Spanish nationality from the waiver of nationality prior to that of those who acquire Spanish nationality. It's a double nationality procedure, which wasn't happening before. In other words, those who obtained Spanish nationality under the previous rule, whether by residence for two years or by letter of nature, had to renounce their nationality. The great first and obvious contribution, which is a break with the above, is that it does not require the renunciation of any nationality. The second is that it is a procedure that aims and clarifies the mode of access by letter of nature. Of course, the letter of nature, prior to renouncing the original nationality, was open. But that was an enormously discretionary procedure that is now replaced by a much more agile, valued, basically managed by an electronic procedure and with very clear rules. There has been criticism - or objection - of the excessively short period, the three-year period which can be extended by one more. It seems to me that this is a reasonable period of time because there is also a commitment in the law itself that the files will be resolved within one year, which is a reasonable period of time, but in any case, I would like to point out that the law also incorporates the possibility of subsequent application of this four-year period when exceptional circumstances or humanitarian reasons are given. For these cases, and indefinitely over time, this law will remain in force permanently so that it can accept and offer nationality to all Sephardic communities that, under any circumstances in the future, suffer a situation of persecution. It is a text, therefore, clear, precise, agile, enormously novel and which solves much of the difficulties that have existed so far. It has been said that the law is complex. I'd say the law is accurate. That is, we all agree - and it has been reiterated, that is the meaning of the law - to make an offer of Spanish nationality to those who were unjustly dispossessed of it. But anyone understands that it is also not easy, 500 years later, to identify today individually the members of that community to which we are addressing. The law, therefore, has to look for indirect mechanisms to identify correctly, but I want to highlight one thing that has been said not exactly. The notarial procedure being instituted will lead to the personal appearance of the persons concerned before the notary only when the notary, having reviewed the document submitted by telematics, has come to the conclusion that the person concerned meets the requirements for obtaining nationality. That is to say, such movements will be made only when the degree of progress and consolidation of the procedure is already very high. There will therefore be no unnecessary or useless displacements. What is required is a final character to prove the veracity of all the declared data and to ascertain the applicant's personal commitment. I'm done. We have spoken on many occasions over the more than a year that has lasted the processing, this law is well known and will start to apply, surely, with remarkable success, judging by the expectation that undoubtedly exists throughout the world, I would dare say, at this moment. It will start to apply on 1 October with agility, precision and with the best will to make it as wide as possible. I would like to ask - and I know the will of the Ministry of Justice to do so - that, to the extent possible, when this rule begins to apply, at least for the most part, the outstanding files of the previous procedure of obtaining by letter of nature have been resolved before 1 October. I think that would be the best way; it was a concern expressed also by Mr Jané, who has been very active throughout this bill and I thank him. It would probably be best if the transfer of files from one procedure to another were unnecessary if we could make an additional effort at the last moment to untie, to put it mildly, the files that have remained to be resolved. One more thing: this law, with clear rules, with a clearly preponderant and central role of the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain as the axis on which the accreditation of the status of Sephardics originating from Spain of the interested parties is centered, with the commitment of the Ministry of Justice to arbitrate an electronic, telematic procedure, with a declared commitment and which I also thank from the rostrum of the General Council of Notariat that at all times has supported and given all the facilities for its best application, with all these things, with the goodwill that all the groups have been manifesting, I am sure that in the end it will be the law that we have longed for and longed for in the Sephardic community throughout the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorriaga. There seems to be a request for a word from the Minister of Justice. The shorter the ministers are, the more the Members will be grateful for it. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u26	Thank you very much, President. Welcome all the people and entities representing the Jewish community who have wanted to accompany us on this day that can undoubtedly be described as historical; sometimes it is almost a phrase made, but today it is evident that we are faced with a historical day. If on 1 January 1492 a door was closed for thousands of Spaniards who were forced to cease being one, today concludes the parliamentary process of a law that, when it comes into force, on 1 October 2015, will reopen a door for all the descendants of those who were so unjustly expelled from Spain. This law that will be adopted today certainly says a lot about what we have been in the past but also about what we are Spanish today and what we want to be in the future, because open Spain, diverse Spain, today's tolerant Spain of Philip VI is the one that has culminated in a long process of reunion with those who for more than half a millennium have carried the language, culture and memory of Spain with them. To intransigence, to ingratitude, the Sephardics were able to respond instead with constancy in memory and sincerity in love for Spain. The support that this law has had throughout its process and the momentum it has enjoyed from all communities and all organizations, the generous collaboration of parliamentary groups here in this House and in the Senate, I believe they also value the project that we have completed today. It is the culmination of a process, of a long process in which there has been no empty effort, because it was not empty the claim by the Sephardics, which began already in the second half of the nineteenth century; it was not so the decree of 1924, which granted nationality to their descendants, although it is true that it was a little known norm; nor were the commitments of the Spanish diplomats who welcomed them under their protection in the occupied Europe of the Second World War, nor have the efforts for the presence of Judaism in our country and the impetus that King John Charles I himself has dedicated to it been wasted throughout our democracy. All that continued effort is what today allows us to achieve this historic step. I would like to highlight and thank the cooperation of all the parliamentary groups, in particular the rapporteur from the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gabriel Elorriaga, and all the other rapporteurs who have contributed to this project. It is true that after the amendments, in a fruitful and complex process such as parliamentary technique, they are achieving and we are going to achieve a sound and fair law. I regret that on such an important day as today some devote more time to discrepancy or procedural detail than to the so relevant value of this rule. An old saying I Sephardicated that you know much better than I, reserved for farewells, wishes travelers ways of milk and honey. [[Addressing the guest gallery]] Today we can use that old proverb to wish it to all those who want to regain their nationality and, therefore, implement the procedure that this new law enables. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u27	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank you personally for your sensitivity and for the interest you have always shown in such an important historical issue. This allows us for the first time in this House to be two ministers who present a bill of this nature. It is a bill - it has been repeated here - that has enormous historical significance. In intervening two ministers, we wanted to say that this is the work of the entire Government and of this Government at all its stages. He started it in the Ministry of Justice, with me, Minister Ruiz-Gallardón, and it has been completed by Minister Catalá. It is a sign of the unity of the Government in this area throughout its entire mandate. It has been repeated here - I will not insist on it - that we are here repairing a historical debt, a historical debt with Jewish communities that have been in Spain for almost two thousand years, which probably starred in the brightest periods of coexistence in our history at that time when Spain was Roman Hispania and Goda, Al-Andalus for those of Muslim religion and Sephardic for our Jews, and that they have known, after the Diaspora, in five hundred years, to maintain the love, traditions and language - the Ladin - that unite them to Spain. I began to take an interest in the subject of Sephardics when I began to use political reason. In 1978, at the Ministry of Culture, I remember that in a meal someone made a magnificent speech and I asked him when he sat down: Where did you learn Spanish? And I answer myself: Five hundred years ago in Toledo. That led me to participate with my good friend Ernest Lluch in the amendment of the Civil Code in 1981, as you can see in a work called Return to Sephardic. Today I have been fortunate to be one of the ministers responsible for the submission of a bill, a bill that no previous Government had submitted. You will be able, when you arrive at the Government, when several moons are fulfilled from now on, to amend this law. We didn't have a chance because there was nothing to change. There is a history of legislation, none because of the governments that you have played for a long time. There is a 1924 decree that was extremely important because it served the Spanish foreign service to save thousands of Jews who were persecuted by the Nazi hordes; it was amended in 1948 and later in 1981. This bill, regardless of the minor technical deficiencies that may be seen and that may be modifiable, has, as the Minister of Justice has said, the enormous virtuality of allowing the acquisition of Spanish nationality without renouncing the nationality of origin, which was the huge stumbling block with which the Sephardics were in this matter. If I may continue with personal matters, I will tell you that, since I took office as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have spent a lot of time on this issue. I have participated in the tribute sessions to the communities that were sacrificed in the Shoah, I have been in several concentration camps, the last one in Mauthausen, honoring the Spanish Republicans who were martyred there but also to the Jews who were martyred; we made an exhibition at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which many of you visited, to pay tribute to the characters of the Spanish foreign service who, in hard and difficult times, judging their career and prestige, helped many of the Jews to escape the persecution to which they were subjected. I have been to Yad Vashem, where I was fortunate enough to honor two new righteous among the nations, and we continue to investigate why there are many more righteous among the nations of Spanish nationality. Very soon - I hope - we will give birth to a book made by Professor Lisbon narrating everything that happened to Spanish Jews in different countries and what was the heroic behavior of foreign service officials against many times, most of the times, of the instructions they received. Why has this matter matter matter mattered to me, I have been very active and I remain active in the Middle East peace process? The position of this Government, as you know, is an unalterable position, consistent and consistent with what is our doctrine, which is that we are for the solution of the two States: a secure Israel with a Palestine in peace. I conclude by saying that I wish the name of Jerusalem, the City of Peace, would be the one to be imposed on all these negotiations and we will arrive at a place where Jews can live in safety as they have not lived in a long time. From this moment on you will be able to live there and, of course, you will be able to live in that second country, Spain, to which this Government has for the first time for a long time opened its doors. There have been very sad interventions. In all the indicators of the brand Spain, which is the projection of the image of Spain, it is shown that the image of Spain has risen in these three years everywhere with two exceptions, in Argentina and Venezuela, and with a remarkable exception that is Spain. The worst image of Spain is made by the Spaniards themselves, and some of the interventions they have heard here help us not to recover the image outside at the speed we want and to damage the image within Spain on these occasions, because in cases such as this one, the main thing is nobility, elegance and generosity. When something like this is historically being repaired, come here and talk about gallimities and I don't know how many other things more qualify the intervener. Thank you very much. [[Mrs Silva Rego: Minister, the truth hurts!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u29	Thank you, Minister. Before entering the next item, although I would have to announce the time of voting on the ninth item, for Members to know it will not be voted before five, but I am afraid it will be a little after five. - DRAFT REFORM LAW OF THE HYPOTECARY LAW APPROVED BY THE DECORD OF 8 FEBRUARY 1946 AND THE REFUND TEXT OF THE PROPERTY LAW, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE Decree 1/2004 OF 5 MARCH. [[File number 121/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u30	Amendments to the Senate. Draft Law on the Reform of the Mortgage Act adopted by Decree of 8 February 1946 and the consolidated text of the Real Property Disaster Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2004 of 5 March. Firstly, Mr Quadra has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Consummatum est. From the point of view of Amaiur the anti-democratic roller of the PP is going to realize today, and never better said, the largest expoliation of neighboring, communal and public property that has been practiced in the Spanish State in the last decades. [[The lady]] The Catholic Church, the Catholic hierarchy that has maintained in recent times most of all economic, fiscal, educational privileges, etcetera that it obtained on the dark Francoist night, will achieve with the approval of this law to end the work legalizing to its name the registration of massive property of tens of thousands of real estate practiced in recent years. Article 206.1 of the Mortgage Law, a law adopted in 1946 in full marriage, in full euphoria between the Church and the Franco regime, equated in recognizing the property of the real estate to the notaries and the bishops, that is, it became the ecclesiastical hierarchy as judge and part in all the processes of recognition of the property of the real estate, in a kind of Juan Palomo: I liked it, I eat it. I decide what's mine and you shut up. Subsequently, on this basis and under the government of President Aznar, the mortgage regulation was amended in what was an exit pistol to proceed to the massive registration of what have been tens of thousands of properties throughout the State. And I'm not exaggerating anything at all. In Navarre, for example, where a fairly thorough follow-up has been carried out by municipalities and local authorities of what has happened, more than a thousand real estate properties have been registered during these years in the name of the Church. It must be borne in mind that we are not talking about places of worship, churches, hermitage alone, but we are talking to a great extent about what has been the registration of healing houses, gardens, public squares and roads, vineyards and even a pediment. This is what we have seen, an authentic reed on the part of the Archbishop, until we leave it, and never better said, cleaner than a patena. This is what happened in Navarre and this is what happened in the rest of the state. In order for you to know him, in Navarre you have spoken against this expoliation, this appropriation, more than 180 municipalities and local authorities, denouncing what has happened. And what we have seen from the ecclesiastical hierarchy, from the military Archbishop Castrense, in this case, in Nafarroa, and from the government of the People's Party has been a real one: deaf ears and blind eyes to these scandalous events that were taking place. It should be noted that these are also goods, which are, for the most part, freely handed over by the municipalities and peoples to the Church only for its use, or goods which have been built, repaired, which have been maintained over the centuries and decades, also, from public budgets, from neighbouring efforts and community work carried out in all these peoples. In the rest of the State this has been even more scandalous in some cases, such as those we have seen with goods declared a World Heritage Site such as the Mosque of Córdoba or the Giralda of Seville, since they have also been inscribed in the name of the Church. World Heritage is like saying property of humanity, not property of the ecclesiastical hierarchy. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the greater use that is being made in these last two cases is a commercial use in order to obtain benefits from the tourist exploitation of these properties. The law we are discussing deletes section 206.1, to which I have referred, but nothing is said about the registrations made. Ultimately, 100 per cent of this expoliation to which I have referred is being legalized, to which there is no doubt that it is the largest recorded fraud in recent years. On the part of Amaiur, we tabled an amendment at the time that has not been answered, which pointed out everything I am currently expressing, and even referred to various important legal reports that had been made, pointing out the unconstitutionality of this appropriation, of this registration and of this legalization with this law. That's why we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u32	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u33	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. We voted in favour of this law when it passed through Congress. The amendments that have been adopted in the Senate, we believe, also improve some outstanding technical aspects. So we'll do the same, we'll vote for it again.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u34	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that many people have agreed this morning that today is a historic day, but unfortunately, historic days are not always for good. If we first welcomed a law that establishes a gesture in relation to the Sephardic community, we will now see how a law is used to address not only reforms that are at the service of certain lobbyists, but possibly one of the great real estate balls that this country has experienced. Today it ends badly what started very badly and it will end with the adoption of a law that, again, says it has a stated objective, the improvement of the coordination between Catastro and the Property Registry to avoid unnecessary conflicts, but that in the bottom has two hidden objectives: once again to encourage the registrars to occupy a space in relation to functions that they have not been developing so far, especially with a view to facilitating the profitability of an important investment that they have made from the Geobase registry program. And, two, to endorse, to pardon, to amnistiate the greatest real estate ball in the history of this country committed from, first, 1946 and, after, 1998 with the processes of registration in the name of the Catholic Church of common goods, of public goods of this country. This law is a good proof of the ability of lobbyists, lobbyists, to influence and determine the performance of this Congress. From the beginning - we have already told you - our group has not questioned the need to improve the mechanisms and processes for resolving the conflicts that occur, which exist between Real Estate Disaster and Property Registry. This law has a curious mechanism - I said it already at the time -; it states that if someone sees one thing and makes a topographic survey of something he sees, and that conflicts with a registration, what counts is that registration and not what one sees. That could have been resolved with some of the proposals that we have made to them, supported in addition by the requests of the collective of topographers, that it always has a priority and that modus operandi exists of the demand for a graphic representation based on a topographic survey. That is the opportunity that has been missed with the processing of this law. Because deep down I believe that behind this law, it is not so much resolving that conflict alone, but resolving it in a certain way. Remember that this bill was introduced simultaneously with the famous theme of the Civil Registry and the award also to the registrars of that function. It is legislation that, fortunately, is not going to apply, is on holiday legis until June 2016 and that is a reason for satisfaction. But the proof that the Government of the People's Party has not reiterated its claim to withdraw the issue of civil registration in favour of the registrars for reasons of conviction, but simply because of the obstacles it has encountered in part of the registrars' body, is that when it has addressed the issue of the law that we are dealing with today, it insists - and is pressed to achieve it - on giving the registrars of the property a new business space that they have undoubtedly seen detracted as a result of the fall of the real estate boom. Let me tell you, in relation to an amendment from the Senate, that it is particularly curious also the role of lobbies in this whole issue. If you look at it, a Senate amendment clearly narrows down what notaries are going to do that function of drawing up notarial records of the lines and other procedures provided for in that law: it narrows down to the scope of the notarial district and adjacent. It would be the subject of debate whether or not that is technically appropriate, from a useful point of view. But let me tell you - I am addressing the Government and the Group of the European People's Party - that a group that has shown so much reformism, that it has overcome the obstacles that prevent competition, that it has completely liberalised everything - even in some cases social policies - is so unreformist when it has to face a collective as powerful politically as that of the notaries. I'll leave it here. I conclude with our assessment of what seems to us to be the most negative aspect of this law, which, in the end, if you realize, is to endorse, pardon and amnesty all the registration processes that have been carried out throughout this period, especially since the Aznar Government's action in 1998. As some other Member has already said, things come from afar, from 1946, when the regime at the time had to recognize the Catholic Church's role in the crusade and salvation of Spain. This involved the recognition of the Catholic Church of quasi-public functions in relation to the possibility of implementing rights, actions that could only be done in the field of public law entities. As it seems that between 1946 and 1998 the Catholic Church had not been sufficiently compensated for its role in the crusade, Mr. Aznar and his Government decided to launch the procedure that has caused so many barbarities. We have denounced it on many occasions, but it is worth putting it back. It is the possibility that a bishop - or someone on his behalf - may present himself and, without any kind of documentary coverage, be able to register and register in the name of the Church a concrete good with the appearance of a religious good, even though for a long time he may have been alien to these functions. This has also been done by recognizing the Catholic Church as a function which the law only recognizes to entities of a public nature, which in a State which declares itself to be secular and which claims to have no confession is more than doubtful. Instead of trying to address this barbarity, what you are going to do when you pass this law is to sanction it, endorse it, amnesty it, pardon it and get it closed today - that is why I think it is going to be a historic day, but in negative - the biggest real estate ball in the history of this country, the one committed by the governments since 1998 in favor of the Catholic Church. Unfortunately, it is. Let us hope that at some other time we can compensate for that barbarity. Of course, since things can always get worse, it is just as well for you to say that this type of conflict has to be dealt with by the Free Trade and Investment Treaty and, therefore, not resolved by the courts, but by a private arbitral tribunal that always has more room for manoeuvre to give reason to those who cannot be harmed by a previous decision of a legitimate government. That's what we have here today. We would like the day not to be so historic; we would like it to be a more normal day or, at least, for history to be made because of the barbarity that was perpetuated by the Aznar Government in 1998 and that no one has been able to solve so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u36	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr. Morlan, Mr. Jané is going to join us now. Don't you mind if I give you the floor first? [[Mr. Morlán Gracia: No, no]] Thank you. Go ahead, Mr Jané, for the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last step already taken to adopt a necessary law to which Convergence and Union gives its support. This law seeks a better coordination and interoperability of the relations between the Property Registry and the Real Estate Disaster in order to avoid discrepancies in the registration of the estates and create a single identification of the estates. There is a huge demand on the part of legal operators, but on the part of citizens there is no agreement between what is in the register and what is in the register. It is necessary to look for elements that go in the direction of deepening administrative simplification and legal certainty. However, I would like to stress that there are aspects that we have not been able to introduce into this new law. I want to refer very directly to the technical work carried out by the technical engineers in topography, the topographers. We should have been able to introduce in the bill, as asked Convergence i Unió, the incorporation of that technical work in the description and graphic representation of the farms. We should have made it possible for the georeferenced technical plan to exist. We have set aside this technical work when it is a work that we could have incorporated, and we regret it in my group. Neither our amendments were incorporated in favour of topographic engineers in Congress nor in the Senate. If two specific amendments arrive from the Senate today, we must support Convergence and Union, although we do not like them. We do not like the amendments, but we do not like the original text, and therefore before the dichotomy that if we do not vote in favour of the Senate amendment, the text that comes from Congress would remain, we prefer to vote in favour of the Senate amendment. I am grateful that the Minister of Justice is now being incorporated because, Minister, we are carrying out legislation that goes against small notaries, it goes against notaries of cities that are not provincial capitals. We are expanding which notary is competent and we are adding their surrounding districts, so that the notary of the place where a transaction is carried out sees usurped powers and functions that previously op lege had. And every law we pass, whether it be voluntary jurisdiction, or now this timely reform of the Mortgage Law, is used to expand those notarial districts, to expand the competence of other notaries to whom they might not be entitled. This is the mayor of Mollerussa - whom I congratulate on his re-election -; town where there is a notary, but if we are expanding through adjacent districts, at the end of those acts that have to be processed in the municipality of Mollerussa because the notary of the place is competent, will be competent a notary of Madrid or Barcelona. Minister, we understand that this should not be philosophy, because it is true that sometimes a call is made to the neighbouring district from where, for example, the deceased has a farm. If you may have a farm in the province of Guadalajara, as that is already adjacent to that of Madrid, because of the attractive experience you would also get to know the notary of Madrid. This is not in this bill, but in others such as that of voluntary jurisdiction, but it does allow me to say that I support the Senate amendment. In the Senate we have managed to correct with good judgment the reference made to the adjacent to the capital of the province, so that at least we have taken that from the capital of the province because it was an unacceptable attractive screw that we could not support in any case. Now with the two amendments of the Senate, it is rectified; it is maintained that it is adjacent, but that special allusion to the provincial capitals is rectified. It is an important law on which we are making changes; a law that we have supported since Convergence and Union. We have already done so since we do not table an amendment as a whole. I wish to regret, as I said at the outset, this failure to recognize the skills of topographic engineers who are doing a great job that we should have been able to incorporate. On notarial issues we should preserve the notary of the place more and more deeply - and we are not going in that line -. Let's not make macrodistricts that ultimately involve a person not making up for opening or keeping a notary in a city, because if we're giving opportunities for those who should go there to go to other neighboring districts will run out of work. Avoiding that would result in a country's territorial cohesion. A country is territorially cohesive through an extensive network of small cities. If everything goes to the capitals it will be a bad service to a country as a whole and to its territorial structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u38	Thank you, Mr. Jané. Now you do, Mr. Morlan.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are attending the last event of the debate on a bill which had the objective - as the Government itself had proposed - of achieving better coordination between two institutions in this country, such as the register and the cadastre, amending the Mortgage Act and the Catastrophe Act. I was also taking advantage of this bill to deal with a subject that has been very concerned, which has to do with the Church's registrations. At first, the Church was given the power to register in the coming year all the goods she wanted and esteemed. That provision had disappeared from the draft law, and therefore the only thing left at the moment was to see what was done with all the registrations that had taken place since 1998 until now. I said it at first, and I repeat it now: we do not disagree with the Church registering those heritage assets that are hers, and that it is perfectly justified that they are hers. What we oppose is for the Church to register goods that are not hers. A street is not of the Church, a courtyard is not of the Church. There are many installations and buildings in Spain that have registered and that the Church has incorporated into its heritage, as the spokesman for La Izquierda Plural said before, with the sole signature of the bishop or of the person to whom it delegates, and it seems to us that it is a barbarity that this happened, but it has occurred, although I believe that there is still the possibility of rectifying and recomposing everything that has been done wrong. That is why we agree that the Church should register what is documented to be hers, but we do not agree that she should register what is not hers. That required an elementary thing that we raised in the amendment and which you have rejected. We proposed to take six months to see what goods have been registered during all that time, let's see what kind of goods they are, what titles they credit to that registration in favor of the Church, and those who do not have accreditation to return to public domain, to return to the municipalities, to the autonomous communities or to public institutions of the administrations. You rejected that, and when I ask the government, they tell me from the Ministry of Justice that it is not up to them. In other words, the Directorate-General for Registration and Notaryship is a general directorate which, as far as it is concerned, is outside the Ministry of Justice, because it cannot obtain from the registerrs of the property the property that has been registered since 1998 until now. This gives us a lot of surprise and a little disappointment, because they seem to want to hide something that in the end will be known, and if we go registration by registration we will know without any problem. That is why I think it would have been opportune to build on that real data to put things in place, and that the Church has what is hers and that the public administrations have what is owned by the public domain. That was one of the issues raised in this bill. As for the coordination between the register and the cadastre, we said - and it has not changed at all - that there had been an imbalance - in a natural balance that existed during all that time - between what is the register, what is the cadastre, the judicial decisions and the notaries. You with this bill have decanted to the side of the record the recognition of rights that I had never had before. Until now, in our legal philosophy, the judge, through his judgments, recognized rights, the notary, through his notary records, recognized rights, and the registry recorded those rights recognized by the two institutions. But now you don't. You say: as the registrars have a Geobase procedure that is magnificent and that works very well, and I do not doubt it, we will pass the ability to recognize rights to the registry, we will draw it from the notary or the cadastre, even from the judges, and therefore we will concentrate on an institution all that has to do with the recognition and registration of rights. I know this debate is a bit difficult, but at the time of truth when you go to the notary or when you go to the registry to see what happens to your property or your real estate interests you can find with surprises, and I wouldn't like people to find surprises. Let everyone do what he has to do, and let everyone have the skills he must have. And if the notary, through his notary records, is recognizing the existence of a right on a particular estate, that right cannot be modified by a registration, because the registration has to do is to recognize the existence of that right, but not recognize the right, and this bill does not change it at all. The three amendments which come from the Senate and which have been tabled continue to affect the same problem, continue to affect the same imbalance in favour of the Property Registry and against the notary and the courts, and in agreement with one of the amendments, which refers to the fact that in the event of a mismatch the competent notary will be that of the place where the property is or the adjacent ones, is not the formula that we proposed, because we said that the notary of the place where the property is located was competent - you said before that it could be anyone, that of the capital of the province or that of another neighbouring province - and I think that this formula is good. But when it comes to domain files you recover that formula from the competent notary of the place where the estate and the neighbors are, but continue to exclude the judge. You have said that the judge here does not paint anything, that only when we have a mess of nostrils do the judges intervene, but in the meantime for minor things that the notaries decide or that the registrars of the property decide, but the judges do not, and in a domain file they have said: I remove the judge, I leave the notary, and the notary to take care of everything. In the end, Minister, since you are listening carefully to what I am saying, and I thank you, I am realizing that the Senate has served to compensate the notaries. In Congress, the registrars are given everything, the notaries are angry, they don't like what has been done much, and in the Senate they make up a little bit, and the compensation comes out here, but that compensation seems to me not to be the most appropriate one, because breaking a balance like there was in the way it was done, I don't think it's the most consistent way with the real estate and cadastral reality that must exist in a country. That is why we are going to have a different vote on the Senate amendments in each of them. I do say that the whole of the law continues to enjoy the same defects, the same atypical situations, the same anomalies, the same disconformities that we have shown from the beginning, and that its passage through the Senate has been to consolidate what has already been done, and to make it difficult for nothing to progress in aspects of Church registration, and that in aspects related to coordination the only thing that has been done has been to satisfy some of the demands of the notaries. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u40	Thank you, Mr. Morlan. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Matos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing on this agenda item the amendments incorporated in the Senate to the bill to reform the Mortgage Law and the Real Estate Disaster, adopted by the Economics Commission of this Congress on 25 March. Three are the amendments that come from the Senate. In the first paragraph, a new paragraph is added, the fifth paragraph, which describes the amendments contained in the bill approved by Congress, incorporating a jurisprudence that considers that land that can be developed without detailed or detailed development planning should be classified as real property of a rustic, rather than urban nature, as it has been so far. This jurisprudence, which comes from a Supreme Court ruling of 30 May 2014, is clear and unambiguous. Under no circumstances can urban soils for catastrophic purposes be classified as urbanable soils that are necessary for the development of new urban instruments. That is what Article 7(2)(b) of the consolidated text of the Catastro Law provides, and that is what incorporates the preamble to the law with the amendment introduced in the Senate. The other two amendments incorporated in the Senate, which have already been referred to here, both transactions, refer to determining the territorial competence of notaries to process records of landslides, or domain records in cases of registration of estates not registered in the property records. These are amendments to articles 200 and 203 of the Mortgage Act. The text adopted by the Congress attributed this territorial competence to the notaries able to act in any of the populations where the registered estate was located, also adjacent ones, or those of the provincial capital. The Senate, with good judgment on the part of the House, has modified these two articles by restricting it to the notaries who are able to act in the notary district where the estate is located, or in any of the adjacent notary districts, but not in the provincial capital. This change seems logical to us, because on the one hand the intervention of notaries away from the place where the property is located harms the citizen, by complicating and increasing the processing of the files, and on the other because, by hindering the direct knowledge of the property by the notary, there would be more chances of error in the resolution of the files. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my speech in the debate on the whole, this reform is purely technical, unrelated to any ideological or political motivation. However from the minute one the arguments of the left have been their usual mantras, manufactured as always, and false as always. On this occasion the mantras of the Catholic Church and privatization. The first mantra, that of the Catholic Church, was crumbled from the beginning of the debate on this bill, because it is this bill - and not any earlier - that eliminates the privileges of the Catholic Church when registering their property not registered in the Property Register. It's this bill. Until recently, the Socialist Party had been governing for eight years with the support of the Plural Left, and at no time had legislation been amended that in any case came from the 1940s. Mr Coscubiela said this: this is a real estate ball and what is done in the law is to pardon, amnesty or endorse it. It's completely fake. You tell me an article of the law that endorses all of this. The only thing this law does is that the faculty or privilege of the Catholic Church, like that of the public administrations, to register property with a certification of the Church itself is ended, and also since the publication of this law and without any period of legal vacation. So this is what this law does. I understand that on the left, which has governed the last four years, he is disturbed by the fact that it was a People's Party government that amended legislation that came from the year 1940. For this reason, Mr Coscubiela, what you have said is bluntly false, there is no article that endorses or amnesties a previous situation. If anyone wants to know how you can see what property has been registered, let them know that absolutely all municipalities and public administrations that know some registered property that is not for the Church have the power to open files relating to that legislation; anyone. But so far all the public administrations have been, the ones governed by the left and even the government of the State, doing absolutely nothing. The other mantra, the one of privatization, already rouses the ridiculous. In the parliamentary process of this law it has come to be said that the fact that in the property registers each estate has an identification code means a sort of privatization of the register. It has come to the point that the attribution of the resolution of delinquent domain files, when all parties agree, and that resolution is granted to notaries and registrars, is to privatize justice. When I say all the parts, it's all the parts. This law only allows the resolution of files by notaries and registrars when all the owners of the estate or any real right over it, that of the neighbors, the cadastre and the public administrations agree. And if anyone disagrees - administration, cadastre, interested, adjacent - it will be referred, as always, to the courts of first instance. I have used the term mantra and in psychology it is used as a rhetorical figure to signify it neurotic repetition of the subject in order to fix and reinforce a circular thought. Well, that's his mantra. The eight years of the Aznar Government and the three and a half years of the Rajoy Government have passed by denouncing the privatization of education, but education remains as public, universal and free as in the days of Felipe González and Zapatero. Eight years have passed from the Aznar Government and three and a half years from the Rajoy Government denouncing the privatization of health care, and health care continues to be as public, universal and free of charge as with the Governments of Felipe González and Zapatero. They now denounce, nothing more and nothing less, the privatization of property and justice records, and all for the allocation of a tax identification code to the registered estates, or that the notaries and registrars conclude with the records when all the parties - interested, adjacent, cadastre and public administrations - agree. This bill seeks only the coordination of registers and cadastres, greater legal certainty and legal reliability of cadastral records, administrative simplification, speeding up reserved procedures, and achieving consistency between property records and physical and legal reality, de-judicializing only those files in which all interested parties demonstrate their conformity. It has also been said by some of the speakers that the geographical bases of the registrars are relevant. This is also absolutely false. The new Article 10 of the Mortgage Law is worded as follows: Point 1. The basis for the graphic representation of the registered holdings shall be the cadastral cartography which shall be available to the registerrs of the property. How can one say the nonsense of giving greater relevance to the basis of the registrars of the property when the first article that addresses it says that it is the cadastral cartography that has the relevance that this law gives it! I would like to conclude my speech by congratulating the Government on the initiative, for having introduced this bill, and the rapporteurs of all the parliamentary groups, in particular the one from Convergence i Unió and the one from Union Progreso y Democracia, Mr Carlos Martínez Gorriarán, for the efforts to improve it, both in the process of the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u42	Thank you, Mr. Matos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u43	We proceed, as amended in the Senate, to the draft law on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies. Mr Larreina, on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the final stage of the adoption of a law, the draft law on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies, which is eminently technical, because in the end we are talking about the transposition of two Community directives of 2014, the 59 - which refers to restructuring - and the 49 - which refers to deposit guarantee funds - and perhaps there is not much more to this law. Therefore what I will do will be a reflection on the why of this law, and why the contents of this law have not been put into practice long before, since in the end we are talking about what should have been avoided, that is, the cost of banking restructuring, of the whole banking crisis that according to the Banco de España itself has entailed an investment of 61.5 billion euros, although there are other calculations that even increase it. And of those more than 61 billion euros only 2,760 have been recovered according to the Banco de España itself. We therefore see that there has been an important cost of the entire banking crisis, of all this financial misadjustment over the past years that has fallen on taxpayers, when precisely this law and these Community directives want to prevent that cost from falling on taxpayers, and this is the first reflection: that this law is an amendment to the whole of everything that has been done in the Spanish State before. And I think it is also an important reason for reflection to put it. We, our Amaiur Parliamentary Group, have repeated many times from this rostrum and in the areas of committees that this Government has always been very swift and swift in responding to the needs of large companies, of banking, of the financial sectors; and it has been tremendously slow in responding to the needs and distresses of street people, of taxpayers. This law and everything that has happened I think is a faithful exponent of that situation, and logically it is the first reflection that needs to be done. The second reflection I put on the table is about a certain inconsistency. We all have inconsistencies; we have denounced many times that this Government is amending through laws many other laws, and through amendments in the Senate is making real amendments to the whole by amending other laws that have nothing to do with the issue. That is why I say that I would have liked, being incoherent, for the Government to have used this law to introduce other issues, such as the need for a public bank to break the financial oligopoly that is now being implemented in the Spanish State. I think that would be necessary: to strengthen public financial institutions precisely in accordance with their liberal spirit, precisely in order for a free market to exist, because right now financial oligopoly is imposing conditions that are not those of a free market, and precisely the existence of a public bank is what would make the private sector more diligent in responding to the needs of people, the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, of the social economy. I believe that this is also a reason for reflection on this issue, and that it is important to have public bodies of social control, but it is also an amendment to everything that has been done with the whole process of the disappearance of savings banks, which in the end have been put in the hands of private banks. And the final reflection - with this I finish, Madam President - that we always do from Amaiur, and in this case it is especially effective and appropriate, is the need to have our own sovereign instruments to do precisely what you are not doing, that is to say to ensure that there is a financial market that is at the service of people, and not the people at the service of those financial institutions. We think from Euskal Herria that we could do so much better with policies more oriented from the point of view of social justice, of service to the citizenry, of putting people ahead of the figures, and above all ahead of the financial interests of the speculative economy of the big corporations. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u45	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u46	President, my speech will be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has already spoken in favour of this bill, but in this case I think we must all congratulate each other because we have made such a perfect text that, when you went to the Senate, practically the only amendments that have been made have been purely technical, on article name corrections and little more. That is an interpretation, that we have been such good legislators in this House that the second reading was practically meaningless, but there is another interpretation, and that is that when you have absolute majority it equals the second reading because everything is already closed and well closed since the first reading, which is what has happened in this case. However, in a bill of this importance, I believe that the role of the Senate should have been more active. Whatever the outcome - we have already seen - our group will continue to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u47	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we appear to be dealing with an eminently technical bill; it is true that it is of an important technical complexity, as well as two Community directives, but I would like to point out that it has a very, very important political background, because in essence it is about trying to amend what has already happened, which is the disaster in the financial system - which was the best financial system in history, ours, and the European in general - which unfortunately has taken us where we are. But trying to amend it a posteriori will not solve with the mobola the disaster caused neither the rescue generated nor the provision of resources that have had to be devoted to the salvation of the financial system, and instead to our understanding it continues without seeing the risks of the future, and I would like to take advantage of this last intervention in this matter to highlight two - and very important - which derive from the Community directive, but also from its translation into this draft law. This draft law theoretically analyses all the processes of recovery and resolution of credit institutions, but does not solve the substantive problem: what if, under this new legislation of the Community directive, the resolution has to be implemented, that is, the closure of a financial institution of special size; for simply there will not be the resources necessary to do so. We continue to have the same problem as always: we continue to have financial institutions that are too large, too large to break without States feeling obliged to intervene with public money to save them, and therefore from that point of view the problem remains the same. As the European Union's agreements provide for funds for these ad graecal and also absolutely insufficient ad calendar banking resolutions, in the event of having to implement this draft law that we are approving today we would find that the mechanism for the next crisis would not be useful either; I hope that we will not soon have to face a situation in which we have to recognise that it is late and bad to come to terms. Another aspect that is much more serious, ladies and gentlemen - I do not know who I am talking to, but in any case so that no one can say after anyone has said it - is this: I remind you that in this House, in previous sittings, we have adopted a law on collective investment companies which provides for the creation of a shadow bank, a bank which will be able to raise money from investors - I think I recall that for more than 100 billion - and offer them as if it were a financial institution - the savings they receive - in the form of a loan, but not a financial institution, with the risks that this entails not being subject to supervision controls or having the guarantees of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, nor of the national or of the instruments established at European level. What do I mean by that? That trying to learn from the past so that the same mistakes do not happen again is smart, but it would be more so if, in addition to learning from the mistakes of the past, we are able to sense or point out the disasters of the future. And the next disaster of the future can come the day we see that the current mechanisms agreed in the European Union are not enough to deal with the next financial crisis or when there is another even more unfortunate phenomenon: that shadow banking, that of vulture and high-risk funds, will put us back in another swamp, in another pasture, as it has put us in the last financial crisis. I leave it here so that at least no one can say, as has happened with the financial crisis, that no one predicted it. No, that's not true. Some of us said it then and we were called neurotics, as the spokesman of the People's Group just did a moment ago. We don't think we're neurotic. We are simply very persistent in our denunciation of the risks of a rulesless, savage capitalism, which puts ahead of all the remuneration of the investor because he knows that we are basically in a phase of capitalism based on socialism for the rich: the benefits are privatized and, when disasters come, the losses are socialized. And this does not solve this bill. I mean, it's less technical than it looks and more political than some would like. Unfortunately, we're in the same way as usual. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u49	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Riera has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u50	President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a brief statement in this debate on the Senate amendments to the draft law on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies. My group's position is in favour of this bill even though we feel that it has not been sufficiently exploited through the incorporation of other amendments, including those tabled by my group, whose aim was to improve the text and to improve the efficiency of the objectives it pursues. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a brief review of this bill, a bill that is more important, if any, as a result of the financial crisis we have experienced in recent years, especially in Europe. It has been a crisis that has forced us to speed up the process of financial harmonisation and to move more decisively and decisively towards a banking union. President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the transposition of a European directive establishing a common framework for the restructuring and resolution of credit institutions and establishing a single resolution mechanism. The single currency, ladies and gentlemen, was the embryo of this whole process which, after progressing in different aspects and at different stages - let us remember the most recent, Basel III, the adaptation to capital ratios - culminates in the creation of a single resolution mechanism, and all this, I repeat, with the aim of harmonising financial regulations and deepening the idea and project of the banking union. This Spanish resolution system, coordinated with the European one, will be operational in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, experience has shown us, among other things, that new powers are needed in favour of public authorities to manage an entity's resolution process in an agile manner, under the principle of shareholder and creditor liability and without cost to citizens. The most remarkable objective of this law is to put an end to the use of public resources in the processes of resolution, of inviolability of credit institutions, which we have unfortunately already experienced. The law is inspired - I will recall very briefly - by four international principles: the first, the distinction between liquidation and resolution of a financial entity; the second refers to the distinction between supervisory and resolution functions; the third relates to the establishment of a two-stage resolution process, preventive and early action, and the fourth, the most important, is that of zero public resources in the resolution process. And how is it achieved that public resources are not used in these processes? By two means: the first, the so-called loss-absorption mechanism by shareholders and creditors of the institution in resolution through the internal recapitalisation system and, the second, the creation of the national resolution fund, which would be integrated in the future into a fund at European level, paid ex ante by contributions from credit institutions. This is very important, but it is also very important to remember that at European level we are still discussing how the European fund will be set up, and it is necessary and essential to move forward. Our group, the Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union, has tabled a number of amendments to this bill which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, have not been accepted and I would like to recall the most important one for our group, which is the amendment affecting Article 53 of the bill. With it we sought to protect the stability of the financial system as intended by this law, but minimizing the use of public resources, since this rule establishes the obligation for financial institutions to make contributions to the national resolution fund created by this rule, when in the case of public entities it would be a double guarantee and a surcharge on the use of public resources. For example, it is the case of the Institut Català de Financi, the ICF, where there is already the endorsement of the Generalitat de Catalunya that already covers this guarantee to which it is binding through this norm. The rest of the amendments tabled by our group are also focused on minimizing the use of public resources and I repeat that we feel that they have not been accepted because we understand that they improve the law and make the system more efficient. Despite these considerations, and although our amendments have not been accepted, we believe that this bill is positive and necessary, so our group will vote in favour of it, as it aligns us at European level on the road to establishing a common framework for the processes of restructuring and resolution of credit institutions and, above all, towards the creation of a single resolution mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u52	Thank you, Madam President. This bill that comes from the Senate has already been discussed in the Commission and therefore I want to move that in addition to incorporating the transposition of two directives, 49 and 59 of 2014, it also amends a law, a law that defined a model of restructuring and resolution of banking entities in Spain, Law 9/2012, promoted by this Government, which was who after the crisis caused by Bankia, had to go to the financial rescue, sign the memorandum of understanding with the European Commission and define a model of rescue through that law. Well, I think this new one modifies that. Law 9/2012, this model, incorporating a series of adjustments that come from Europe and that, of course, substantially improve the model defined in 2012. However, I think it is also time to take stock of that bailout in 2012, a cost balance, let's start with the costs. It was the Court of Auditors that quantified the costs of this rescue by EUR 108 billion; public funds from the FROB, the Deposit Guarantee Fund and also from the Banco de España. The Banco de España itself in its report defined public aid at EUR 61.5 billion. But this has not only been the cost, but there has also been a cost for the purposes of gross domestic product. I have to say that the cost I have pointed out earlier amounted to 10.55% of our GDP, when in the OECD countries, where there has also been a financial crisis, not only in Spain, the cost has meant 3.8% on average of GDP. The first conclusion is that it has been very high in relation to the rest of the countries and for public aid purposes, very high. Recently, there was a report from the National Competition Commission saying that Spain had been the third country in Europe where more public aid had been provided, that is, the third most expensive restructuring and resolution system in Europe. But this report also said that, in addition to being one of the most expensive, it was the one that was recovering the least resources. We have recovered EUR 5 billion, being the second country that has recovered less money from this resolution system; only Cyprus has recovered less than Spain. And, as I said, it also has an effect on GDP. While in countries such as Austria the effect on GDP of the financial crisis was zero percent and the average in OECD countries was 8.3%, in Spain it was 22.3%. Only countries such as Greece, Ireland and Hungary have surpassed this, which have had an impact above 30% on their GDP. Therefore, in this case it has not been a process of restructuring and bank resolution, neither exemplary nor cheap, it has been expensive and not exemplary because there has not even been enough transparency. The latest international transparency report shows that there is a huge opacity in the Sareb as asset management in this banking resolution system in Spain and in certain operations of one of the nationalised companies such as Bankia. Therefore, there has been no exemplaryness and it has been quite expensive and expensive for our country. The new system for the future is the one that is brought through this bill. We agree with the basic principles and objectives of these directives. The differentiation between what is liquidation and resolution, the liquidation of entities in the case that is needed, recently Banco de Madrid, through a judicial process, and the resolution for entities that are partly viable and that must continue to be maintained as a result of the effects that their liquidation might have on the financial system, on the economy, even on our country's sovereign debt. In that regard, the resolution process, an extra-judicial process, which is defined by this bill, would be applied to it. We also agree with differentiation in the resolution, early action or the preventive phase of the executive phase. With what we do not agree, because we believe that it has probably been an unrighteous decision and that we need to correct in the near future, it is in the implementation of the system - which has only not incorporated Finland - that the resolution authority is assigned to FROB, an entity of which we have no guarantee of independence or even functioning and which is controlled by the Ministry of Economy. We believe that the system used by all countries, except Finland, which has been to assign the resolution authority to the supervisor - in this case the Bank of Spain - could be much more appropriate. However, this provisionality will have to be resolved once the single resolution mechanism in Europe is defined, which will be done in the near future, which will define the architecture in the resolution and the powers and powers of the resolution authority. What we do not agree with is that this defined model means that the cost falls, first, on shareholders; secondly, on creditors; thirdly, on a national resolution fund, in this case, but that it will be incorporated into a European resolution fund and, fourthly, there is a possibility that public aid will be needed again. The bill does not include that in the case, or need, of incorporation of public aid, we have guarantees of its reinstatement, of its full return. We, too, in the amendments we have tabled, have defined the need to establish a timetable for repayment in the event that such public aid is necessary. Therefore, we do not agree. We also incorporate a number of amendments that we believe need to be addressed in relation to the FROB: ensuring its functional dependence and, even, giving the FROB authority a similar treatment to that of those positions that exist in the Banco de España supervisor. We also believe that changes to financial institutions are necessary, including an important one, because it is a current problem: the elimination of ground clauses in all banking institutions. At the moment there are 3,200,000 families suffering from the ground-up clauses in our country. They are paying on average between 200 and 500 euros more mortgage fees; this is often meaning evictions, insolvencys and guaranteeing higher income to the bank at the cost of the pockets of these families.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u53	Mr. Hurtado, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u54	I will conclude, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the injection of public money, the bank is already making significant profits. According to the latest data, EUR 12 billion of profits in 2014, an additional 36%, at the expense of public aid and the pockets of citizens and taxpayers. We believe that it is necessary to balance the position and contribution that the bank also has to make to our society, to families and businesses, to eliminate these abusive clauses and to normalize the injection of liquidity to families and businesses. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u55	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. For the People's Group, Mr López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, back from the Senate the law of recovery and resolution of credit institutions and back with slight technical improvements. I don't know whether to interpret it ironically, as did the UPyD spokesman, saying it was a magnificent project when he left Congress. Perhaps so, since the tone of most of the speeches and the support he has received in the Senate and here in Congress before and now - like those that have already been announced - can lead us to interpret it as a good text. Of course, I do not think that some speakers should use each of their interventions to question the suitability, viability or even survival of the Senate's Upper House. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no amendments back from the Senate or amendments that, by the way, were not accepted here in Congress, it is certainly not so much because it is a useless House, but probably because those who propose them do not have the majority enough to carry them forward or succeed in convincing the rest of the parliamentary groups to support them and, fundamentally - I say this with absolute conscience - because they are not right. There are amendments which point out that they have nothing to do with the resolution of credit institutions or the liquidation processes and that they are mantras - my colleague Mr Pablo Matos also spoke before certain mantras - that some incorporate into the parliamentary debate process to bring about the creation of public banking; public banking, which is no longer the government or the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Larreina, losing the opportunity to incorporate it, is that we do not want to, is that there is no will. Your financial ideological scheme doesn't match ours. We respect your approaches, especially for the brilliance of your speech and the tone you always use, but you also respect the approaches of the majority, Mr Larreina, who I know you do, no doubt. I insist that these are differences that are based on parliamentary majorities and that is why we are again in this House debating and confronting ideological approaches that are also important in addressing a capitalist financial system as in which we move. By the way, Mr Hurtado and Mr Coscubiela - although I do not have the opportunity to visualize it in the Chamber now - is a capitalist system in which individual responsibility is important. That is why it is precisely in this law that it is very important that it is the shareholders and creditors who suffer first and foremost the consequences of the financial institution's crisis. It seems logical that if shareholders receive dividends or gain gains from the sale of their shares, they also suffer losses if the entity goes wrong. That is a fundamental principle of the capitalist system in which we live; a capitalist economy, but also a social and market economy. The law that comes back from the Senate is a transposition of two important European directives in terms of its political stalemate; some of the speakers have said so and I share it. Moreover, it is a transposition that is not too late, as some insist on maintaining in this House. It is a transposition that this government anticipated, because this government in 2012 already passed Law 9/2012 on restructuring and resolution of credit institutions, and it did so taking as a reference the work that is being carried out in the European Union regarding these directives, with which we anticipate the completion of the work and the adoption of the directives, which were adopted in 2014 and were incorporated in 2012, and served to undertake the consolidation of our financial system. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government, the Government supported by the People's Parliamentary Group, has made the greatest effort to resolve the crisis in our financial system and has succeeded in healing and making viable quasi-public entities, such as our savings banks. It was not our financial system, but our savings banks in the quasi-public sector of our financial system that were at that time certainly damaged. I have already maintained in some other intervention that it has been this Government that has rescued hundreds of thousands of savers from the trap of the prefernts. And it has been this Government that has prevented millions of savers holding current accounts and savings cards from being put at risk. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen - and I say this with complete clarity - the financial rescue that it carried out on the basis of Law 9/2012, with European inspiration already, the Government of the People's Party was an inescapable social necessity for a responsible Government. Obviously, not for others, not for those who since 2009 denied that there was a crisis, they said that we were in the Champions League and that nothing happened here. While other European governments, such as the British, were investing £130 billion, around €20 billion, in rehabilitating their financial system, or the German was carrying out almost €50 billion in rehabilitating their financial system including the banks of the Lands, here was a government that called anti-patriots those who said there was a crisis in the system, that denied the existence of that crisis and that allowed the final cost - and now it is reproached to this government that already acts in 2012 with absolute readiness to take possession - far exceeded for taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives taken by this government since 2012 are initiatives to rescue not banks, to rescue depositors. I will give you some data that I believe are important and that we should repeat more often. The largest of the rescued entities, on a systemic basis, had at the end of 2011 a total of €30 billion in deposits. I had seven million clients. Among the next two rescued entities were more than EUR 120 billion, adding up to almost the previous 300,000; so only in three entities are we talking about more than EUR 40 billion in deposits; deposits that are savers, current accounters, people who have their savings book or companies that have their fixed-term deposits there. And you say that this was not a social responsibility that should be addressed? For that social responsibility was addressed by this Government, I insist, to rescue those people and companies that had their deposits in our financial system, in our savings banks. I am talking to you about almost EUR 500 billion that could have been put at stake - which the previous Government actually put at stake because of its inaction - and that amount to more than half of the country's gross domestic product, to more than EUR 500 billion in deposits that had been put at stake, let alone the entire national economy. Ladies and gentlemen, if last week the International Monetary Fund arrives in Spain and after its visits and analyses states that one of the pillars of the Spanish economic recovery is the renewed solidity of the financial system that has given wings to credit by promoting consumption and investment, and if it corrects its growth forecasts for this year from 2.5 to 3.1 is only because of the action of this government supported by the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, continuing to say that securing the savings of millions of clients of financial institutions, avoiding the loss of tens of thousands of jobs and protecting half of national wealth was not a social necessity, it is a real nonsense in which you are afraid you will continue to incur. Well, ladies and gentlemen, after all this process, the People's Party Government not only rescued those clients from the financial institutions, it not only rescued those citizens, it not only rescued those companies that had closed down their deposits, but with that and with the structural reforms committed it ended up rescuing the country; a country to which a previous Government left in complete bankruptcy and which this Government has had to assume, with responsibility, with sacrifice, but also with success, the responsibility to carry it forward once again. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u57	Thank you, Mr. López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u58	We move on to the agenda item for the debate on the opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives. First, it is appropriate to discuss the opinion of the draft Organic Law of the Military Penal Code. In order to defend in plenary the amendments formulated, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republicans have tabled a set of seven amendments, some of which are very specific about the need to delete a chapter, which establishes up to three years' imprisonment and also loss of employment for those soldiers who offend, outrage Spain, the flag, the hymns, the symbols of the State and the monarch. [[The lady]] We call for the deletion of this chapter in line with everything we have advocated in the reform of the Criminal Code. In fact, for us it is very unmodern, even archaic, that this code recognizes these alleged offenses or insults as a crime. I say supposed. Why do I say "supposed"? Because we're immersed in an ocean of arbitrariness. The same conception that is held about the offense or the insult to Spain is arbitrary. In fact, this has happened in the last few days. For some, this whistle was a weapon of mass destruction, when it was used by thousands and thousands of Catalan and Basque citizens not to offend the Spanish people - it is the easy resource of the patriots - but to express freely the protest against the intolerance of a State that attacks the existing national realities. [[shows a whistle]] Here the debate is between the ability to protest, the result of exercising freedom of expression - I repeat, it does not offend the Spanish people, which is an easy remedy - and the protest against intolerance. I say, therefore, that we are immersed in a sea of arbitrariness, and you maintain all of this in this Penal Code and in the Military Penal Code; instead - see how absurd - you do not accept our amendment so that it recognizes the types of crimes related to genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes against peace. According to its Military Penal Code, offending the King, the anthem and the flag is a crime, but the practice of genocide is not criminalized. So we are faced with a sea, I repeat, of situations that even scratch the absurdity. We also propose to eliminate military justice itself. We call for the abolition of military jurisdiction and for its powers to be assumed by ordinary judges and courts. In fact, the Association of Military for Democracy claims that military jurisdiction is manipulable. Why is it? Because from the outset, by definition, it is opaque, and it is evident that everything that is opaque - military courts are the paradigm of opacity - provokes suspicion. In other words, something is suspected that no one can deny, that military jurisdiction in the Spanish State and in other States - not in all but in many - hides multiple abuses. Moreover, there is often a suspicion that there is a greater persecution of those soldiers who report abuse or corruption than anything else, for example the case of Lieutenant Segura. I know they will tell us that military jurisdiction cannot be abolished because it is established by the Spanish Constitution. This is a mantra we have heard repeatedly whenever we raised trunk issues. In the face of this stupidity we resorted to the other mantra, reminding them as active and passive that when it came to them - that time it was the Socialist Party, but the cases could have been interchangeable - you, the majority, endorsed a constitutional reform at the service of Dr. Merkel. In any case, we are amending something that we also think is reasonable. If you do not agree to abolish military justice, at least alternatively suppress the exercise of military judges in military jurisdiction. Why? Because ordinary judges would take a big step forward in promoting the publicity of the facts - in an advanced society denying the publicity of the facts is synonymous with reactionary - and, therefore, would take a big step forward in everything that has to do with the independence of justice, since if justice is not independent it will no longer be justice. These are our amendments that we are putting on the agenda for all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr Agirretxea has the floor for the Basque Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u61	I speak briefly from the seat to defend the amendments that my group tabled, inter alia because none of them were accepted. That therefore makes us quite dissatisfied with the role that the Group of the European People's Party has played in this Commission around our amendments and because we also argued that a police force should be exempt from this military character which is applied to it in this Penal Code. We have precisely intended to have this body removed from this Military Penal Code. We understood from the outset, and we said so when the whole amendment was discussed in this House, that perhaps we would have to ask ourselves whether there really was a need for a specifically military penal code to be maintained in State jurisprudence. Perhaps it is more modern to incorporate what is strictly castrense, those crimes which are only military, which are supposed to be those dealt with in this Penal Code, into the Common Penal Code; incorporating them and quoting them as crimes only castrense, but in a common penal code and not leaving a military penal code there as a kind of cave that does not really place them in the most modern of States, especially when all the precepts that appear are constantly referring to the Common Penal Code. Therefore, we were already starting with a question, a doubt about this need. Since the amendments we have tabled have not been incorporated, they do not satisfy us either. We understand that in all other respects this Military Penal Code has improved in some respects, compared to what existed before. The reflections that the General Council of the Judiciary made in a report have been assessed and proven that they are important, as can be the time - since the last Military Penal Code was applied, which was 1985 - the exceptionality of strictly Castrian precepts - which I believe have cleansed much of what was at the time the existing Military Penal Code, today not understandable - the modernization on certain issues of the text and, above all, the scope of internationalization - to place this Military Criminal Code on a European, international level, with the new needs and the incorporation of the new functions that the army and the armed forces have in this international context. Having said all this, we are not going to vote in favour of this bill for the reasons I have given, but we are not going to vote against it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this Military Penal Code which concludes today is from my group's point of view a clear involution, not only for the Armed Forces but for our country. It is a legal involution as this Military Penal Code embodies a concept of military justice that is obsolete, although it persists in maintaining it incomprehensible way; but it is also a political involution because it contributes to making our Armed Forces a closed and opaque stop - even more - and to maintaining them as an emergency territory. It was time to have a debate on the meaning of military jurisdiction, but it has been used - with this draft obsolete Military Penal Code, which implies an involution, I insist - to close the possibility of such a debate. Debates that are raised in society and by those who suffer more directly, in this case, military laws are out but do not occur within this House, demonstrating once again the disconnection of citizens with politics, of which many or do not want or cannot know. For the Progressive Union and Democracy, the only possible way forward on this issue is to abolish military jurisdiction, we have said this actively and passively. It is a jurisdiction that makes no sense in the twenty-first century and in times of peace. Countries such as Austria, Belgium, Germany, Norway and many others had long abolished it; they tried common crimes in ordinary jurisdiction and reserved special chambers in ordinary courts to try strictly Castrian crimes. If it works this way in many more modern countries, having that model that they have already experienced in order to follow it, I do not know why we do not even want to raise this debate. Military jurisdiction has on numerous occasions demonstrated that it is an instrument not of justice but of impunity. He has shown that he is neither impartial nor independent, as well as less interested in finding the truth of the facts - which is what judges work for - than in hiding the responsibilities of the commanders. The case of the Yakovlev 42 or that of Commander Zaida Cantera are two examples very visible and well known by society. There are many who remain in the opacity because it is intended to hide them from society. Jurisdiction feeds clientelism and fear and, on numerous occasions, has shown that it does not offer guarantees to protect victims or to encourage witnesses to contribute to the clarification of the truth. Therefore, this Military Criminal Code does not only go in that direction of abolishing the jurisdiction of exception, which is military jurisdiction, but, on the contrary, expands the catalogue of crimes, without explaining the legal or political principle that a robbery, theft, sexual harassment or rape must be tried by the military and not by ordinary judges. Although you claim to include sexual harassment as an offence expressly defined as being sensitive to an existing problem in the Armed Forces that had so far remained hidden, this attitude is a reflection of the fact that you have not spent a single minute talking to victims of cases like this. If they had done so, they would have explained to them that what makes them feel protected is not that the catalogue of crimes being tried in military jurisdiction should be expanded, but that their aggressors should be tried in accordance with the criteria in force in ordinary jurisdiction and not with the strictly corporate protection that military courts offer to senior commanders. You know that in the problem in the recently known case of Commander Zaida Cantera it was not the absence of that sexual harassment crime characterized as such. He was punished under the name of abuse of power, abuse of power with degrading treatment. The problem is not that harassment could not be punished, but that what came next was the lack of protection for the victim and her persecution for having denounced through those military channels, which are opaque and partial, non-independent. Therefore, it is intended to put the patch in that part of the wheel where there is no puncture, all in order not to admit that the military justice bicycle simply has not worked for a long time and to pretend interest in solving a problem that in reality does not concern them, because the only concern that emerges from this legal text is the will to keep things as they are. Refusing to abolish military jurisdiction means perpetuating the functioning of judicial bodies as if they were military units, which are not, which in itself is quite shaky. Moreover, by denying the Armed Forces the progress that would have been made in abolishing military justice, Spanish society is denied the possibility of normalizing relations with its military, which are again isolated in the opacity and in an emergency territory. It is a legal and political involution that defends spurious interests and not general interests, neither of the Armed Forces nor of society; it prioritises the corporate interest of the military legal body and privileges, such as the so-called suffocation of military commanders; and, finally, it refuses to commit honestly and sincerely to the fundamental rights of the military, which continue to be considered second-class citizens. For these considerations, our amendment remains in its entirety because it is a debate with which we intend to close down, as I said, the real debate. Despite this, we have advocated partial amendments which have not been met for the most part. I would like to explain the main points to which these amendments were addressed. First, several of them were intended to exclude the Civil Guard from the application of this Military Penal Code. It seems to us that it should not be in force for this body; we have defended it on numerous occasions, but our effort has been empty, as we are used to in this legislature of absolute majority. We have also called for the elimination of numerous crimes from this Military Criminal Code, such as treason, crimes that compromise the peace or independence of the State, crimes against persons and property protected in the event of armed conflict, rebellion in the event of international armed conflict, crimes against the prevention of public officials, law enforcement, trafficking in influence, embezzlement, fraud and illegal charges. In the absence of the in-depth debate on the relevance of military jurisdiction, we have called for all these crimes to come to ordinary jurisdiction, and neither have we been heard. We have also suggested deleting those articles in which the military is punished with the higher penalty set out in the Criminal Code. We have called for the inclusion of membership in a professional association of the Armed Forces as a cause of possible serious discrimination, as there are facts that show that it has happened. We have called for the elimination of the concept of arbitrariness in the excesses of command and the abolition of increases in sentence for the mere fact of being military, as well as for the referral of the statistics of military jurisdiction to this house, to the Committee for the Defence of the Congress of Deputies, until the organs of military jurisdiction are integrated into the General Council of the Judiciary. We want the law on rights and duties to be amended to provide better means for professional associations and, finally, this law to be changed so that such meetings can be held in agencies and units of the Armed Forces. None of these requests have been met, therefore, we are bound by the general principles and by the specific amendments to vote against. With this legal reform there is no window for the rights of the military, no window for the modernization of the armed forces and the country or to allow its connection with society; on the contrary, this debate is closed in false terms, a closure is imposed, so of course our vote will be against. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, I have the floor, Mr Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u65	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter into the debate on the specific amendments which I rise to defend, from the Plural Left we consider it necessary to reflect on the coordinates on which this debate has been based, which are nothing more than the clear confrontation of two ways of understanding justice in the military sphere. One is that which responds to the model proposed by the People's Party, the Ministry of Defence, the major states and the military hierarchies based on the maintenance, strengthening and extension of military jurisdiction; a model which, as you well know, carries with it the lack of impartiality, independence and taxation required of any criminal law, as experience has shown. This model is confronted with another - which defends the Plural Left - based on the approval of this military jurisdiction to the rest, circumscribing the military penal laws to certain conjunctures in the life of the State, as would in any case require a modern and democratic country with professional armed forces. It is a model, ladies and gentlemen, which would also entail, among other issues, a profound change in its procedural laws. To say this is relevant because it would have been at least advisable to be able to address before and in depth if we needed a text that would only strengthen that direction of military jurisdiction, following the model of the People's Party, or, on the contrary, if it was the time in this country, if circumstances were to be given, to undertake, as my group proposes, a profound transformation that would involve the elimination of military jurisdiction as it is configured. Again, this reflection has been prevented and we have been able to do nothing other than face up to a new text - its text - which is more of the same, which is drawn up by a few soldiers, on their backs or without the effective participation of either the parties concerned, their associations, or of the Spanish society as a whole, in addition to their backs to the common Penal Code, to the extent that it began its processing before it was finally approved and which also means extending beyond the scope of military justice without taking into account disciplinary laws, the Armed Forces or the Civil Guard, and collecting criminal offences already covered by the common Criminal Code, thus affecting the constitutional limit of applying military justice strictly to castrense and violating the principle that any criminal law should govern: the minimum criminal law of intervention. Not content, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, with denying us this debate a priori, before the drafting of the draft, we are also denied it a posteriori, i.e. during the presentation procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group, who come to agreements on defence matters, seems to us to be normal, because at the end of the day they share the foundations from which they deal with this issue, but these agreements, ladies and gentlemen - especially those of the Group of the European People's Party - can never supplant the legally constituted spaces in which political plurality is more than make-up, it is the political reflection of the will of the people, of the citizens. We have been robbed of the possibility of opening the debate we wanted, which was that of the defence model, before the drafting of this law. In this sense, of course, my group would like to reiterate here what it has already said in the Commission, that it is nothing other than its profound discomfort with the handicapped - or rather, non-existent - work on paper. For this reason, and because of the obvious reasons that led us to present the amendment to this legal text in its entirety, we have put to the vote practically all of our amendments - as clearly none has been collected - and for their defence we will do so in four fundamental blocks. The first is that of extending the knowledge of military jurisdiction to crimes already covered by the ordinary Criminal Code, exceeding, as I said, constitutionally the limits set by the Constitution. This is the main reason for the amendments tabled to your law by my group and by the rest of the groups - my group has tabled only 15 amendments, almost half - and in particular to the second book of the norm - ladies and gentlemen, we have to tell you - whose wording shows once again the long hand of the ministry and the major states, which want to continue to have greater autonomy, greater capacity and scope - which is the dangerous thing - of a criminal law that will be applied within the barracks. The second of the arguments also brings together a number of our amendments, with which we try to redress the lack of objectivity and objectivity of the text. They are, in our view, essential issues in a criminal law that has a very important significance and impact on the fundamental freedoms and rights of the men and women of the Armed Forces and the Civil Guard to whom they are to apply. It also implies negative criminal discrimination in an unjustified and absolutely unjustifiable way towards these workers in a space that, as you know, is suitable for arbitrariness, even more so if we take into account that the procedural area has not been reformed. The failure to comply with the principle of legality, ladies and gentlemen, is very much a matter for us to come to grips with the apparent will of the People's Group to limit and prohibit the full and effective exercise of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of members of the Armed Forces and the Civil Guard. Why, if not, ladies and gentlemen, do they refuse to include acts of discrimination on the grounds of membership in a professional military association in article 48 as an offence of abuse of authority? Why do they refuse to include the same type of criminal offence in article 50, concerning offences relating to the exercise of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of the militia, as requested in Amendments 18 and 20 of the Plural Left? There is, if not, no other explanation. Something similar happens, despite the changes we have undergone during this process, which we recognize partly improve the text and make it less bad, with Article 73.7.3, which remains a perfect tool to cling to the pursuit of those who are annoyed. The third of the amendments has to do with the Civil Guard, as has already been said here. It has a truly incomprehensible wording and rejects all the recommendations of the Council of State. This reason focuses on another large number of amendments from my group and from all the groups, but you have not accepted any of them at all. The most regrettable is the argument in which they are shielded, saying that the Civil Guard is right to be in its military nature. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the way to go about it. Article 104 of the Spanish Constitution must be read in order to understand the competence of this body and, therefore, not to doubt the need to exclude it from the scope of military justice, thus progressing towards its necessary demilitarization. Finally, the fourth block of amendments tabled by my group, which I defend from this rostrum, is those which seek to modernise military jurisdiction and those who exercise it, making it entirely dependent on the Council of the Judiciary, but not as you propose - I will explain -. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen, that the disciplinary rules or professional careers of those who have to administer justice in the military sphere are not subject to the Ministry of Defence and therefore to the hierarchy and the military environment. Today they ask the majority parliamentary group a question in the press: What is the point of judicial bodies to be configured as military units? I will answer from here: none, ladies and gentlemen, none. You raise amendments to the Organic Law on Jurisdiction and Organization of Military Jurisdiction that are exclusively a matter of make-up, are cosmetic, and do not go to the root of the problem, which is nothing other than the lack of independence, impartiality and neutrality of military judges. The fact that we are now being proposed that the appointment of military judges be made on the proposal of the General Council of the Judiciary will not change anything if the content of Amendment No 31 tabled by my group is not approved. I would not like to end without commenting on some of the issues proposed by the Group of the European People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we find it incomprehensible that they should now be admitted, that the general auditors on reserve should be recovered. We hope that they will explain this to us because it seems to us frankly a scandal, just as it seems to us that this reform of the organic laws of competence and organization of the military jurisdiction and of the military procedure has been made by amendments and without the knowledge, evaluation and reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council, the Council of State, the Council of Staff of the Armed Forces, the Council of the Civil Guard and of professional associations and the Civil Guard, once again breaking the rule of law in the Castrian sphere, demonstrating once again the unwillingness of the ministry to bring justice and democracy into the Armed Forces with all those of the law. In short, despite their attempts to show that military jurisdiction is moving towards homologation with others, what they are actually doing is to postpone this debate on the model of military jurisdiction, which our country needs, within two years, as reflected in the first additional provision of the paper's report. Another kick forward, ladies and gentlemen, another dip. For all these reasons we ask you to vote in favour of the amendments of the Plural Left, because we believe that this is the time to modernise and democratise the field of defence, which has evolved little or nothing and whose democratization is urgent in a country that wants to be defined as such. If our amendments are not accepted, of course our vote will be negative, as was already the case in the Commission; let us hope that we can change our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group to set your position at the end of the important process of reforming the Organic Law of the Military Penal Code, on the basis of the following considerations. This law replaces a Military Penal Code adopted in 1985, when in this Chamber there was still a recent memory of an attempted military coup. That Military Penal Code of Democracy had to be the complementary penal code of the true Penal Code of Democracy, but this penal code did not come up until ten years later with a minister who, in a drum and platter, proclaimed his 1995 Criminal Code of Democracy. As is well said in the explanatory statement of this law, that from a technical point of view it was certainly well prepared to open a technical-political debate that has not reached the final consequences nor has it cleared up all the possibilities available to us, we had to move from a military penal norm that wanted to be omni-comprehensive in the criminal types and in the punishments to a complementary penal norm of some types that basically have to be in the General Penal Code. This was the objective of this reform of what was adopted in 1985 after a frustrated attempt at coup d'état. So many years later, it was worth doing, it was worth discussing and each parliamentary group presenting its amendments and setting out its point of view. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it was an agreed obligation between the groups when we adopted an additional provision in Organic Law 9/2011, on the rights and duties of the military, which urged the Government to submit the reform of the Military Penal Code, but it had to be more restrictive in substance and in defining a new military jurisdiction than in the end it had resulted. I affirm this in the light of the clear mandate of article 117.5 of the Spanish Constitution and the constitutional doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a good opportunity to narrow down and limit the substantial scope of military criminal types and to face an in-depth reform that clearly agreed on the operating patterns of a democratic system of military jurisdiction. We have kept amendments 73 to 100 alive, a significant number of amendments. Why have we kept so many amendments alive? Because, in the paper and in the Commission, this parliamentary group has had the honour of accepting a single amendment to the contribution, I think constructive, that we have made to try to improve this text of organic law reforming the Military Penal Code. Since the first day it has been seen that there was a preferential or privileged channel of communication between PP and PSOE. This is not the first time it has happened in this or other legislatures nor will it be the last. They are not jealousy, but the recognition of preferences. Many amendments tabled by our group were similar to amendments tabled by the Socialist Party - I will refer to the Civil Guard - but a good attitude of dialogue that had been held with the Ministry of Defence during this parliamentary term is in decline, incomprehensible to us, in this final line of the parliamentary term. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am defending the three large blocks of amendments that we are keeping alive. First block: when the Civil Guard should be subject to military jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you a moment ago that the initial wording of the draft text was a good wording and that behind it I am aware that there are some good technicians who have prepared the text. They will allow me to read to them, because it is very brief, article 1.4: This code will apply to members of the Civil Guard corps and to students belonging to the formation teachings of that corps in the following situations: in times of armed conflict, during the period of the state of siege, in the performance of the military missions entrusted to them, while they are integrated into units of the Armed Forces. Point and end of Article 1.4. Exactly this would have to be the material scope of application of military jurisdiction to the Civil Guard, so it was well drafted. Then an article 1.5 is added, which is a short and sticky to undraw absolutely what is defined in 1.4. Our position and the position shared by other parliamentary groups regarding the Civil Guard, which is a military institution with double dependence on the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence - who is going to happen to me in the use of the word has his doctoral thesis regarding the nature of the Civil Guard, with which I will not be the one to speak, will do so with more property Don Diego López Garrido - is that we should have clearly defied when he has to be subject to military jurisdiction and when he does not. And if this is not possible with the wording of the new text, we would have to simply refer to what we all voted for in the wording of the 1985 law; rather the wording of 1985 than the way things are going in this final process in Congress. The People's Group still promises us a final revision of this point in the Senate. Parliamentary faith is the last thing that is lost and lost in the vote on amendments that come back from the Senate. With this, not with faith, but with expectation, we will see whether your word, spoken in bilateral talks and I hope that it will also be expressed shortly in this rostrum, is confirmed. Second block of amendments: 80 et seq. Reduction of military criminal types, specification and definition, within acts of discrimination, of belonging to a professional military association as an act of repression. This has occurred and should be envisaged in a new military penal code that wants to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of the military; rights and freedoms that in the laws of the previous legislature we were basically fixing in Law 9/2011; as well as the elimination of indeterminate legal concepts, the elimination of arbitrariness and the elimination of ambiguities. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, the third and final block of our amendments, which is a single amendment, Amendment No 100, which is very short and I will read to you, which refers to military jurisdiction. Proposal for a new seventh final provision: The Government, within one year of the publication of this law - we give it one year - will have to submit to the Congress of Deputies a draft organic law for modernization of the military jurisdiction for full approval with the other jurisdictional orders; strengthening the independence of those who exercise judicial, prosecutorial or judicial secretariat functions in the military judicial bodies, establishing the procedure and the deadlines for the integration of those as judges, judges, prosecutors and judicial secretaries, who will cease to be dependent on the Ministry of Defence for the purposes of their professional career and subjection to the military disciplinary regime. End of reference to the amendment. I wanted to read the amendment because it often concentrates more what it wants to convey than the explanation of it. This is exactly what we are asking for: a reform of military jurisdiction, pending after thirty-five years of democracy; because as I have read you, it remains exactly the same even after thirty-five years of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the three large blocks of amendments that we are keeping alive. We welcome the incorporation of an amendment. We note the declining covenant vocation of the majority group with others. The future of an absolute majority, at least, is a relative majority, and sometimes it is not understood how the vocation of a pact is declining precisely at the end of the legislature. It is nothing personal, Mr Ferrer, our relationship is constructive, but you will know, because on some sensitive issues, especially I return to the subject of the Civil Guard, you have not been faithful to the initial wording of Article 1.4. We are going to vote abstention in this process of Congress...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u68	Mr. Xuclà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u69	I'm finishing up, Madam President. We will vote for abstention pending the outcome of the Senate's proceedings, but if you say there is room to improve the material scope of subjection to the military jurisdiction of the Civil Guard, we hope so. Otherwise, our final vote will be a disappointingly negative vote. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is going to abstain in the overall vote on this draft law on the military penal code. This abstention is the one that best expresses the political position of our group on the draft law, as it is today, a political position that I will explain in this speech. We understand that the draft is better in the current wording - after the presentation procedure and the Commission - than the one that came, is better than the one currently in force and is better, among other things, because most of the Socialist Group's amendments, accepted or negotiated, have been accepted. This has certainly improved the project except at one point: The project is clearly worse than the one that is in force today in the application of the military penal code to the Civil Guard. It is an incomprehensible, unnecessary step backwards and has thus been understood by all opposition groups, which we have agreed on in this profoundly negative aspect. I will begin by explaining in what has improved the Government's project in this parliamentary process, some aspects that we find positive, not all, and that are in line, the right line, of bringing military jurisdiction closer to the principles governing civil jurisdiction or common criminal law and, in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Constitution, making military jurisdiction less far-reaching and strictly referring to the protection of Castrian legal assets. That is the modernizing line of the current criminal law, of the common criminal law applied in this case to military matters. This is actually achieved when, during these proceedings, some criminal types have been sent to the Common Criminal Code that were in the Government's draft as part of the military penal code, such as offences against property, or falsehoods or prevarication, offences against the Administration of Justice, crimes against property that have been passed on to the Common Criminal Code and, therefore, to civil jurisdiction, not to military jurisdiction. In the same direction there is a change that we believe is absolutely crucial in this bill, which is the one concerning the suspension of the execution of military court sentences. By the way, rulings that from this bill will be public and known because, although it seems amazing, the rulings of the military courts, except for the Fifth Chamber of the Supreme Court, are not known and that from now on they will be known, will be public. The execution of the sentences of the military courts will be able to be suspended, including those sentenced to deprivation of liberty, those sentenced to prison, which has never been the case before. We should welcome the fact that the Socialist amendment which proposed it has been accepted in its entirety and refers to the interpretation which is made in accordance with the principles of common criminal law. I also have to mean the amendment by the People's Group, which we have supported without any reservation by the Socialist Group, in which there is a change that seems to me to be significant when it comes to appointing members of the military courts. So far they are appointed by the Minister of Defence; from the adoption of this bill they will be appointed on the proposal of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is certainly a very important, very relevant step. These and other aspects - I am not going to list them all - make this organic law no longer to be called the Military Penal Code, as we argue in one of our amendments. It no longer has a claim for exhaustive, total, complete regulation of a supposedly autonomous matter, which would be military matter, but it is a complementary text of the Criminal Code from a quantitative and qualitative point of view. That is why we advocate, in an amendment that has not been accepted by the People's Group, that it should be referred to as the military criminal organic law and not as the Military Penal Code, because it does not correspond at all to its content. We keep this and other amendments alive for your vote. Others have also not been accepted, such as that concerning discrimination on grounds of membership of a military professional association, which is an amendment in which we have all agreed with the parliamentary groups. We therefore keep them alive and will vote on them, although we must also recognise that the amendments that have been accepted are of great political relevance and we believe that they have made the text evolve positively. But the part where the text has not evolved positively is that relating to the Civil Guard; there the text has worsened. Here the Government, or perhaps it should be said that a part of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, has endeavoured to contaminate the text with the regulation that makes the application of the military penal code, almost complete, to the Civil Guard and, therefore, changing the current situation, so that we have a kind of schizophrenic project. On the one hand, we have to reduce the application of military jurisdiction with regard to members of the Armed Forces, there is a weakening of military jurisdiction, there is a tightening of military jurisdiction because there will be fewer crimes known by military jurisdiction. And, on the other hand, when we are in the Civil Guard, there is a widening of military jurisdiction, an expansion of the field, of the space of military jurisdiction in an absolutely contradictory direction. It seems like it was a project made by two different characters, one dealing with the Armed Forces and the other dealing with the Civil Guard. That of the Armed Forces evolves well; that of the Civil Guard evolves badly and in a contradictory direction. The same project reduces military jurisdiction for the Armed Forces and expands military jurisdiction for the Civil Guard through article 1.5. We have amended it in a constructive sense to apply to the Civil Guard only Title II of the book of the special part, which is that relating to military discipline, because it is the Civil Guard a body that has a military discipline. We therefore understand that Title II does, but not the rest of the titles in that second book of the draft Penal Code. In fact, this is a matter that was resolved since 2007 when the two majority groups and other groups of the House voted on an existing article 7 bis which says, in short: When the Civil Guard is in military units or military missions or at war or in a state of siege, the Military Penal Code applies to it. When the Civil Guard performs police functions, which are its own, the Military Penal Code does not apply to it. That is what the Supreme Court, the Fifth Chamber of Conflict, has spelled out by stating that, although it does not perform military functions, there is a time when the Military Penal Code is applied in any case, which is when discipline, hierarchy or subordination is called into question. That is settled and peaceful jurisprudence. Why does the Government change this jurisprudence, article 7 bis, which was included in 2007 with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group, and enters into a full Urbi et Orbi application of the Military Criminal Code to the Civil Guard? With this amendment we do not question the nature or military character of the Civil Guard, but the Government questions with its new regulations the nature of the police force of the Civil Guard, the nature of the police function of the Civil Guard. It is the Government in which it questions that nature of the Civil Guard, its true nature of being a security corps. The Civil Guard doesn't belong to the Armed Forces, it's not in the Armed Forces. The Civil Guard does not face an army at war in a battle, but has before it civil society to protect its freedoms and rights. It relates to civil society and not to a foreign army against which it fights. It has nothing to do with the usual function of the Civil Guard with the usual function of the army. That, logically, must have its reflection on the punitive aspect. He already has it in the disciplinary field, because the arrests have disappeared in the Civil Guard, and he has it in the criminal field, because in 2007 article 7 bis was adopted, which says that when the Civil Guard is framed in military units and in other cases the Military Penal Code applies, but when performing police functions the Military Penal Code does not apply. The Government, however, wants to confuse the two areas and wants the criminal response to an action by a member of the Armed Forces to be the same as the criminal response to an action by a member of the Civil Guard who performs a function of a police nature. [[The Lord]] The Socialist Group would certainly vote in favour of this draft if there were no such change that broke the 2007 consensus. We are even prepared to withdraw our amendment and return to the 2007 text if the Government deletes Article 1.5. What has happened since 2007 for the government to change? They have not explained what has happened for the Government to break the 2007 consensus. Is it worth it that on this sensitive point the two major groups, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and others in the House break the agreement? Is it worth it? Would it not be better if there was a commitment to maintain legislative equality on this point between the majority groups, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and others in the House on this fundamental point? It would certainly be much better, but the Government has decided to break the agreement and go towards the discrepancy, going back on this point and preventing us from voting in favour of this bill. We will do so strictly for this reason, for the absolutely inconvenient, inadequate, unnecessary and incomprehensible regulation that is being made regarding the application of the Military Penal Code to the Civil Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group continues to bet on an agreement on this matter so that we can vote yes - we are not going to do it today - to this bill. We believe it is essential to maintain the consensus that we reached on that particular point a few years ago. It is in the hands of the People's Party government that this is achieved. We have the Senate procedure and we believe that we must exhaust all possibilities to reach an agreement. You will find the same constructive attitude that we have had throughout this entire legislature that is about to end. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u73	A list of corrections will be put to the vote with the draft. Mr Tardà, you demand that your right to paint the national anthem be respected, but it is that, not content with it, you deny us the right to feel offended; it does not seem very proportional to me. Then he considered respect for the Constitution to be stupid. That also explains many attitudes of his political strength. Mrs Lozano, you insist that the matter of Commander Cantera highlights the lack of independence, the obscurantism and the arbitrariness of the military courts. In my opinion, it is quite the opposite. I would like to remind you that a military court at a public hearing sentenced Commander Cantera's stalker to three years' military imprisonment; three years' imprisonment in a military castle. Then, in my modest opinion, it is an example of the independence and good doing of military courts, among other things, because no civil court would have been so hard on the stalker. Ladies and gentlemen, if my calculations are not wrong, this is the last draft law that the Government will submit to the House in this parliamentary term, with the exception of the one on special arms programmes. And if you look back, I think we can reasonably be satisfied with the work done. Winston Churchill once stated that the problem of our time is that men do not want to be useful but important. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I believe I am in a position to confirm to you that that was in no way our sin. Most of us have pretended to be useful and not important, and that has allowed for far-reaching agreements; agreements such as yesterday's on the law of reform of the Military Career Act or that of a few months ago around the Law of Disciplinary Regime of the Armed Forces. Issues as relevant as the participation of our forces in military operations abroad have enjoyed the support of a large majority of this House and, if I am hastened, even in those areas where irreconcilable positions have existed, such as the case of the payment of special arms programmes, the differences have been in form and never in substance. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I can conclude that we have been useful to the nation and that the country has always been well served, and this spirit has remained intact in dealing with the draft law that comes into play today, the one on the Military Penal Code. The Ministry of Defence has presented a draft organic law, without doubt, the most advanced of the countries in our environment and in its parliamentary process has added interesting advances, fruit of the negotiation and the contributions made by your ladies and gentlemen in the parliamentary process, especially - and I recognize this and it does not hurt at all - by the Socialist Group and the Convergence Group. As a result, there has been an extraordinary reduction in its structure, less than half that of the previous code; its subsidiary character has been promoted with respect to the Common Criminal Code; the military jurisdiction has been reformed by transferring to the General Council of the Judiciary the appointment of military judges - which undoubtedly leads to the strengthening of its independence - the prevention and punishment of violations of international humanitarian law, as well as the obligations arising from the ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court; new criminal figures have been added for the criminal protection of the exercise of the rights and freedoms of the military; sexual harassment, attacks on privacy, personal dignity and at work, and any kind of discriminatory act; the conditions for the enforcement of sentences have been improved... Finally, I am not going to insist on something which your ladies and gentlemen are familiar with and which has even glossed over some of the previous speakers. With it and with it there have been friction points. I will refer only to two, which seem to me to be the most relevant. Some have claimed that both the Military Penal Code and the military jurisdiction itself would disappear by considering both as a sort of night-time singularity of this old country. Well, one or the other - and in most cases the two - are the same as in Spain in Germany, Austria, Portugal, Italy, France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, the United States, Israel, Australia or New Zealand, for example. They are all countries of long democratic tradition, with the most advanced political systems in the world. I can't, I don't have to add any more to this argument. With regard to the second issue that has generated controversy, let me first ask you a question. Do you know what we have coincided with all the governments of this country regardless of our ideology, regardless of the regime we have served - monarchy or republic - during the last 170 years of history? I will tell you: to preserve the military character of the Civil Guard. In that we have agreed on all governments for 170 years in the history of this country. What distinguishes the Civil Guard is not the use of the tricorn as a headwear, nor the green of its uniforms, what distinguishes the Civil Guard is precisely its military character. You will tell me that it also has a police nature, that it shares those two natures. We fully agree, but that nature - the police - shares it with the rest of our country's police forces. It is precisely its military character that makes it unique, which differentiates it. It is, therefore, their ultimate reason for existence. If that military status were to be lost, there would not be a process of unification - as is usually sold - with the National Police, there would be absorption by the National Police Corps and the disappearance of the institute because it would make no sense to maintain in this country two police forces of the same nature, with the same tasks and the same units. That would be absolutely crazy. Then, what entails the disappearance of the military character of the Civil Guard is its absorption by the National Police Corps and its disappearance. I ask you, do you honestly believe that the citizens of this country want the Civil Guard to disappear? Do you think that's a majority feeling among citizens? Are you really convinced that the civilian guards want the disappearance of your body? Do you think we'd be serving the state by depriving it of the instrument of having the best gendarmerie in the world? And if we finally conclude on the need to preserve the military character of the Civil Guard, how can we claim that the Military Penal Code does not apply to them? It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, it is not reasonable. I honestly believe that the proposed solution according to which the Common Criminal Code is applicable to them in the exercise of their police functions and the exercise of the military is, without a doubt, the most sensible. It's the most reasonable one. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the agreement is still perfectly possible and I do not give up reaching a consensus formula in the Senate. Let me end with the words of Sir Winston Churchill. He said: I am optimistic; it does not seem very useful to be anything else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Ferrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u75	We turn to paragraphs 32 and 33, which are the opinions on the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the speeding up of criminal justice and the strengthening of procedural guarantees and the draft organic law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the strengthening of procedural guarantees and the regulation of technological research measures, which will be discussed cumulatively as agreed in the Board of Spokespersons. For the defence of the amendments, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Group, Mr Urbina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in defence of the amendments tabled by the Amaiur Group to the draft organic law amending the Criminal Procedure Act, what Amaiur proposes is clear: the repeal of the incommunicado detention regime which continues to be in force in the Spanish State today. We raise this idea, which we believe is equally compelling, and it is that incommunicado detention has made it possible for fundamental rights violations to occur in the Spanish state police stations during all these years. This statement is supported by different elements. There are domestic and international court rulings that make this clear. There are United Nations resolutions, for example in the case of María Atxabal, which make this clear, and above all the complaints made by citizens of Euskal Herria, complaints which, by the way, are being documented by the Basque Institute of Criminology and Euskal Memoria, complaints - some of them - on which an analysis has been made in connection with the Istanbul protocol, giving credibility to those complaints that have been analysed. An analysis that I sincerely recommend is read because it really makes a lot of money to address, among other issues, the issue of incommunicado. It should even be noted that, as early as 2004, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture, Theo van Boven, concluded at that time that the presence of ill-treatment was a more than sporadic and incidental practice and that the detention system allowed for cases of torture or ill-treatment, in particular of persons detained incommunicado. Year 2004. With all this above the table there are few people in Euskal Herria who question that in the Spanish state he has been tortured. It is a reality recognized by a social majority and this contrasts with the attitude of the Spanish authorities and the attitude of the majority parties in this House, which still do not want to acknowledge that torture has existed and that they still do not want to acknowledge what incommunicado has meant during all these years in the Spanish State. This is despite the fact that, among other issues, there are innumerable pronouncements from international bodies, for example, alleging that the Spanish courts have not investigated allegations of torture in connection with acts that occurred during the period of incommunicado detention. Up to seven times the Court of Human Rights has condemned the Spanish State for failing to investigate allegations of ill-treatment. The Committee against Torture of the United Nations in its recent reports of a few years here, when referring to the Spanish State, has mentioned this lack of investigation and the United Nations Human Rights Committee itself has also spoken in this regard. Similarly, the European Court of Human Rights has on many other occasions demonstrated the absence of an independent and diligent medical-legal examination of persons detained under the incommunicado detention regime. In relation to this complaint, a few days ago we learned that Argentine doctors requested the World Medical Association to investigate the performance of forensic doctors of the National Audience in the explorations carried out to detainees under the incommunicado regime. There have also been countless occasions when, for example, CPT United Nations has expressly called on the Spanish State to abolish the incommunicado regime and said: because of the risk of human rights abuses and violations. That is, because of the risk of torture. We could add that even Spanish state courts when, for example, dealing with value as evidence of police statements, speak of incommunicado detention as a context of opacity that must be treated diligently. From here we believe that little has to be added. With such a rapapolvo, one comes up with an easy-to-answer question: What is the justification for keeping the detention regime incommunicado? What are the reasons why a person is incommunicado when he or she is already in custody, that is, when he or she is already in police custody? It is true that in the draft Organic Law, in article 509, to justify the possibility of incommunicado detention, reference is made to two situations which would justify - in the literal tenor of the law - incommunicado detention, but the reality is that the two situations to which reference is made in no way alter the ability to apply incommunicado detention. Why? Because they both lose their effectiveness on the basis that the person to whom incommunicado detention is to be applied is already in police custody, that is, they have no possibility of carrying out those actions that are allegedly intended to be avoided. Therefore, with the risks posed by incommunicado detention, which are internationally required, there is no justification for maintaining this incommunicado detention regime. Today was a good opportunity, therefore, to put an end to incommunicado detention and to comply with what is required by international bodies and logic as well; not to shorten the time limit for incommunicado detention. That really doesn't make any sense because if we look at the different allegations of torture and the testimonies of torture that have occurred, we can see that in the first moments, in the first hours, these crimes already occur. Therefore, neither forty-eight hours nor two hours. What we are asking for and what is required internationally is the abolition of incommunicado detention. It was also a good opportunity to change attitudes, to help clarify what happened, to leave behind attitudes of concealment. It would be a good opportunity to put all the information in the hands of the Basque Institute of Criminology, which, as I said earlier, is analysing and documenting all these complaints, and not to maintain attitudes such as that held by Congress when Amaiur requested the documentation relating to the Committee of Inquiry into Torture held in this House in 1978 and 1981, and was denied, when it is a documentation that can contribute much to the clarification of the facts. It was also a good opportunity to leave behind such attitudes, it was a good opportunity to leave behind negationist attitudes and to recognize that torture has existed and to recognize the people who have been tortured, who in Euskal Herria have been in a very concrete context. We believe that this was a good opportunity to make an important contribution to the process that is being carried out in Euskal Herria, which is what Basque society demands and what today 100 personalities in Paris demand from different governments and also from the Spanish Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Urbina. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Urbina has made a lengthy speech on incommunicado. Incommunicado detention is a non-procedural expression, as is anti-terrorist legislation. The proper technical-legal determination or designation would be pre-trial detention, Mr Urbina. I do not know whether in the debate in the Commission you have come to understand the dimension of a transaction between my group and the Group of the European People's Party concerning incommunicado detention and pre-trial detention, a transaction which we have come to describe as the beginning of the gap in anti-terrorist legislation, as it has been set up so far. Do not attempt to detract from this transaction with regard to the gap in anti-terrorism legislation. It is important; it is because, first of all, the determination of incommunicado detention is not going to be the responsibility of the police, it is going to be the responsibility of an investigating judge by means of a reasoned order. Secondly, the investigating judge, who, by means of a reasoned order, is incommunicado - which will no longer exceed the constitutional provision of seventy-two hours - has a duty to protect the personal, physical and psychological, compensation of the detainee. It's up to him, the judge himself. Any limitation of the rights provided for so far in the anti-terrorism legislation which, as you know perfectly well, lies in article 527 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which are, for example, that of not being able to resort to a trusted lawyer and having to resort to an ex officio lawyer, must be determined by reasoned order of the investigating judge. Nor is this issue irrelevant and is the beginning of the gap in anti-ross legislation. We cannot underestimate the things that are being achieved - not satisfactory at all, but incipiently - that generate expectations that we can normalize the exceptionality of a legal order born at the time when ETA was acting and that makes no sense at this time, where peace is a reality in Euskadi and normalization begins to work. Any other limitation of the rights set out in section 527 of the Criminal Procedure Act, such as the impossibility of being able to relate or contact third persons, must also be determined by a statement of reasons given by the investigating judge. Any possibility that the incommunicado accused or detained person does not know the cases for which he has been arrested - which occurred before the adoption of this transaction in connection with 527 of the Criminal Prosecution Act - must also be dictated by a statement of reasons given by the investigating judge. Do not consider all these advances irrelevant, which are guaranteed advances, because there is another - I would like Mr Urbina to listen to me, please, if he is so kind - and that is that in relation to the prevention of torture - torture has existed and is accredited; you are right in your speech and I can share it - the Kingdom of Spain has been warned by the United Nations Committee against Torture on the basis of the verifications carried out by the rapporteur against torture Theo van Boven; the Kingdom of Spain has also been condemned five times by the European Court of Human Rights for not investigating with sufficient diligence torture practices. More than 5,000 torture practices with sufficient faith are accredited by the report commissioned by the Basque Government to the Basque Institute of Criminology, led by the prestigious forensicsman Francisco Etxeberria. In order to avoid this, the transaction under article 527 with the People's Parliamentary Group has resulted in a medical examiner, at least twice every 24 hours, caring for a person subject to this situation of pre-trial detention. It's not irrelevant either. It is not irrelevant to have jurisdiction and it is not police decisions or decisions that cause this situation of pre-trial detention, and it is not irrelevant that a judge is the guarantor and protects the indemnity of the detainee in pre-trial detention. It was not irrelevant to reduce the constitutional deadlines for pre-trial detention, and it was not irrelevant that a medical examiner should examine a person incommunicado every 24 hours on two occasions. And since it is not irrelevant, we speak clearly of the beginning of the gap between anti-terrorist legislation proper to the new times; of the times when peace can already be considered a fact and where we begin to caress with our fingers the reconciliation of a divided society that has suffered a great deal, of a society divided in reconciliation. From that point of view, it seems reasonable to me that it was a dialectically interesting initiative based on a budget that we have used to negotiate with the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Obviously, there is a circumstance that is when terrorism exists and is treated in abstract terms as a concept; a phenomenon of criminal policy that must be persecuted, that must be repressed. But when terrorism has such a dimension that it destabilizes a State, it can destabilize it or intimidate it. There is a temptation on the part of States to surpass even their constitutional requirements in shaping the scaffolding of what is called anti-terrorist legislation. This has happened in the Spanish State. We have a Criminal Code that provides for a reviewable life sentence. Euphemistically called reviewable, as if some life imprisonment, in some state of the world, were not reviewable! We have a Spanish code where this reviewable life sentence replaces a non-minor penalty: 40 years of deprivation of liberty for terrorist offences without the possibility of any reduction or remission of any kind or of obtaining prison benefits. Another yet-to-be-altered way of calling life imprisonment. Prison legislation which was applied by maintaining the dispersion against its own requirements as long as prison legislation provides that the enforcement of sentences in places close to the detainee's home is an element of resocialization in itself and therefore consistent with article 25 of the Constitution. And a way of establishing the calculation of the penalties, the reciprocity of the penalties and the discount of the penalties when part of them or others is carried out or fulfilled in a foreign country, has been done in the Spanish State in material violation of the framework decisions that regulate this matter, reciprocity in respect of the enforcement of sentences. From this perspective, his diagnosis may be certain and this anti-terrorist legislation with which we are living still exceeded the very limits of the Spanish Constitution, not to mention other documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, particularly its article 3.1, and other international standards ratified by the Spanish State. But we have started the gap, Mr Urbina, at least in the preventive part; not in the part of the sentences but in the preventive part, in the part before the trial, in the part of the preventive detention, in the part of the incommunicado. We would only be lacking - I hope the People's Parliamentary Group has sufficient flexibility and sensitivity - to incorporate video-recording elements into those places of police detention where these practices of torture have occurred: more than 5,237 accredited by the report of the Basque Government, by the Basque Institute of Criminology; 6,000 denounced in a few years -6,000 per year - by the UN rapporteur Theo van Boven, which provoked severe admonition to the Spanish State by the Committee against Torture and Human Rights. Having said that, we should talk about other issues. I am not going to limit my speech to incommunicado detention, as I hope that, in the area of incommunicado detention, from a guaranteed perspective, progress can be made by incorporating video-recording elements of what happens in police stations where pre-trial detention takes place. I very much hope from you in this area because then we would be incorporating into the exceptional legal order, of exception, with which we have lived for so many years, elements of the inhibition of torture, which is what we are all interested in. I imagine that no one wants to torture; neither the State Security Forces nor the State Security Corps is considered by a democratic country a decent practice, a legal practice. It is a criminal injustice, it is a specific crime, both torture and degrading treatment. It is not the way to eradicate certain criminal phenomena such as terrorism which, fortunately, is already acquiring other dimensions in the Spanish State, not the historical or traditional dimension. With regard to this bill, first of all, we would have to denounce the deterioration of the parliamentary procedure. We have lived together with two-minute presentations - which is a Guinness record-length - through offers of transactions based on orality - as in proceedings in the procedural field, everything is oral - orality and then it was not fulfilled because these proposals offered verbally or orally were replaced by others and in a one-morning Commission. The deterioration of the legislative procedure has been extreme, despite the fact that important things have been achieved in this area that we have been glossing over before, the issue of pre-trial detention or incommunicado detention. But when the legislative procedure is degraded, Mr President, parliamentaryism is degraded and at the end of this parliamentary term we are going through several red lines in the matter of the degradation of parliamentaryism as an institution, as a paradigm of a democratic state, configured democratically. That being said, and also in relation to this organic law that we are discussing at this time, there are some issues that remain to be resolved that I would ask the spokesmen of the People's Group to examine carefully because they can be built on real deviations of power. When the Minister of the Interior or the Secretary of State of the Interior is legitimized for what is called, by means of a confused expression, detention of postal communications, telegraphs, telephones, etc. - I do not know how to stop such a communication, it will not be with wives, I imagine, it will rather be interception what you want to say - the judicial authority is being stripped of an exclusive competence. This type of interception can only be made by reasoned order of the judge of emergency, he has no competence in this field nor can the Minister of the Interior or the Secretary of State of the Interior have it. We have yet to comment, Mr President, on all the ordinary law. In ordinary law there are a number of issues that are particularly controversial and rejectable to my parliamentary group and it is the system of connectivity that is introduced. To avoid macro-processes, what must be avoided is that there are macro-criminals. Macroprocesses do not exist as a concept, they are by accumulation of organized units, organized gangs or plots that commit not one but many crimes primarily linked in times of corruption; crimes that can be of prevarication, embezzlement of funds, undue charges to officials and so many others. In other words, an accumulation can be made through the systems of connection of criminal injustices or of different offences, and this is reasonable because the opposite, what is advocated in the bill, which is the opening of a process for each crime committed, will burden the investigating judges with such work that it will be materially impossible, if not by maintaining the predictable systems of connection that can suppress these phenomena that so much disgust and so much detachment and political disaffection are provoking. There is another deviation of power when it is possible to resolve a simple lawsuit, a monitoring process or a lawsuit involving a fine of not too much amount or the deprivation of the driver's license by decrees of the prosecutor's office. We are faced with another deviation of power. The prosecutor's office cannot have jurisdictional functions. The prosecutor's office, in the Spanish constitutional system, does not even have the monopoly of criminal proceedings; it shares it with other persons who are entitled to carry out criminal proceedings. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office depends hierarchically on the Administration, the Ministry of Justice and, by decrees, the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot decide or issue decisions of a jurisdictional nature. This is a real aberration, a legal atrophy that we should limit. Another of the problems of ordinary law, Mr President, refers to the limitation or expiry periods for investigation procedures. The six-month course is particularly unacceptable because it takes six months to undertake any diligence of some complexity and to require investigating judges to complete a summary instruction in six months, even if it is not too complex, is an impossible metaphysical. The eighteen-month period may begin to be reasonable, but requiring a six-month period to complete an investigation in such a procedural system, which is as unoral yet, as ritualistic as that which exists in the Spanish State obliges investigating judges to have to do or a low-quality instruction, an instruction with few evidentiary elements, an instruction which is therefore legally insecure, or to fail to comply, by means of a systematic request for extensions, with the six-month period and to resort to the eighteen-month period or subsequent to any complex instruction. Finally, Mr President, a great deal has been said here about the so-called "telediary penalty", which must be an absolutely meta-legal concept, when it is irrelevant to name the accused under investigation. If there is a citizen stigmatization component in the imputed expression, the expression investigated will also have that stigmatization component. But since there have been arrests of high-end characters we have found that something that was already provided for in article 520, which is that detention occurs in the least burdensome way for the detainee, has been increased with new elements, seemingly guarantors, that what they claim in the background - or one intuits that they claim - is to avoid the vision of that detention. We would be violating the essential content of a fundamental right, of the right to freedom of information, which is a prevailing right, as determined by the National Court itself, with regard to the right to effective judicial protection and to the presumption of innocence; we would be limiting fundamental rights by attempting to limit the access of the media to the act of detention of a person who is accused or investigated. I don't care what term comes up at the end of the debate on this law; if they are stigmatizing, the two statements, the two ratings are going to be stigmatizing. What needs to be done is political and legal pedagogy and provide sufficient explanations for citizens to know that the imputation or investigation is carried out as a guarantee of the accused and as a guarantee of the rights of the investigated person, if any, if the name is the resultant, and not on the contrary. Having said all that, Mr President, we have important laws in which, despite the deterioration of the legislative procedure with which it has been conducted - the legislative procedure, the procedural procedure of both - things have been achieved which, in our view, are not irrelevant. Inadequate steps have been taken with regard to the gap between anti-terrorist legislation and emergency legislation. We are getting that at least the legislation does repress reprehensible conduct, terrorists and all the others, but let's see if we can all get that in addition to the legislation, also the anti-terrorist one located in the Criminal Prosecution Act and in other laws - we will already start talking about laws like the Criminal Code and others - does not become an objective obstacle to the reconciliation of a country that has suffered the terrorist scourge for too many years, of a country that for this reason remains divided and where reconciliation is an ethical requirement for political agents, their representatives, for social agents and, if I may say so, Mr President, for all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy is keeping nine amendments to organic law alive for the plenary, which are almost all we have tabled. All of them were also rejected by a single exception to date, which we will point out later, through a compromise that was offered to us in the Commission itself. Yesterday, the Group of the European People's Party has offered us another compromise, in this case to our Amendment No 98, which we are going to accept and, therefore, that is the only amendment that we do not keep alive from the whole thing that we had. They all seek to make these two laws, the ordinary and the organic, more secure from the legal point of view - even if it seems to be a contradiction. All of them, I would like to stress, because of their importance and relevance - as the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy understands it - our amendment No 95 to Article 782 of the Organic Law, which is an amendment designed to repeal the so-called Botín doctrine which, as you know, prevents people's accusations from exercising full powers in certain procedures and which creates situations such as that experienced, for example, not just with the Botín case, but with others known as the Noos case. In this case, despite the fact that both the investigating judge and the popular prosecution see plenty of evidence of crime in the proceedings of Dona Cristina de Borbón, both the prosecutor's office and the State Attorney's Office are opposed to being tried precisely on the basis of the above-mentioned Botín doctrine. It should be remembered that Botín's doctrine is actually an interpretation of the Criminal Procedure Act, I do not say it or my group say it, some of the judges who raised their particular vote - then I will talk about it - and that this doctrine has been strongly criticized by a good number of people who are in that legal world, since it interprets the text of the law restrictively and opposed to the historical and grammatical significance that has been given to the role of the popular prosecution in the process. In the Spanish criminal procedure, unlike in other countries such as France, Italy or Germany, criminal proceedings are not monopolized by the prosecutor's office. In Spain criminal action is public and its exercise is legally configured as a duty for the prosecutor's office and as a right - it is worth highlighting this, as a duty for the prosecutor's office - for all citizens through the particular charge for the injured and the popular charge for any other. Its inclusion in the Constitution is therefore not baladi, and it derives precisely from our legal history, since it was already contemplated in the Constitution of 1812, as well as from the historical context in which the 1978 Constitution was adopted, in which it was seen as a guarantee to purify possible excesses derived from the previous regime, which should be remembered that it was a totalitarian regime, an anti-democratic regime. The most important thing is that the popular accusation is an example of citizens' direct participation in justice by allowing any citizen, even if not directly injured or affected by the crime, to act as an accusation. As we say, the legitimacy of the popular accusation derives from this article 125 of the Spanish Constitution as a form of citizen intervention in criminal justice, as is participation in the jury. It is one of the genuine figures of our legal culture and has a deep tradition in our country, where in certain processes it has provided tremendous services to our democracy over the years. As noted above, it is not necessary to be harmed or offended by the offence in order to exercise it in public crimes, its legal reflection is found in article 19 of the OPCJ and articles 101 and 270 of the Lecrim, which we are talking about. There's an example. Today is the third anniversary of the complaint filed by our political group, our party, known as Bankia's complaint to the National High Court. If we had not presented it as a popular accusation, since the prosecutor had not presented it, it is very likely that we did not know the Bankia case, that the Bankia case did not exist. We had a right and we exercised it, the prosecutor had a duty and did not exercise it. Thanks to the fact that we exercise that right that is intended to be annulled with this reform of the Lecrim, today we have a process in which justice is to be done, an open cause in which justice is to be done because the popular accusation felt that all Spaniards had been harmed and therefore acted. All this is valuable as an example of the extent to which rights that are of all Spaniards are being restricted by this law and the ability to act in defense of the general interest when the person who has the obligation does not act in defense of that general interest, in this case the prosecution. Despite the excellent results that the existence of such a figure - I have just mentioned one - has produced for our social and democratic State of law, the fact is that its application has now been limited by questionable jurisprudence which seems to have gone beyond the mere interpretation of the law, imposing a number of requirements and limitations which are not in fact contained in any way in our law. The controversy of this doctrine, it said before, is perfectly perceived in the particular votes issued by several judges of the Supreme Court, who argued convincingly and forcefully that this absence of legitimization of popular action to call for the opening of oral proceedings breaks with a centuries-old tradition; it is indefensible logically, systematically and teleologically, and has no support either in the grammatical interpretation of the term: particular accusation, of article 728.1 of the Lecrim. That is why our parliamentary group maintains the amendments for this debate in plenary. I hope that your ladies and gentlemen will reflect on these issues which I am asking you, which are not ideological in any way, which are legal issues but which are also political, political and democratic. I also hope, based in this case on my optimism, not anthropological but logical, that they can reflect and change their position, if not here in Congress, at least in the Senate, because the law ends in the Senate. There are other amendments to which I would like to refer more briefly. The number 94, to article 113 of the Lecrim, in which extremes such as the grouping of charges in criminal proceedings, or the expulsion of parties exercising the charge in fraud, both necessary extremes of normative formulation and which until now have been carried out in practice through the interpretation of judges and courts with many contradictions. That is why we want to translate it into law so that they do not have restrictive interpretations. Another relevant amendment is the deletion of article 588b, paragraph 100, by which the Government intends to allow the Ministry of the Interior or the Secretary of State for Security to authorize interventions in communications in exceptional cases before they are even brought to the attention of the judge. These issues have already been dealt with, for example, by Mr Olabarria, so I will not insist on that. There are no reasons for proportionality that justify the replacement of one of the main judicial powers and responsibilities in the investigation of the offence, which is that of the judge. It would make sense for the reflection contained in this amendment to be taken into consideration beyond the literality of the amendment. Another relevant amendment that our group is introducing to the ordinary draft is number 52, concerning a new article for the regulation of the setting of maximum periods of instruction. The current wording leaves the power of the prosecutor's office exclusively to request the investigating judge to extend the investigation phase, excluding the rest of the parties from such a possibility. This has been discussed a lot in this Commission where, as Mr Olabarría said, we have two laws of extraordinary importance, such as these, which we are talking about. We didn't succeed there. Several speakers agree in this reflection. I hope that in an attempt to get the majority group to reflect again, we will have some success. I thank the spokesman for the People's Group for sending us a compromise which, as I said earlier, we have already admitted. It was a transactional announced and not produced. It arrived yesterday and, as is always our custom, when something improves the text of the laws, our group is delighted to be able to accept those proposals. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mr Llamazares has the floor for the Plural Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and it is not a formula because this is my last speech in the Congress of Deputies. I don't want to say goodbye to French, but I don't want to say goodbye to Antoñete who didn't know when to say goodbye. I'm definitely going to say good-bye now. Ladies and gentlemen, today we see two reforms to the Criminal Prosecution Act of 1882. Then it was called the most new; most new for its modernity. Today, unfortunately, we are witnessing two reforms which, in short, are a missed opportunity. In fact, we are not going to modernize the Criminal Prosecution Act, we are going to retouch some aspects of the already old and deceptive Criminal Prosecution Act. And some aspects not precisely for good; some aspects for bad. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislature, and also with a very important paraphernalia, several studies were prepared for the thorough reform of the Criminal Procedure Act. It was intended that in our country, once and for all, the investigating prosecutor's office and the judges would judge; that is, it was intended to approve our judicial model, our penal model, to our democratic environment. Unfortunately, the Government had not fulfilled that commitment; the Government had not dared. The Government maintains the situation that has given rise to many problems and the very little agility of criminal prosecution in our country, a position of the prosecutor's office and judges sometimes very little geared and therefore very little differentiated. We have lost that opportunity and the Government, rather than - as I say - modernizing the criminal prosecution - even intended to change the name - what we are proposing is more of the same, if any successor such as, for example, that the prosecutor set deadlines for the investigation procedures in certain complex matters; that he monitor and encourage the investigation, as if the investigation had nothing to do with the complexity of the case but with the passivity of the judge and, ultimately, a vigilant prosecutor other than an investigator. It seems to us that that adds nothing, if any more bureaucracy to the existing bureaucracy. Similarly, we could say that another successor is the acceptance of a decree that also appears in the reform of the Government as a very unclear, sometimes even contradictory mechanism. A missed opportunity and a substitute. When that is the case, the Government has an uncompromising trend towards aesthetics. We have seen how in recent times this law is already better known for the change of name of accused by investigated, as if that were to change the social reproach or, what is worse, to change the situation of social alarm about corruption. And, more recently, in a miracle of reverse aesthetics, the Government decides to extend the retirement age of judges. The judicial Gerontocracy as an aesthetic miracle to hide the void of the penal reform, of the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act. But what is worse, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, is that sometimes even reform can take advantage of the opportunity to repeal some negative aspects. Well, he doesn't. In the area of human rights, it was the golden opportunity of the Government, which is not able to change criminal prosecution but could listen to European human rights courts or the United Nations. The Government does not listen to anyone; it is not that I do not listen to the parliamentary groups of the House, it is that I do not listen to the decision of the courts, and when I listen to them it is sorghum. It maintains the incommunicado prison, a source of all kinds of problems, ill-treatment, torture; an incommunicado prison that does not even communicate to the judge after seventy-two hours, which could be an excavated mechanism, a mechanism of some judicial surveillance. It also maintains matters relating to the monitoring of communications. That is, in our view, it loses an opportunity to reflect what human rights courts have also ruled at this time. And, if that were not enough, with the judgements of the human rights courts, the Government considers that citizens should benefit individually from it, that is, that it intends to comply with them only in the case of the individual citizens concerned. It does not intend to comply in general with these matters; for example, with regard to incommunicado detention, with regard to the risks of ill-treatment or torture that are a sham on our judicial, penal and prison systems that we do not deserve and that neither the judicial system nor the prison system deserve. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a missed opportunity that cannot even be compensated for by the aesthetic policies that are so common in the government. It is not strange, because these missed opportunities are the norm in judicial matters. If we have to summarise judicial reforms, then ambition has become a mouse, and finally the government's judicial change is, above all, an involution that will take very little time to reform again. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say goodbye to the Members of Parliament, to the officials, to the lawyers, to all the staff of the House and thank them for their work, their kindness and their support. I have nothing but gratitude; I have no criticism in that regard. Ladies and gentlemen, you have taught me to think more globally than I thought when I came here, to deliberate, to grant and to give in, and that is very important in democracy. I would draw only one conclusion. We have very bad times for parliamentarianism, very bad times, but Parliament will remain the centre of the political life of a democracy. In the hands of today's and tomorrow's parliamentarians, the necessary changes are being made to ensure that Parliament remains at the centre of the country's political life. Only in this way will we get there to be no restoration or iron surgeons; we don't need either of them. We do not need to be restored, nor do we need an iron surgeon to tell us that our democracy is an excess. Ladies and gentlemen, I only hope that the future will be better. As I have had a long experience, I see it with healthy skepticism, but also with hope. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your support. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. As President, I deeply regret the loss of your status as Member, and I am convinced that the House too is sorry. On behalf of all, I wish you the best in your new walk. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we had an intensive and improvised sitting in the Committee on Justice. It was intense because two very important bills were debated that modify the criminal and improvised process because the debate was quick - it lasted only half a day - and even the possibilities that enrich this House to be able to contrast transactions that are offered to improve the legislative text escaped our hands. The haste is not good for legislation, and even less so in such a transcendent area that it affects the fundamental rights of citizens as is that of criminal proceedings. We deeply regret it since Convergence and Union. Mr Llamazares, to whom I reiterate the gratitude of the Catalan Parliamentary Group for all its work in this House, which is not a good time for parliamentarianism. [[Convergence and Union]] They are not because on many occasions the easy criticism of the intense debate prevails, but neither are they because on too many occasions when it comes to legislating we go in haste and with an imposition of who has the absolute legitimate majority, but who steals the proper debate in important bills. Therefore, we regret it since Convergence and Union. We have been actively involved in the two bills and we thank the rapporteurs for all their work on bringing them closer, despite the haste. With regard to the organic bill, we had tabled 23 amendments and at the presentation stages and the Commission we were able to fuck five of them, some of them important. I would first of all like to refer to those of the organic law and in particular to the transaction to our Amendment 48, which concerns Article 118 of the Criminal Procedure Act. When it relates the right to examine the proceedings in due time to safeguard the right of defence we have added thanks to an amendment of Convergence i Unió:... and in any case before being taken statement. Because it is absolutely essential that such a review of the proceedings be carried out by the detainee before he is given a statement. It is a guarantee that was not included in the bill and that thanks to our amendment it will be. The introduction of two transactions to our amendments 52 and 53 has been controversial. I do not want to reject the debate on an issue that is also important. We are talking - Mr Olabarría said it and I share it too - about the primacy that the right to information must have. Therefore, under no circumstances do we have to limit the right to information, the right to free communication and the right that protects us in a democratic society to know what happens in judicial proceedings. Obviously, we have that right to free information, the right to free and true communication and the right of the media to carry out their work, and when there are collisions of rights we also know that the right of communication is paramount, especially when we are talking about people with public notoriety. Therefore, under no circumstances do we have to discuss that necessary prevalence of the right to information, but through the transaction we have agreed on Article 520.1 it is improved. I would like to recall what is already in the approved Criminal Prosecution Act, when it refers to the fact that detention and pretrial detention must be carried out in the manner that least harms the detainee or prisoner in his or her person, reputation and property. This is not an innovation; this is already in the Criminal Prosecution Act. And what is added with a transaction? It is added that the necessary measures should be taken to ensure respect for their constitutional rights, honour, privacy and image at the time of detention - it is understood - as well as in subsequent transfers. The right to information is not being limited. It is being specified that detentions must be carried out respecting constitutional rights because it cannot be otherwise and because on certain occasions the Attorney General of the State - I would like to remind Don Cándido Conde-Pumpido - had to issue an instruction, 3/2009, on which he laid the foundations for how detentions should be carried out, and obviously the work of the media - which is another debate - cannot be limited, and that detentions must always be carried out, as the law already said, with that maximum respect for the person in detention and that maximum guarantee to their constitutional rights. Therefore, we do not understand very well why we should question in the Criminal Procedure Act, knowing that there have sometimes been arrests that have been clearly proved to be disproportionate - I say this as a deputy for Tarragona in assumptions in the municipality of Reus where there have been arrests that have been disproportionate - when there is an instruction from the State Attorney General, Don Cándido Conde-Pumpido, telling how they should be carried out. If someone compares how they are carried out and how the former State prosecutor says how they were to be carried out, they will see that there is no agreement. If someone is looking for the European Code of Police Ethics he will see that there are guidelines that must be complied with and, if we are rereading the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, in which, I repeat, the right to information must prevail - therefore, we must not limit the work of the media, although we must do so when it comes to us and now - when we see that at times what is provided for in Article 520.1 is not having in practice the updating that would require what the State Attorney General has already said, we need to add these guarantees. Like the transaction that went in the same text and that has gone unnoticed, and I also don't understand how it can not be accepted. It is the transaction to our amendment 53 that the police attestations should record the exact moment of arrest and the making available of the detainee's judicial authority, because we are under the constitutional right not to be detained for more than 72 hours without the detainee being made available to the judicial authority. This transaction - agreed in article 520.1 - is in line with the guarantee of fundamental rights, in order to avoid disproportionate treatment which sometimes destroys the presumption of innocence; persons who are detained who are subsequently shown to be innocent and who have experienced the practice of detention that departs from those guidelines that both the European Code of Police Ethics and the State Attorney General have warned us that they should be carried out. Therefore, that - nothing more and nothing less - was the meaning of this amendment which protects constitutional rights as it cannot be otherwise. Those who speak against it - I respect it - must explain why they want to vote against a text that says that the constitutional rights of the person in detention must be respected. It is very difficult to vote against the constitutional rights of the person in detention being respected. I wanted to clarify these aspects because I think they are important. We have also negotiated Amendments Nos 64 and 68 and we are not satisfied with the compromise reached, but we accept it because we prefer the reduction from 24 months to 18 to remain in 24 months. What are we talking about? When the judge extends the measures of intervention of the written and telegraphic correspondence, and this can reach up to 24 months. We would have liked the top to be 6 months, but it was reduced from 24 months to 18 months, thanks to a transaction with our amendment 64. We prefer 18 months to 24 but in the Senate we will continue to insist on shortening this deadline. Similarly, when we talk about the maximum initial duration of intervention - I am referring specifically to the new wording agreed in Article 588b(g) - we are talking about the interception of telephone and telematic communications. Well, sometimes that intercept is prolonging and let's just say it's sometimes done prospectively. There is no crime, but the intervention made is left to see if the talks that go out can capture in the future a presumption of future crime. We must be cautious with these deadlines because protected constitutional rights such as the right to secrecy of communications can be harmed. There too, we have made these extensions a maximum of 18 months. We would have liked a maximum period of 6 months, but, I repeat, better 18 months than 24, which was what the original bill said. I fully agree with Mr De la Rocha, who has made a great contribution to the debate in the paper and in the Commission in this draft law, because he has made very thoughtful reflections on what can imply the impairment of constitutional rights certain interventions in what are the means of intercepting communications, of even putting devices inside the homes that capture not only the conversations of the persons investigated, but of those who live with him and who are not subject to investigation. You know what your children and your wife say or you know what a neighbor who visits you or a friend who is at home says. We must be extremely, Mr De la Rocha, you are absolutely right, cautious when it comes to authorizing. There is a whole series of amendments - I do not have much more time - in which we try to ensure that everything that can be done without judicial authorization is removed from the bill because it scares us. Judicial intervention is a guarantee, just as it is a guarantee that there are on-call courts. And instead of saying: we are going to find the Minister of the Interior or the Secretary of State for Security, in Convergence and Union we ask ourselves: Isn't it easier to find the judge on duty? Is it easier to go to the Minister or the Secretary of State than to go to a court of custody and to authorize, if there is an urgency, the intervention of conversations in the privacy of persons? We are laying the foundations of laws that are applied in the future, whoever is in charge, and we should therefore implement them with the maximum guarantees for the citizen and for his constitutional rights. I now end with the second bill, the ordinary one. We had 11 amendments and, in one of them, we regret that when it comes to the extension of the investigation periods, only the prosecutor is given the opportunity to request an extension. If the model is not the one previously mentioned for the prosecutor to instruct; no, no, it instructs the judge and it turns out that the judge cannot extend the extension at his request. That is why we in our amendment 28 welcome the fact that, in a paper and in the Commission, through a transaction with Convergence i Unió, the parties can also request the extension of the investigation, not only the prosecutor; but we continue to ask that the judge, who is the one who instructs, can agree to it, would therefore need the judge to be able to investigate. Mr President, there are many deadlines to ensure prompt and effective instructions, but they require means and we cannot agree with some bills that tell us that it will not mean any increase in means. Yes, we must give the prosecution and the judiciary more means to better carry out their functions in criminal proceedings. More means, yes, because if we are not speeding up the deadlines without giving the necessary means for these deadlines to be met. More means yes, as it cannot be otherwise, because we were failing to comply with international jurisprudence. Double criminal proceedings are guaranteed, yes, but no more means are given to the higher courts of justice. In Catalonia we will have a problem with double criminal proceedings if we do not give the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia more means. We therefore request that there be at least two sections each served by three judges in dealing with this dual criminal proceeding. We ask for more means, we demand them; and we regret that this bill does not go forward in what should be a guarantee that double instance, but not only that double instance, but that when we talk about cassation remedies here too we must remember that the new statutes of autonomy and from the beginning the Statute of Catalonia or the Statute of the Basque Country, already had that competence in cassation for the higher courts of justice, and that once again when we ask for such cassation functions for the higher courts of justice we are told that no, and it is a missed opportunity. I'm done, Mr. President. Very important laws, too hasty processing, allocation of constitutional rights. We ask for a reflection now that they enter the Senate, we are still in time to introduce more guarantees. Today these two bills cannot deserve the positive vote of Convergence and Union. We have the Senate left to move forward on something that we should all agree on, because criminal proceedings affect the guarantees of all people. Anyone who has been subjected to criminal proceedings since his or her arrest, since his or her investigation, also needs to have due process of law. We said this with Mr Olabarría: when he is incommunicado, when he is stopped, we must always seek, in any case, the guarantees that strengthen the criminal process and that strengthen, above all, our democratic state of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group there are two speakers and Mr De la Rocha begins.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to be to Mr Gaspar Llamazares, my friend Gaspar Llamazares, to express to him - I repeat, on behalf of my group - the recognition for the extraordinary work he has done as a parliamentarian in this House. [[The lady]] A brilliant parliamentarian, a parliamentarian always attentive to the dialogue with the other groups from the closeness or from the discrepancy. As the president said, we're gonna miss him. Thank you, Gaspar. [[Mr. Llamazares Trigo: Thank you]] Let's split my group's intervention between my partner Soraya Rodriguez and me. I will refer to the aspects relating to the organic law reforming the Criminal Prosecution Act and she will talk, among other issues, about the ordinary law reforming the Criminal Prosecution Act. I cannot stop referring, before entering the background, to something that other speakers have already pointed out. I want to make a reflection, rather a complaint, before this plenary and before the president, in some way guaranteeing the rights of parliamentarians, the way in which legislation has been used, at least in the field of justice, in recent times. The Committee on Justice a few days ago, when the two bills for the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act were dealt with, if I may say so and with all my affection to the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People's Party, was a regrettable spectacle. The PP rapporteurs had told us that there would be compromise amendments but they did not come from the government. The process began, we were about two hours or more than two hours, they were still not there and arrived when there were only a few minutes left for the vote and it had been a long time since the debate. [[A Member of Parliament: What do you say!]] This cannot be done by reflection, analysis or discussion. It is a constant improvisation, in a law, ladies and gentlemen, which directly affects the freedom of persons, to have a person go to prison, to be arrested, to be released from prison or to be released from detention. Something so important and so direct cannot be regulated by this legal uncertainty. One of the amendments to that package that we were presented at the last moment affected, for example, the extension of criminal prosecution; and when one later reads it in the office more carefully he realizes that it would have to affect other articles of the law that have not been touched and that, possibly, will be touched later. So, ladies and gentlemen, I say it again, you cannot legislate. This is inadmissible, said Mr Olabarria, degradation. I do not know whether it is degradation or not, but it is true that some collective effort has to be made to ensure that Parliament fulfils its mission. The parliamentary majority is legitimized so that the final decisions are what it considers, but we must all make the effort to ensure the forms, procedures, procedures and rights of parliamentarians. [[Applauds]] I now turn to the substance of the organic law that amends the Criminal Prosecution Act and that is, I also want to make it clear in this intervention, an expression of a great failure, the failure to have been able to make a comprehensive reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act. It regulates matters which directly affect the fundamental rights and freedoms of detainees, suspects, accused persons, accused persons, constitutionally guaranteed rights, and there is a partial, insufficiently guaranteed - in some respects, manifestly not guaranteed - reform, an expression of this police conception which emerges in many bills and in many pieces of legislation, that the balance between freedom and security is once again in favour of security, i.e. the police. There have been some positive compromise amendments that have spelled out some aspects of the bill. I would like to point out two that have been mentioned here and that my group feels positive. One, the amendment agreed or slept with the Basque Nationalist Party, for the introduction of compulsory intervention by the forensic doctor at least twice a day in cases of incommunicado detention. It seems to us a positive and important step. Secondly, the right to interview the detainee with his lawyer and to review the proceedings before the first statement to the police and in any case. They are small advances, but insufficient advances, and now I will explain why. I would also like to refer briefly to something that other speakers have mentioned, to the so-called Telediario amendment, an amendment that my group did not vote for, did not support, and not, as Mr Jané said, because it does not seem to us that the detainees also have constitutional rights. How they will not have the right to the presumption of innocence or to their image or honor! It is true that if they are public characters they have it more limited or limited. No, the problem is not that, the problem is the opportunity. Is it appropriate to regulate this now or is it simply another case of political opportunism? Why is the People's Party, the People's Group, now sensitive to this issue simply after Mr Rat's arrest? If Mr. Rat's arrest had not occurred as it had occurred - indeed, at the request of the Government or of ministerial areas, which were the ones who warned all the media to be there at the time of the arrest because nobody knew it alone - the People's Group would not be sensitive to this issue, it would not have supported this issue. Therefore, if it is to wash the image of the People's Party, our group will not support it and therefore I will not vote in favour. I would now like to refer to specific aspects of fundamental rights that are regulated in this bill. First, to the right to legal aid. You know that this whole project stems from the existence of a new European directive, Directive 2013/48, on the right of defence, which is making significant progress in what has been, for example, the Spanish legal tradition of defence. The right to interview with the lawyer prior to police intervention has been discussed, but it also regulates the right to appoint a trusted lawyer, and the draft law maintains in cases of incommunicado detention the possibility of being imposed on him by an ex officio lawyer against the directive, which does not allow him to do so. We have raised this point and we think that perhaps we in the Senate can make progress on this point, but it is a limitation that violates the fundamental right to defence, to the appointment of a lawyer, in the terms in which the directive already recognizes and incorporates it. We have also proposed to eliminate the power of the police and the prosecutor to agree to incommunicado detention and then request the ratification of the judge. Incommunicado detention, Mr Olabarría said, is a judicial decision that must be made by means of a judicial order and not by the police beforehand, thinking or seeking its ratification. A group of important amendments from my group concerning the introduction of new provisions to fill in relevant, even serious, gaps in the rights of detainees have been rejected. For example, taking samples to be collected at the crime scene on topics that may be relevant to the genetic analysis that may ultimately be an instrument of guilt; or on the reconnaissance wheels, the control and video recording of the reconnaissance wheel; or the broader regulation of the body interventions of the investigated, light or severe, or of a third party, of a different person, for the analysis of DNA profiles. I would like to recall that two years ago my parliamentary group presented a proposal for a comprehensive law and the position of the People's Parliamentary Group was: it does not touch; it does when the Criminal Prosecution Act comes. The Criminal Prosecution Act has arrived and neither does it. At some point, this regulation should be included. And I end up in the broader part of the project which is the reference to the regulation of interferences in the privacy of the investigated person in criminal proceedings. Regulation of interference in correspondence, telephone communications, recording of oral communications through electronic devices or remote recording of computer equipment through the introduction of Trojans. We have already said that this is a necessity; that its regulation is necessary to incorporate it, but that it includes too many manifestly disproportionate elements. We note in the full debate and in the amendments that we have tabled to the draft three aspects which, slightly, have been spelled out, but which essentially remain equally disproportionate and which lead to our group not being able to vote on this law but against it. First, with regard to the type of crime, less serious crimes are reported. It is expected that an electronic device can be placed on the night table of a person's room or in the living room for less serious crimes, for crimes that reach up to three years, when the doctrine, when European jurisprudence says they have to be serious crimes. As for their duration, because they do not differ in the types of interference; and it is true, Mr Jané said, that the interference has been lowered from 2 years to 18 months when it is in the written correspondence or in the telephone communications, but it has not been lowered, the limit of up to 2 years is maintained when it comes to recording conversations by electronic devices at home or remote searches through Trojans for 2 years for any type of offence that has penalties of up to 3 years. Most of the less serious offences in the Criminal Code range from 6 months to 3 years, and for them up to 2 years. These are intrusions of what European case law calls more intense than those of low intensity, in which the requirement of proportionality, the requirement of rigour, the requirement that there is much more prudence when it comes to regulating it, here, in our opinion, is not fulfilled and overflows. So, ladies and gentlemen, why hasn't this finished fine-tuning? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I shall now finish - because of the lack of sensitivity of the speakers or the rapporteurs of the People's Parliamentary Group? Most likely not. This happens by improvisation, by acceleration, by not having reasonable time, enough time, to mattize on the nuances that others introduce. Because of the lack of a legislative working methodology that would lead to legislation that fully guarantees the fundamental rights of detainees and prisoners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u87	Thank you, Mr. De la Rocha. For the same group, Mrs. Rodriguez Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer in my speech, as my colleague has said, to the draft ordinary law amending the Criminal Procedure Act to speed up and strengthen procedural guarantees. And I would point out that, in our group's view, as we have said, the changes that are taking place here are in some cases a major fiasco or, if I may say so, a regulatory rift. It is not possible to achieve these objectives of expediting justice, strengthening procedural guarantees and regenerating democracy in the fight against economic crimes and corruption without increasing material means, substantially increasing the human resources of our Justice Administration and, of course, making profound procedural changes in the adoption of measures to rationalize our criminal process. The additional provision of this law, which prohibits any additional increase in the budget of the Administration of Justice to provide it with greater means, makes the objectives proposed by the law - speeding up justice - at the expense of guarantees and rights of the parties to the proceedings. The Government has abandoned, as has already been said in this rostrum, the plan for a comprehensive reform of the Spanish criminal process. It also abandoned the model in which the investigation phase was to be attributed to the prosecutor's office, giving this competence of direction, impulse and control of the investigation and, however, maintaining the current model in which the judge owns the investigation, establishes modifications that clearly distort our process at the expense of serious disruptions in the system of guarantees of the accused and the victims. I will mention some aspects which are unacceptable to our group and which we have amended at the Commission stage. The project seeks to eliminate the judicial macro-causes, recognizing the need to establish rationalization criteria to prevent undue delays in the proceedings. In this sense, procedural connectivity is modified and I want to tell you that the decision to accumulate or not to accumulate procedures, accumulation or decumulation cannot be subject only to legally imprecise and indeterminate criteria such as that accumulation or decumulation causes excessive complexity or delay in the process due to the procedural economy. I do not want to point out again that the continuing crime cannot be understood as a related crime, since the continuing crime is a legal reality, the result of several actions, with objective and subjective unity, which in no case, for reasons of procedural economy, can be subjected to different processes. Ladies and gentlemen, another clearly unacceptable element is the setting of deadlines. Previous speakers have referred to this. There is no reflection of the deep structural causes for a justice extended over time. If there are no structural causes, it seems that the project establishes that the only problem is the inactivity of judges who do not finish the summaries in time, a clearly offensive consequence for the investigating judges of our country. There are real procedural legal problems in setting this deadline, and I will quote some: the true consequence is not defined, in the case of non-compliance with these deadlines or their extensions. The consequence cannot be the nullity of the proceedings, which would result in a lapse in the proceedings incompatible with the cases of termination of criminal responsibility established in our Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is the judges and courts who have to establish the consequences of non-compliance with these time limits, you should know that the courts have already ruled on this and that between the right to effective judicial protection and the right to a fair trial, the courts have clearly stated that non-compliance with the time limits cannot have a limiting effect on the exercise of criminal proceedings. Mr Jané, it is incomprehensible that the investigating judge who conducts the trial cannot, on his own initiative, establish the extension; he can do so in the additional but not in the first extension. Finally, this must be amended and I hope that it will be done. What are we leading the investigating judges to with the setting of these deadlines? For to hasty dismissals of cases, which would clearly violate the rights of the victims, or also hasty, insufficiently substantiated, indictments, which would lead to a violation of the accused. In any case, both consequences would promote impunity, especially, ladies and gentlemen, for the most complex crimes such as economics or corruption, which require an increase in resources, of specialized personnel in these matters, of specialized courts for their persecution, and not the imposition of a temporary limit which, as a legal imperative, will make justice swift by completing the investigation procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I also point out two elements which establish this reform in relation to the speeding up of the courts, and which are unacceptable as they stand. One is the disappearance of the police's obligation to refer the evidence to the courts or the prosecutor's office for minor offences. This obviouss some fundamental elements: firstly, that no judicial control can be eliminated in cases of possible inactivity of police investigation; secondly, that the decision to investigate or not to investigate a crime cannot depend on the police authority, but rather on the judicial authority, and therefore it will have to be established control mechanisms, and thirdly, that the right of victims of these crimes, even if they are minors, must always be guaranteed that they will always know that they will not obtain any response unless they submit their claim to a judicial body, since the attestation is not to be sent, as provided for by the Victims Act. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, by its very nature there are crimes that must always be investigated, such as corruption crimes. In this my group appreciates that it has finally been taken into account, and that these offences have been excluded in the non-obligation to send the attestations. The other element concerning the speeding up of the work of the courts is the introduction of a new procedure, which is that of acceptance by decree, a model that is a criminal monitor copied from the pure accusatory systems, which in our system makes no sense; a criminal monitor in which the prosecution of the prosecutor's office, with conformity, becomes a sentence. As in fact the prosecutor's office here cannot issue a sentence, has no authority, has no empire, the legislative text itself calls it a decree, but why not a firm sentence? Why doesn't a judge dictate it? This certainly suggests a dangerous anticipation of jurisdictional functions administered by the prosecutor's office. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, from a practical point of view, it does not contribute anything to rapid trials. Rapid trial guarantees the principle of procedural contradiction that must be present in any criminal trial, allows the negotiation of the parties, and it also has incentives such as reducing the penalty by one third in the case of conformity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the second criminal court is necessary. Without increases in the provision of greater resources, there will be a real judicial impasse. With regard to the application for review of final judgments, where the European Court has ruled that it has been declared in violation of fundamental rights and public freedoms recognised in the European Convention, ladies and gentlemen, it must affect those persons who are not plaintiffs in the same situation as the appellant, because the principle that the State, which has violated a fundamental right, cannot have any opportunity to take advantage of procedural advantages must be applied. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this project, which cannot, of course, count on the vote of my group, will be modified in the Senate, now that it seems that the People's Group, the Government and the People's Party are accusing this loneliness that you have so much been seeking during this parliamentary term in this House: the People's Group in front of all. Therefore, if there is a real purpose of amendment, let us open a reflection and dialogue with the political groups, and with the legal operators, in order to be able to amend such an important law and with so many effects on the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mr Conde has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. I actually rise on behalf of my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, to defend our position in relation to this procedure concerning the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act in these two accumulated laws, ordinary and organic, depending on their nature. On the frontline of my speech, I would like to make it clear, Madam President, that since it must be one who takes the floor on behalf of the group, that does not mean that the work done has not been done by more than one, and I would like to record the extraordinary work done by the other two rapporteurs of my group, in the opinion of the speaker, both José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro and, in particular, Gonzalo Ordóñez, who carried the weight of the debate in the Commission, and I would like it to appear in the 'Diario de Sesiones'. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to take a very positive view of the bill that the Government has submitted in order to modernise our procedural legislation with a number of objectives that you all know: to improve the rules of connection, to regulate certificates without a known author, to set deadlines for the investigation of cases, to establish an autonomous confiscation procedure, to fix the second criminal court as a fundamental right, to establish a system of compliance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as to regulate with greater guarantees the rights to legal aid, to regulate the whole world of new technologies from the point of view of investigation and investigation of crimes, as well as random findings, recordings and follow-up, the undercover agent or the modification of terminology to adapt it to the new times. The People's Parliamentary Group has been quite receptive to the speeches made here in plenary by the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups, and of course we have had the will during the process of this bill in the House to assume many of the suggestions made to us by the groups, because they were full of reason or reason, and we have tried to make this bill not the People's Party bill, but rather the bill that has the greatest possibility of consensus within the House. It is clear that the People's Group was not going to give up its political vision either, because it is so legitimate that in the opposition groups there is a political vision of things as it is that the People's Party also has it; we too have the right to have a vision of things and how they should be regulated. The consensus is precisely to give each part of its right - as our Civil Code defines the transaction - to achieve a common result that is reasonably shared by all. This is always said when a law is processed, the difference is to move from muse to theatre, and the will for consensus is demonstrated when those consensuss have actually been achieved. We understand that our will expressed already in this Plenary has materialized, because there are indeed matters affected by transactions on matters as important as the non-referral of attestations of crimes without known perpetrator, paying attention to some of the suggestions made to us, including, for example, those that in no case can be included, such as corruption, which was one of the suggestions made to us; or amendments on the time limits for investigation; or the procedure of acceptance by decree, including, for example, those whose punishment is the work for the benefit of the community; or the procedure of confiscation, establishing certain modifications that were made to us in particular by amendments of the Socialist Party, of the CiU or of the Plural Left; or by establishing the remedy of casssation to decisions rendered on appeal by the National Court or by provincial hearings. This is as far as ordinary law is concerned. But with regard to the organic law there were also transactions concerning the prior interview of the lawyer with the detainee, the undercover agent, the safeguarding of constitutional rights to honour, privacy or image, by an amendment by CiU, on incommunicado detention, on the duration of detention and opening of written and telegraphic correspondence, or the detention and opening of written correspondence carried out in a separate piece. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe from the People's Parliamentary Group that, by both the number and substance of the matters that have been the subject of a compromise, the will to consensus of this parliamentary group has clearly been demonstrated to illuminate among all a modern Criminal Prosecution Act, and at the same time reasonably shared by all. They will now allow me to make a number of remarks to which the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups who have taken the floor have in turn made. First of all, by the spokesman for Amaiur, who has devoted his fifteen minutes to talking about incommunicado, how incommunicado is torture, and how the Spanish State has tortured some ETA terrorists for decades. I find it intolerable, ladies and gentlemen, that the spokesman for a parliamentary group which has not yet taken the trouble of condemning ETA terrorism should go up to this forum to talk about detention, incommunicado detention, and torture. I would like to remind the absent Member, Mr Urbina, of a figure: 532; 532 days he was locked up in an Ortega Lara, incommunicado from the world, and on the verge of suicide. That was done by those whom Mr Urbina and his bank colleagues have never bothered to condemn as terrorists. It is unacceptable cynicism that goes up into this rostrum and expresses itself in the terms in which it has done so. [[Applauds]] Mr Olabarría has highlighted some points on which we have reached consensus, in particular the changes that have been made in relation to this pre-trial detention, which becomes fully judicial, and which also becomes the control of the forensic doctor precisely to prevent such acts of torture. Mr Olabarria said that with this we are putting the beginning of the end to exceptional legislation such as anti-terrorist legislation. If that can be because we have won the fight to those to whom Mr Urbina does not condemn, because we have defeated terrorism among all, because peace has not given us anyone, but we have sought it with the collective effort of Spanish society. Because we have won, because we have won them, because we have defeated them, now precisely because of that Spanish democracy can be much more guaranteed to meet certain international standards, or with points of view that it is not that they were not met before, but now, precisely because we have won, we can afford to carry out. I just want to mention to Mr Olabaría in connection with his complaint or protest that the Minister of the Interior could, exceptionally, take certain measures in connection with the detention of correspondence. Your Honor, that measure has not been introduced by this bill. This measure is in force because Article 5794 of the Criminal Procedure Act has been in force since 1988, and I would also like to remind Mr De la Rocha that he has mentioned the matter. This issue was introduced in 1988, governing the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, in the positive Spanish legislation. We haven't introduced it. Otherwise, it still exists. What happens is that he is now still subject to greater judicial control. We have been more assured on the basis of a measure that existed and that was certainly not introduced by the People's Party, and that I remember from 1988 until now no one has bothered to pretend to modify, let alone abolish. I thank UPyD for its generosity in accepting the transaction we have proposed in connection with a transactional amendment that has announced to us directly that it would accept. And to Mr Llamazares, who has made his second last speech in this plenary, which allows him to receive for the second time the parabians, applause and good wishes of the whole House, in connection with pre-trial detention, I tell him what I have just said. The pre-emptive detention of correspondence, Mr. Llamazares, is not a novelty introduced by this bill, but it has existed in the House in all the legislatures in which you have been participating without being known to protest about it from this rostrum. I fully agree with Mr Jané on the demonstrations he has made about the privacy, image and honour of the detainee, which are fundamental rights, therefore in force, and which must necessarily be respected by the law enforcement forces when they are in detention, and the compromise amendment that leads us to have to make clear in the attestation under which circumstances such detention was made in order to preserve the constitutional rights of those who are going to be subjected to an investigation process, and who have been arrested by order of the judicial authority. This is not at all contrary to anything, but in favour of the ever deeper and more complete respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution, it is not incompatible to investigate a crime, it is not incompatible to detain a person to be questioned and subjected to all kinds of evidence related to the alleged commission of a crime, with the fact that such detention is practised in circumstances such as to preserve rights that are not suspended from him by the fact of being investigated, and that it does not make him a second-class citizen by the mere fact that he is to be investigated, but that each and every one of them remains untouched in the person in whom he is to be arrested, who remains a citizen in full of his civil rights. Mr. Jané along with other spokespersons have made some statements about the house listening. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly possible today with the legislation in force to order the installation of wiretapping at the home of a person to be investigated. That's possible today. What we are doing with the new regulation is limiting and regulating under what conditions these listenings can be done. Today the police can put microphones in a gentleman's house, what we are regulating is that when that is done it will have to be done under full and complete judicial control, and controlling exactly what dependencies and how long those listenings can be done. Then Mr. De la Rocha's example of someone being able to put a microphone on his bedside table at night is not possible, unless it is in his bedroom, where the judicial authority necessarily understands that listening is to be done for the correct investigation and investigation of the crime. It is in no way a question of placing a microphone in an individual's home so that the conversations of each and every component of the family unit are heard. If it is to be said that in some of the units, for as long as the judge considers it appropriate - on the request of the prosecutor's office or of the State Security Forces and Corpses of course - these listenings must be carried out. With regard to the extension of the investigation, it has been raised by some parliamentary groups which may be agreed by the judge on their own initiative. But your lords will understand that this limitation in the time of the investigation is established precisely to the judge, and that it is not logical that the one who is the limited will decide on his own limitation. If I were allowed a parallel to article 1.280 of the Civil Code, the validity and performance of contracts cannot be left to the discretion of only one of the contractors, it would not seem reasonable that it would be the subject of the limitation who could voluntarily agree to skip the limitation that is being established in time. Mr De la Rocha spoke of improvisation because of the amendments we have been proposing during the Commission's proceedings on this law. I can understand that this accusation is made, as sometimes we are accused of passing the roller of our absolute majority, but both things at the same time that I no longer accept. If we are inflexible in maintaining the text that comes to the House by the Government, since it is the Government that supports this parliamentary group, and we do not accept any changes, then we are powerful and use our absolute majority and do not use parliamentary dialogue. Now, if we use that parliamentary dialogue and offer amendments, and until the last minute we are trying to reach consensus and agreement with the parliamentary groups, then it turns out that what we are doing is improvising. Ladies and gentlemen, agree, choose one thing or another, because blowing and snoring is not possible. In our case, Mr De la Rocha, when you accuse us of improvisation, I have to understand that you acknowledge that we have had the clear, clear and obvious will to reach agreement in Parliament on the handling of this rule. Ladies and gentlemen, improvising is making a new criminal prosecution bill that is referred to the House in July 2011, when the Chambers are then dissolved two months later, and it simply falls and cannot even begin to be dealt with. That's just improvising. This is to try to exhaust the legislature with a remarkable improvement in the criminal procedural legislation, certainly meeting - in passing - some of the international requirements of conventions signed by the Kingdom of Spain, to which we had to give due effect. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez is speaking to us about chapuza, and of course the parliamentary groups are very much in charge of choosing who are to intervene in this plenary in defence of each of the issues, but when I started listening to Mrs Rodríguez talk about the mistakes on the rules of connection and the related crime, and she has included the continuing crime in the matter, I realized that she has not heard anything. The continuing crime is not many crimes, but a crime that is prolonged over time, and of course, as it is one, it has no possibility of dividing itself. From there, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups - all of them - for their willingness to listen to the counter-proposals made by the People's Parliamentary Group, to reach agreements with us in the processing of these two very important rules, and to be able to make a text that probably does not fully satisfy either of the parliamentary groups, but that brings together a reasonable consensus perhaps not for the one hundred and twenty years that have been in force for the rule to which it is replacing, but rather for it not to be one of those ephemeral rules that is adopted one year and must be changed to the next. In Spain we have far more perfect and guaranteed procedural legislation, which better protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, and which in turn allows the State Security Forces and Bodies to be more effective in the prosecution of the crime and in ensuring the security of the Spaniards. That is why I am glad that the two laws will be passed not only by the group that supports the Government, but also by some of the opposition groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u91	Thank you, Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u92	We turn to the agenda item on the debate on all legislative initiatives, beginning with the draft law on the reform of the system for the assessment of damage caused to persons in traffic accidents. The Minister of Justice has the floor for his presentation on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a bill rarely comes to this House as a result of an effort of dialogue and understanding as intense as that which has allowed this reform of the system to be brought to light for the assessment of damage caused to people in the event of traffic accidents. The fact that the Ministries of Economy and Competitiveness and Justice have been co-proponents of the text before the Council of Ministers should not distract us at all from the fundamental merit underlying this legislative proposal, in which the institutions of the State are, as it should be, but where the main initiative lies with civil society, associations that articulate it, and companies in the affected sector. There is therefore no more eloquent response to the amendment to the whole of which the draft has been subjected - in my opinion and with all due respect incomprehensible terms - than the alarm itself of the victims' associations, which have worked so hard on this draft, and which are the first to call for the withdrawal of this amendment. In any case, this gives us the opportunity to be debating and presenting the project today. Before entering into the content of this project, it is worth it that we attend to its gestation, because, as I say, it is, for reasons of legitimacy and thoroughness, the best answer that can be given today from this rostrum, and it has also required a long period of four years of difficult and productive work. The committee of experts officially appointed by the above-mentioned ministries in July 2011 - therefore in the previous legislature and with the previous Government - was later succeeded by a working group, in which the associations of victims of traffic accidents, private insurers, and experts from the public and corporate spheres, the Public Prosecutor's Office for Road Safety, the Insurance Compensation Consortium, the Ministry of Justice, and renowned independent specialists, under the chairmanship and leadership of a prestigious professor of civil law. Thus, far from reaching a hasty agreement, the debate has been deep and progress has been even slow, to the point of requiring several extensions in the terms of reference of the negotiating group. Finally, the consensus reached by all parties - that is precisely the best endorsement of this project - made it possible to raise a proposal from the committee to the Government on 12 December 2014. Following consultations with the Autonomous Communities and in the light of a non-legislative proposal adopted in this House urging the Government to submit the reform, it was approved by the Council of Ministers and referred to this House, where to the surprise of the victims' associations it has encountered this unexpected obstacle that I am convinced that we will be able to overcome, even with the cooperation of the group submitting the amendment, if it finally recapacitates and withdraws it. Meanwhile, associations that have reported their adherence to the new damage assessment system have been innumerable. I am not tired of his lordships, but to mention some are: the Spanish Federation of Brain Damage, the Association of Medular Injuries, the Association for the Prevention of Traffic Accidents, Stop Accidents, and all those who have distinguished themselves for their work in favor of road safety, although we have also not missed the observations of the Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, the Cermi, or the Prosecutor's Office of the Road Safety Coordination Chamber. If this project has raised such a high degree of agreement, it is because it is due to a real need, to a need felt by society. So far there has been a huge disparity in the amounts of compensation in Spain as compared to those that are common in other countries in our environment. It was therefore urgent to update the legal framework governing them, seeking a fair remedy for the damage caused to victims of a traffic accident and their families. We must be aware that, under the current system, the principle of full reparation for damages is not effective in all its dimensions, sometimes causing unfair and dramatic situations, with an added loss of quality of life. It was a duty of all the public authorities, and in particular of the legislator, in addition to claiming victims, to find a formula that would guarantee compliance with such a relevant principle. Hence the importance of a uniform interpretation of the rules of play which give certainty to the injured party, and also to the counterparty, to the insurers as to the viability of their claims. We could say - recapitulating - that the objective of the project is quadruple. First, the aim is to increase the protection of victims through adequate compensation. Secondly, progress should be made in the remedial treatment of those affected by traffic accidents. Thirdly, to establish an active, up-to-date and reality-friendly compensation system, and finally, we also seek - and this is a desirable objective - to speed up justice as an effect of this greater certainty, of the impulse of mediation, and the establishment of a procedure to promote the extrajudicial settlement of the claims of the injured. We have chosen to reform the consolidated text of the Law on Civil and Secure Liability in the Movement of Motor Vehicles, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2004 of 29 October, incorporating the new system into it, and thus avoiding a new regulatory dispersion in this area. Full repair of the damage and its vertebrate repair are two of the fundamental principles of the new system. The first is intended to ensure full compensation for the damage suffered. The second principle, that of vertebration, requires the separate valuation of property damage and non-equity damage. The objective in this assessment of the damage implies compensation in accordance with rules and limits established in the system. No compensation may therefore be fixed for components or for amounts other than those already provided for. Of course it is curious the accusation that the amendment makes the draft not to respond to a system of objective responsibility for the circulatory event, and to reverse the burden of proof in the demonstration of guilt. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not just understood this, because there is no difference between article 1 of the bill and the one in force. Objective responsibility is obviously the one that dispenses with the subjective element, the guilt, which Article 1 has never required. It's just one of so many wrong statements. The rules for the valuation of bodily harm distinguish between compensation for death, for sequelae, and for temporary injuries, and each of these chapters clearly specifies the basic personal harm, the individuals, taking into account the personal, family, social and economic situation, and also the property damage in their double aspect of emerging damage and loss of profits. It is not true, as the amendment points out, that moral damage is not compensated for death or that there are constitutional problems in relation to the medical examination of the victim, since it does not entail any sanction for it, nor is it required to quantify the damage. Death compensation increases its amount by 50 % and those injured by 12,8 %. All those injured who suffer from permanent sequelae experience an average improvement of 35 %, and those injured with only temporary injuries, therefore without sequelae, a small overall reduction of 2 %. Let me just give you two very specific examples: the first would be the death of a 40-year-old father, with a net income of 38,000 euros, who would leave a 30-year-old widow and three 12-, six- and three-year-old children. In this case the compensation is doubled compared to the current system, from €335,000 to €670,000. The second case could be that of a doctor, with an income of more than 60,000 euros per year, who suffers the amputation of a leg; so far the maximum compensation for this circumstance was 350,000 euros, while with the new barmo it would be up to a maximum of 750,000 euros, because it would include items such as loss of profits or future health expenses. Other social advantages in this project include: the right to compensation for persons performing household tasks; enhanced protection for minors; the revision of the amounts in accordance with the pension revaluation index; and the establishment of a monitoring commission to which victims' associations and insurers will be involved. I do not want to overshadow but, on the contrary, openly claim the beneficial effect that the new system will also have on the speeding up of justice, and I dare say that on the maintenance of public health. So far, many injured by minor injuries were forced to go to the criminal court simply to obtain a forensic report. With the decriminalization of this type of injury, many proceedings will be avoided in which the only issue at issue, as I say, is the quantification of compensation, but it is necessary at the same time to prevent such claims from being transferred simply to the civil court. To this end, an out-of-court resolution mechanism prior to the filing of the application is encouraged to allow the person concerned to continue to use forensic medical reports as a means of proof, with the novelty that the institutes of legal medicine will be able to carry out this expertise at a public price. He also told them that this procedure will help to reduce the workload of the courts, especially in civil law, by resolving many cases that are currently being dealt with as mistrials for the claim of personal harm. Of the 800,000 miscarriages that are dealt with in Spain each year, about 200,000 have to do with personal damage due to traffic accidents, most of which are related to very minor or very minor injuries. He also mentioned that the public health system is going to have a clear budget saving. There are public health benefits resulting from the new damages to be compensated, such as future medical expenses, certain rehabilitation costs or replacement needs for severe injured persons' prostheses, which are estimated to amount to around EUR 100 million, which will be compensated by the companies to the health services of the Autonomous Communities. In this way, the concept of foreseeable future health care costs is developed, which are offset by the economic value of health benefits in the hospital and outpatient field that may be specified by the injured person after the stabilization of its sequelae takes place. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is short and final, I believe that all these and some more that I have not mentioned are more than sufficient reasons to highlight this draft and therefore reject the amendment tabled. If anyone has believed that with this amendment he was opposing the government, I assure you he is wrong. With whom he is distanced, with whom he is disposing is with Spanish society and with the victims of traffic accidents. It is they who, for four years, have worked and fought for their interests to find the protection of a social and democratic state of law that they deserve like all citizens, but they in particular. I believe that our responsibility is to listen to them and to allow the law to continue its processing, in the most agile and expeditious way possible, until its immediate entry into force; that the unanimity that has taken place in society on this issue does not find in this House for every answer the division of those we have an obligation to represent faithfully the interests of all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u94	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, an amendment to this bill has been tabled in its entirety by the Group of the Plural Left. Mrs García Álvarez has the floor for her presentation and defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I understand perfectly well that you go up to this rostrum somewhat, say, pissed off because you have an amendment to the whole of this law. Indeed, like any amendment in its entirety, what it is trying to do is to improve the text that is being brought to this House. Mr Minister, there will certainly be - and I will not question it - a number of associations that have sent you your agreement with the text, but we can also tell you that there are associations that have sent us their disagreement with it in the terms of the amendment to the whole that we are presenting to you. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the current text is already twenty years old and the process that has brought the text that is being presented to the House today has also gone a long way. In May 2010, victims'associations raised minimal and irrefutable demands in the face of the current stalemate; demands that have been diluting without pain or glory or convincing explanations. One of them was that no one, no matter how small his injury, should cease to be compensated, and now we are faced with a scale that reduces sequelae and puts almost impossible conditions to believe others. With the excuse of the existence of an uncertain level of fraud, the effect of reducing the number of compensated persons who have indeed suffered damage will be produced. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all act as natural allies in the insurance sector in the fight against fraud; we do not want fraudsters, and the victims' associations have shown their willingness to work together to eliminate them, but the fight against fraud cannot become the elimination of just compensation for all victims and their families. Fraud cannot be argued as a reason to suspect all innocent victims who are 95% of the total and end up cutting compensation rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this amendment to return to the Government because we are faced with a text that will worsen the rights of the 250,000 citizens who have minor and serious injuries each year. We have no doubt that the text seeks to improve the compensation situation of the serious invalids and the deceased, but fortunately - we insist fortunately - they represent less than 1% of the total. Victims'associations have defended the principle of personalization and, finally, the project gives priority to objectivity, which makes it difficult for victims to be fully and individually compensated. The guarantee of justice is the freedom of judges to judge, which, in our view, is severely limited by the Government's text. It is a very complicated scale to understand and therefore bad for the citizens, especially for the most vulnerable, who remain at the foot of the horses. But, in addition, this measure takes place in a very specific context and which you as a minister know perfectly well: the decriminalization of faults; the de facto absence of free justice for those who have fewer resources and are victims of an accident; the reform of the Criminal Code in the field of traffic, which leaves without the protection of the State, of itself very poor and contaminated, the victims and families who already have to face up to in civil proceedings. It is David's struggle against Goliath, only that in this case David fails on many more of the relevant occasions the flood, because fighting against the insurers and all their judicial and media gear is more than difficult, more than complicated. This Criminal Code makes the vast majority who so far were victims of crime - it is estimated that in 97 per cent of the total of 250,000 cases of trafficking per year - it is no longer so, because they lose rights such as care in offices for victims of crime, attestations, expert, judicial reports, the modification of statute of limitations, that the victims have to pay their compensation to professionals who endorse their injuries and claim their rights. We are faced with the privatization of justice, where the strongest will make and despondent his will with many means and without haste to resolve conflicts. We put the fox, minister, to look after the henman. Finally, they are not protected by the Statute of the victim of the crime. In short, we are faced with a strategy that during this legislature has prepared an expoliation of rights to make us all pay what is the insurance. Large disabled people are improving, but still, in our view, they are being mistreated, because insurance covers 70 million euros and rare or impossible it will be that in the most serious cases the total to be received exceeds 5% of that limit. Nor is there any guarantee that this money that is received for a third person, rehabilitation or technical aid in a single prepayment for life, is devoted to this and it is not the Administration who ultimately has to take over these benefits for mismanagement or exhaustion of compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case we are faced with a project that does not guarantee that a person will receive a sufficient pension throughout his life if he is unable to work when there is a limit of EUR 70 million, which should be used for that purpose. Flaco favor is done to the seriously injured by not guaranteeing the integrity of their needs and losses over time. In some cases, looking at the articulated ruffle, we see that we all pay from the public coffers what the cause of the accident and its insurer must pay. The benefit is privatized and losses are socialized. The insurer benefits by falsely claiming unfair enrichment of the victim's social security contributions to be insured and to receive a disability, widowhood or orphanhood pension. Those who carry out their work are undervalued by caring for the family and treated indignantly, assigning a value to that work of 650 euros per month to calculate the compensation to be received. It obliges the injured person - question of dubious fit with constitutional rights - to make his body available to a doctor of the company - I insist, of the company - with whom there is no contractual link, as happens with a contract of insurance of life accidents or where that obligation is explicitly accepted by the insured person. Here they are not insured, they are harmed and, moreover, when there are public medical services with fully trained professionals and, of course, much more independent and difficult to condition than doctors on their part. The family members of the deceased are all included in the same bag and it is not guaranteed that the family nucleus of coexistence and dependence - which directly pays the greatest and grave affective, moral, social, family and economic consequences of death - will receive what is necessary for a sufficient period of time. It is intended to give coffee for everyone according to the principle of objectivity, when it must prevail, we insist, personalization. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this project will leave thousands of victims unclaimed for the difficulties and coercion they will encounter. A few days ago, I published a newspaper with little suspicion of proximity to the ideological positions of my parliamentary group, La Reason, some concrete example of all these issues. In the case of so-called cervical whipping, of annoying and permanent consequences for vertigo and prolonged headaches over time, compensation will fall from EUR 10,686 to EUR 4,447. In the case of partial permanent incapacity or limitation to fully develop activities that the victim carried out prior to the accident, any compensation is lost when it now amounts to EUR 19,172. Ladies and gentlemen, the decrease in traffic accidents and the gradual decrease in the number of dead and seriously injured, which is why we must all congratulate each other, sets out a new picture in which insurance companies will have significant savings on the compensation they are now forced to satisfy and thereby significantly increase their profits. The insurance sector very intelligently proposes this new scale: to increase compensation to what will decrease more quickly and to cut or remove the 200,000 light ones, which will also evolve downwards, but much more - unfortunately - slowly. Only for processing costs of files that will not be opened or paid because the victims will give up, is a very important amount, and if we add that when it is paid, it will be paid much less, the accounts go round. Ladies and gentlemen, we think it is very important that the plenary of the House should take the trouble of discussing this bill. Something so important for 300,000 citizens who are directly victims annually and many more who also suffer the consequences. My group did not want this text to go beyond pain and glory to be dealt with directly in the Commission, because it deserves to be debated in plenary. We have had pressure from some entities to withdraw this amendment as a whole - and even from you right now, Minister - arguing the possible delay in its adoption in the legislature. However, we have preferred to keep it because these hurryes are not good. The excuse for urgency cannot give for good things that deserve a great debate and reflection. Some will like it more and others less; it will come out with changes or it will not come out in this legislature, but it deserves more attention before it comes into force; it deserves an exercise of responsibility, participation and political reflection. We believe that if this draft bane goes ahead like this, it is harming the public coffers and depriving the thousands of victims of accidents and their families of rights. I do not want to end without mentioning that also in this sector have worked, and can continue to work, revolving doors that lead from the public sector to the private sector with excessive ease. That is why we have tabled this amendment as a whole, which, although it is certainly not going to succeed, has at least served to highlight the serious problems for a large number of citizens who also involve this government project. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. At the time of fixing positions, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will refer to the spokesman for the amending group, The Plural Left. Mr Jané and I have a characteristic that unites us, many of us, but one in particular: we have both been presidents of the Road Safety Committee and we both know how the sector is vertebrate. We know who the relevant and representative stakeholders are in the sector and I can assure you that, as far as I am aware - I do not know if Mr Jané will later deny me - the sector does not hold such a critical position as you have at this time in relation to this bill, but on the contrary, if I may say so. I could accept some of his reflections, those of a formal nature, not those of a material nature. Have some of the mandatory reports been omitted? Perhaps the report of the High Council on Traffic, Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility? Yeah, he's skipped out, and he should be running. There is no economic memory, Minister. An economic memory is almost part of the requirements of a bill that must be discussed with the whole for the compensation of its requirements in relation to this bill. Well, there's no economic memory, you're right. Do these shortcomings or absences justify the submission of an amendment to the whole for material rather than formal reasons? Probably not. In our opinion, no. Besides, in relation to your thoughts, I have to disagree. With kindness, too; it is not a question of articulating here a bitter debate on these issues. Look, not only does the law not establish, but it does not even imply the establishment of a system of objective responsibility. If in the field of traffic it was an objective liability system that was to be implemented, the drivers would be better off not going out on the street to drive, for reasons that I do not have to explain to you, I imagine you will know what the consequences of an objective liability system are. The system that is established is the opposite: a system of non-contractual liability, that provided for in article 1902 of the Civil Code and which requires actions that must be considered for the purposes of delineation of responsibilities, severance pay and compensation that are relevant. This is the system of the law, but it cannot be a system of objective liability, as clarified, especially in an area where two rights compete in tension: that of the victim of a disaster and that of the insurance entity or that of the perpetrator of the disaster, which necessarily enter into collision, imperfect collision. It is difficult to find virtuous points of balance in relation to this type of issue. Here we are faced with the problem of what happens when the victim of a accident does not comply with the requirements of the road safety legislation; for example, he does not wear a belt, does not wear the mandatory helmet or protective measures or other deficiencies that may establish a system of distribution of responsibilities between the perpetrator of the accident and the victim of the accident. This has to be identified from a perspective where the case is very complicated. There are thousands of cases, but it has to be judicial in nature or by what you have correctly defined as the dominant position of insurance companies under agreements signed between them, which are often unknown. There you are absolutely right, insurance companies have a dominant position in this sector, it has always been so, and this bill should be an instrument to try to correct this dominant position of insurance companies, but there has not been enough courage or courage to take on this issue. Here we are faced with a very complex dilemma to resolve on which you in your amendment do not even make empirical approximations, and it is how to solve the problem between the perpetrator of the accident and the victim who has failed to comply - as was once said in the area of criminal law and punitive administrative law, non-compliance with regulations - and in the law it is resolved in a much more relevant and coherent way than in the forecasts of your total amendment. There are other issues in your amendment of the whole where I believe, with all honesty and with the affection that you know I profess, that your hand is gone. How can they make invocations of unconstitutionality citing nothing less than a possible unconstitutionality in violation of article 15 of the Spanish Constitution? We are talking about a fundamental right which is that relating to moral damage, to the damage caused to people by traffic accidents in relation to the moral damage which they determine by a kind of omnipreneurial understanding of what these moral damage are. Moral damage we have to try to guide them and identify them with some prudence. Moral damage is an almost metaphysical concept, moral damage is infinite in its dimension, but it cannot be infinite also normatively, and you have to have an element of weighting in relation to what are the moral damages that deserve the application of compensation bars by insurance companies or by who becomes the author of a sinister. Temporary injuries, moral damage due to loss of quality of life for family members of large injured people, all these sequels, aesthetic damage, all this mix of moral damage that you pose, but with open clauses, where moral damage is almost all-inclusive, would prevent a reasonable and financially sustainable insurance system in a country where it is the insurance companies in the end that have to try to compensate for damage caused in the field of road safety, in the field of roads, by virtue of accidents. Failure to protect children and young people, violation of article 39.4 of the Spanish Constitution. There are already measures in the draft law itself that establish mechanisms for the prevention of the safety of children and young people, among others some very peremptory and that go far beyond what is provided for in the comparative law on the protection of the use of helmets and other insurance elements and even on bicycles, mopeds, motor vehicles, etc. The principle of indemnity in question, you say, why?, why is the principle of indemnity in question, if in the end it can end up claiming or invoking effective judicial protection if that dominant position of insurance companies is not satisfactory, despite the fact that the majority of the sector considers that the element of barredness that is established is satisfactory? You are right, as far as light victims are concerned, it could be greatly improved, but neither have light victims through interlocutory organizations expressed any particular reluctance or reservation to the content of the draft law. I have to tell you to err with some gravity when you set up or try to impose on insurance companies that face requirements that belong to the public pension system. If you are asking us that in orphan or widow's pensions, so-called survivor's pensions - which in our opinion and in that of many other spokesmen of this Congress are contributory pensions - should be insurance companies which, by abdication of the public pension system from their allowance, are subordinated to the public pension system in contravention of the essential content of Article 41 of the Constitution, which states that these types of pensions must be borne by the Treasury of Social Security, by the managing bodies of Social Security, I believe that you are seriously wrong. But not only are they seriously mistaken, but they are violating their own underlying philosophy in a system of contributory pensions that we have all contributed, worth redundancy, to build. We could continue to talk about some of the most valuable and argumentative reflections you have made: a lack of fairness, a dominant position of insurance companies, of course, and others, but some of the forecasts and arguments that you have used to defend the amendment of the whole that you have tabled, first of all, are not endorsed by the sector that vertebrates the world of road safety; secondly, they are not endorsed by the constitutional legal order, despite the invocations regarding the unconstitutionality of this bill in the aspects that I have commented on, and, lastly, they are also not endorsed by principles that refer nothing less than to the configuration of a public pension system that you - paradoxically, you - are trying to privatize. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u98	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill whose amendment we are debating in its entirety is of significant human, social and economic importance to our country. According to the data of the General Directorate of Traffic, in 2013 the fleet of all types of motor vehicles in our country reached 30,916,000. In the same year, the number of traffic accidents involving victims amounted to 89,519, resulting in 1,680 deaths and 124,720 serious and minor injuries. We are therefore addressing a legal reform that will directly affect the economy of thousands of families and the conditions of personal recovery and/or compensation of hundreds of thousands of citizens. It is therefore not a legal reform of procedure and cannot be assessed, even if it is of an inevitable technical nature, with exclusively statistical or economic criteria. What we are talking about is how we can improve the life of Spanish society, which must daily assume the risks arising from the growing circulation, establishing an effective, agile and just system of insurance and, where appropriate, of assistance in recovery, as well as of mitigating the effects of all kinds suffered by victims of traffic accidents and their families. From this perspective, the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy shares some of the omissions that are pointed out or the shortcomings that have been expressed by the Group of the Plural Left in its written amendment to the whole. Indeed, this bill is clearly better and we believe that it can be improved in its handling, but it contains in its drafting considerable progress on the current regulation of the valuation of damage caused to persons by traffic accidents. We do not say that, as the associations of those affected themselves have expressed, such as the Spanish Federation of Brain Damage, the Association of Medular Injuries and Major Physically Disabled Persons, the Association for the Prevention of Traffic Accidents and Stop Accidents, to name but a few of them with which we have met. These improvements can include the very fact of updating the law, the upward revision of the medical wake-up call, the rapid resolution of conflicts through the empowerment of out-of-court agreements, the rationalization of the method of calculating loss of profits, the repair of the injured person with the inclusion of future care expenses and the inclusion of compensation for moral damages. Our parliamentary group is also concerned about an important aspect which, due to the nature of this bill, has not been included, but which we believe can cause serious general economic harm if strict and specific regulation is not established. This is the impact that the entry into force on its day of this law could have on the amount of compulsory vehicle insurance policies. It is clear that an increase in the liability of insurance companies will seek to have an impact on the holders of compulsory insurance and that this can be attributed to abuses by large insurance companies because, as has already been pointed out, they exercise a dominant position. If legal and technical criteria are not laid down that limit their discretion in the pricing of policies, we are very much afraid that this dominant position will eventually become an abuse of a dominant position, something which, as you know, European legislation is particularly pursuing. Such a legal gap could have devastating economic and social effects on family economies at a time when the crisis has led, on the one hand, to an inevitable ageing of our country's mobile fleet and, at the same time, to a significant increase in policies with compulsory insurance against insurance at all risk, which is obvious to have fallen dramatically. We believe that this is an issue whose regulation should be incorporated into this bill during the proceedings in this House. We believe that on this occasion the saying is true that the best is the enemy of the good. Our group believes that we must make the good even better through the processing of this bill. For all that, our group will oppose the amendment as a whole with the intention of bringing forward a significantly improved law on the draft submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u100	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today at the plenary session of the House we are debating a bill that is late, very late. More than four years ago, we started working with a group of experts, and what Convergence i Unió hoped was that this bill would be passed promptly. We will therefore vote against the amendment to the full refund. The amendment has generated a debate in plenary - it is always necessary - but calls for the bill to be returned to the Government. We are in favour of this long-awaited bill being dealt with, and promptly. Mr Olabarría, who presided over the last parliamentary term of the Commission on Road Safety, said so, and it was a recurring subject of traffic accidents. When I chaired it in the 2004-2008 Legislature, it was also a recurring topic. Now, when Mr Macias, who is also with us in the debate, chairs the Committee on Road Safety, is a subject repeatedly asked for: this new draft is necessary. The former is more than twenty years old, has become outdated. We are asked by the affected, and we from Convergence and Union give them support because we cannot doubt in any way what Aesleme and her spokesman, Dona Mar Cogollos, asks us. We cannot doubt - or doubt - what PAT and its representative Mrs Eugenia Doménech is asking us to do. [[Prevention of Traffic Accidents]] We cannot doubt Fedace, Predif, Aspaym, Cermi. The Cermi makes us some terminological contributions that we will collect, but it also asks us to approve the new barmo promptly, since every day that happens is a day less than we have for this long-awaited bill to come into force. Therefore, it can certainly be improved as all standards, but this comes from a previous balance. There are also Unespa - the insurance sector -, the victims, those affected, the prosecution - has intervened Don Bartolomé Vargas, I want to put in value because he is a person very involved in all the issues that affect road safety - all this has gone by the hand of the coordinator of the working group, Professor Miquel Martín Casals, and of the group of experts who have involved themselves in weaving complicitys and that balance. There are many aspects defended by the amending group that we have understood since Convergence i Unió, but if they were accepted they would alter the balance and we would not have the final result of a draft consensus that can be adopted in this House and in this legislature. We are therefore going to reject the refund amendment. We are in favour of this bill being dealt with promptly. We ask the People's Parliamentary Group - one of its accompanying spokesmen is present - not to sign further extensions of amendments to the text of this bill, because if we extend the deadline for amendments to the text, we will end up with a legislative deadlock that will prevent this future law from being in the 'Official State Gazette' and in force as soon as possible. We ask for promptness, with a non-accelerated procedure, to allow us to study any amendments that may be tabled. I would point out that since Convergence i Unió will be the amendments that ask us from the consensus who asked us to move this bill promptly. Therefore, we are not going to betray them and we are not going to fall into the temptation - which exists - to improve certain compensations, although we know that it would be very legitimate to do so, but that it would cause the bill not to have the consensus necessary to be adopted. Mr Martínez-Pujalte has now entered the plenary session, who knows very well that the Committee on Economic Affairs, in which he is the spokesman, adopted a non-joint bill at the end of December, which was signed by the Socialist Group, the Basque Group and the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, in which the Government was asked to present the bill promptly. The Government has done so late, but has finally presented it. From Convergència i Unió we ask that as soon as possible we have the amendments to the joint text of all the groups - our group already has them prepared - and that as soon as possible the presentation in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy can be agreed. We would have liked her to go to the Justice Committee, but she is very busy with many bills. We call for the deadline to be brought to an end soon so that we have more time to discuss the amendments, because if we do not find that, in the end, the deadline will be hasty and will not allow us to discuss all the amendments that are submitted to the joint text and see to what extent they are of consensus and can bring us an improvement in the processing of this bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we express the absolute support of Convergence i Joined this bill, rejection of the return requested by the Group of the Plural Left and appeal to consensus in its generation. We hope that it will be a consensus that can be preached throughout its parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, Mr Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, nobody is more aware of the importance of the law that we are debating today than the Socialist Group, nor has any other parliamentary group promoted further initiatives to implement the reform of the draft. Just the facts as evidence. It was a socialist government that created and promoted a committee of experts in 2010 with the task of drafting proposals for the reform of the valuation system. There are numerous initiatives promoted by the Socialist Group to urge the reform of this law: petitions for appearances, non-law proposals and even motions for resolutions in the debate on the state of the nation. Let me remind you of some of them. Almost four years ago, in September 2011, we finished the legislature in the Commission on Road Safety and Prevention of Traffic Accidents by debating a non-legislative proposal from my group so that, regardless of the end of the legislature or the change of government, the work in progress for the reform of the draft law would be completed and a new one adopted. At the first session of the new Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility, the first PNL that my group was debating again called on the Government to modify the system for the assessment of road traffic injuries, having regard to the conclusions drawn by the working group. That is to this day, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, the draft entered this House for processing a few weeks ago and we now have to decide whether to ask the Government to withdraw it and present a new one, on the basis of the arguments put to us by the Plural Left, which would mean - as has already been said - delaying its approval sine die and initiating a new process with all that it entails, or following its processing and improving it with partial amendments. The question to be asked then is: Does the proposed system improve the current situation? Is your return justifiable? From our point of view, while it contains some imbalances that we must correct, it is clear that the current draft, which has become obsolete, improves in many respects, as has been said. I would remind you that its creation dates back to 1995 and that, during all this time, compensation has not been updated at all. If we compare it to the rest of Europe, compensation to the dead and seriously injured is higher than in Spain, although insurance premiums are roughly the same, which corrects the reform proposal. This system, known as baremo, has for years been the subject of continuous doctrinal and jurisprudential interpretations because of the lack of vertebration of the damage to the system, the inadequacy of certain remedial parts and the lack of phase of some of its rules and criteria over time, something that the project also comes to remedy. In this respect, the proposed scale introduces clear improvements with respect to the current scale. They are technical improvements - mainly adaptation of the system to the principles of compensation and incorporation of an objective system of compensation for loss of profits - as well as for the significant increase in compensation in the event of death and large injuries. The proposal also reflects the conclusions of the working group that has been discussing reform for years. In 2010, the Government set up a committee of experts in the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pensions to prepare proposals for the reform of the valuation system. Among the objectives with which the commission was constituted was to face the reform, drawing inspiration and respecting the basic principles of compensation for bodily harm - basically the integrity of the reparation, in order to place the victim in a position as similar as possible to that to which the accident would not have occurred - and that of integration - consisting in the need to separate the valuation of the extra-patrimonial damage from the valuation of the property damage - and within each class to separate the different subconcepts of damage without overlaps or loopholes, overcoming the recourse to the overall valuation of moral damage and economic damage, a mandate that was also included in the final report. As you know, in May 2013 the commission completed its work and handed over the report to the general management, and a working group was then set up to draft the preliminary draft law, the basis of which was the consensus that was later transformed into the law. Finally, something unusual - as has already been said - should be highlighted, such as the broad consensus reached between the associations concerned with the interests of victims of trafficking, and this is demonstrated by the fact that many associations have acceded to the draft reform of the draft law. They have already been mentioned, but I will also point them out: Fedace, Apanefa, Trace, Aspaym, Aesleme, PAT-APAT, Stop Accidents, Predif and Cermi. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your efforts and dedication. Please know that it is the wish of this group to improve the text to the extent possible so that it can be adopted before the end of this parliamentary term. For all these reasons, we believe that it is more justified to introduce partial amendments and to facilitate their adoption rather than to request their return, especially when it is agreed by all these associations. However, aware that there are imbalances that need to be corrected, the Socialist Group has already announced to them that it will present a set of amendments that meet the following basic objectives: firstly, to improve the system for the compensation of minor injuries, clearly damaged in the reform - something that is essential for us to correct - by removing mainly those obstacles in the article that hinder access to compensation or by adapting criteria and modifications of the medical standard; secondly, to adapt the system to the jurisprudence and doctrinal criteria that are most beneficial to victims, for example the compatibility of prison interests with moratoriums or the modification of the regime of legal presumptions; thirdly, to improve the calculation of compensation amounts to the most vulnerable victims - those under the age of 16, victims with intergravatory consequences or persons dedicated to the tasks of the home - or the introduction of corrections in the actuarial calculation in the case of victims who are not entitled to pension; fourthly, to improve the calculation of the amounts of compensation for the most vulnerable victims - those under the age of 16 years, victims with intergravatory sequels or persons dedicated to the tasks of home - or persons - or persons who are clearly involved in the implementation of the errors of the whole-of-of-of-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-for-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the- [[The lady]] In short, although it is not perfect, it is a project that greatly improves the current framework and with a high degree of consensus. It still contains imbalances that should be pointed out and corrected. That is why we think it is more appropriate to make partial amendments instead of asking for them to be returned. The People's Group has the opportunity to extend the initial consensus to its processing, correcting these imbalances and especially improving the evidence of the slight consequences that the current wording makes quite difficult. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Corcuera. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group with regard to the amendment to the whole amendment tabled by the Plural Left to the draft law reforming the system for assessing the damage caused to persons in traffic accidents. The first thing I must say, like the other speakers in the parliamentary groups, is my surprise at the introduction of this amendment. I say surprise, because on very few occasions a government project reaches such a broad degree of consensus with the sectors directly affected. In this case, both the vast majority of associations of accident victims - I will not repeat them, because they were already cited by the minister and by the rest of the spokesmen - and the employer in which insurance companies and lawyers specializing in civil liability are grouped, etc., have shown their satisfaction with the text proposed by the Government and which we are debating today. It is not a matter, Mrs García Álvarez, of a struggle, as you defined it, between insurance companies and victims; talking about a struggle is the only thing that demonstrates your personal prejudices. What is at stake is that the sectors concerned, the victims and the insurance companies have reached a virtually complete consensus on the text that we are now bringing to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the current text was necessary because after more than twenty years of force it was necessary to adapt to the set of European directives adopted in the field of motor insurance, mostly aimed at increasing the protection of victims through adequate compensation. To this end, in 2011 the Government established a commission of experts which has been working intensively for less than four years, the result of which is this proposal for a full text, accompanied by the tables containing the compensation to be paid to victims of traffic accidents. I would like to mention some of the advantages of the system proposed in the draft with respect to the current one. First, there is an average increase in the amount of compensation above 16 %. Secondly, it adapts our legislation to the principles of the system's indemnity and objectivity through an easy-to-implement structure in order to promote a speedy resolution of conflicts and to the extent possible to increase extra-judicial transactions. Thirdly, a better individualization of the damage is achieved by reviewing the different harm that the victim may suffer, taking into account his or her personal, family and economic circumstances. In this regard, a fully separate system is established for the treatment of property damage and extra-patrimonial damage. Fourthly, death benefits are improved by individualizing them in accordance with family structures. At this point, I would like to point out that the compensation for this is increased by 50%. Fifthly, with regard to the follow-up compensation, the medical follow-up allowance is reviewed in full in order to adapt it to the current state of science and especially to strengthen the reparation of the great injured, indemnifying the damage and the emerging damage resulting from future care costs. I would also like to point out that compensation for this is increased by an average of 35%. Sixthly, an objective system of compensation for loss of profits is incorporated, exceeding the one currently known as the correction factor and establishing a system based on two factors: the multiplying, which is constituted by the victim's income, and a multiplier which results from combining various factors such as duration, risk of death or discount interest rates. With the new system now proposed to compensate for property damage, i.e. emerging damage and loss of profits, compensation for this is increased by more than 250 per cent, and as a novelty includes the foreseeable costs of future life-saving health care for large injured persons, as well as home and outpatient rehabilitation and assistance to third parties. Finally, and also as a novelty, the right to compensation for economic damage suffered in the light of the performance of household tasks is incorporated. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the goodness of the text we are debating today, the Plural Left is presenting a whole amendment, certainly without alternative text. Mrs García, you said that the minister would not be angry because what you are trying to do is to improve the text; we do not know your text because you have not presented any alternative, and it also lacks the slightest legal basis. The amendment is based on five points. They argue, first, that the project does not respond to a system of objective responsibility for the circulatory event. Ladies and gentlemen, even if it seems obvious to say so, it must be remembered that Article 1 of the draft does not differ in any way from the one in force with regard to liability, and in both the current text and the draft that we are discussing today only the causal link between action and damage is required. Mrs García, the responsibility arising from a traffic accident - as the spokesman of the Basque Group, Mr Olabarria, has explained - is that of article 1902 et seq. of the Civil Code, that is, an extra contractual responsibility. They also argue that the victim is allegedly unprotected in the event of a collusion of guilt. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, the victim of an accident will be better protected in the event that there is a statement of guilt because the compensation that may be payable to him will never be reduced beyond 75%, even if the degree of attendance is greater. Therefore - it seems that you have been the only ones who have not understood this - far from being harmed, with the new text the victims will find more protection than at present; on the other hand, the system is given greater legal certainty. The third of its arguments refers to the possible unconstitutionality of an alleged obligation of the victim to be examined by the insurers as a legal requirement for them to offer the binding proposal for compensation. Again, I must tell you that you have not understood the text. What will happen is that if the victim does not allow his or her examination they will not begin to become his or her moratoria interests for the insurer, which seems normal when the delay occurs at the will of the victim himself or herself. Furthermore, if we all agree that the binding proposal is good for both parties in order to achieve an out-of-court solution, you will already tell me how the insurer will quantify the personal damage without a minimum examination of the victim. In his amendment they certainly do not say so; let us hope that they will do so in the course of amendments to the joint text. Fourthly, they question the principle of indemnity in the case of compensation for moral damage or assistance in the appearance of guilt. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that quantifying the moral damage resulting from a death is difficult enough not to say impossible, since even with all the gold in the world one could repair the loss of one person. As I said at the outset, if the amounts set out in the draft are the result of the consensus reached between the vast majority of victim associations, lawyers, insurance companies, etc., it does not seem prudent to modify them without the slightest justification, as you request. Finally, it justifies in its amendment to the whole an alleged lack of equity with regard to victims with less serious injuries by establishing requirements that are much more demanding than the current law. It is true that the project chooses to moderate in lower-ranking injuries the basic personal compensation, but not others, such as the particular personal injury for loss of quality of life, so in the end the compensation does not have to be less than the current one. Therefore, no right of compensation is limited at any time to any victim; on the contrary, it has been decided to increase very significantly, as I have already emphasized during my intervention, the protection of the great injured and the relatives of the deceased, in accordance with the agreement reached by the parties. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, as a safeguard of the possible shortcomings that may be contained in the draft, the first provision of its additional provision provides for the establishment of a committee to monitor the evaluation system, which will issue a reasoned report on it, as well as suggestions for improving the system. This commission shall consist of the victims' associations and the representatives of the insurance companies. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, of all the demonstrations in favour of this project that have made many associations of victims, I would like to make my own the words of the Spanish Association of Lawyers Specialising in Civil Liability and Insurance when it expressed - I say quotes - that the new barmo will allow us to evolve considerably in this matter by having a system of valuation of damages much higher than the previous one. If our families were to have a traffic accident, we would prefer the new barmo to be in effect because we would be much better protected. The new barmo solves the real problems much better. This is what it is about - we are debating it today - to solve problems and to protect more and better the victims of accidents. I shall now conclude, Madam President, by asking the Plural Left to withdraw its amendment in its entirety, as it lacks the slightest legal justification for the return of the text. If not, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u107	We turn to the last item on the agenda: Discussion of the whole proposed organic law to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Four amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal for an organic law. For the defence of these, Mrs Fernández has the floor for the Joint Group. The Joint Group will act both to defend its two amendments to the whole of the alternative text and to lay down its position. Mrs. Fernández begins.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend our alternative text to this bill put forward by the People's Group, which is nothing other than the current Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March on sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary termination of pregnancy, in its current terms, as I have just commented. We do so, ladies and gentlemen, for one reason, because we are perfectly aware that this was a law not only drawn up and approved from total and absolute responsibility, but also tremendously reflected in the course of the paper work. It has nothing to do with the one with these papers that we are used to in this legislature, which last ten minutes; no, they were speeches of many weeks. But even, ladies and gentlemen, it was the subject of much reflection for those people who, as is the case of the Member who is speaking, participated in the Commission of study on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which was held in the General Courts, in Congress specifically, between 30 October 2008 and 25 February 2009; a commission of study in which many people participated: from representatives of the scientific community to representatives from different areas of the legal world: prosecutors, judges, lawyers; from the areas of health to education; from social work to representatives of NGOs, etc. And, ladies and gentlemen, while it is true that some of the people who participated in this committee also put forward proposals such as those made to us today by the People's Group, it is also true that they were very minority proposals, the majority conclusion being that we approved this report by the committee of study, not by the deputies of this Congress, but by the majority of the participants that it was necessary to respond to a social demand that had existed for many years, after checking the progress of the previous Abortion Act, and that obliged the legislator, the legislators and the legislators to adopt a law that guaranteed at least three issues: legal security, health security and the necessary preventive measures to reduce abortions. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we took into account when drafting this law which we are presenting today as an alternative text to the proposal of the People's Party and which, after the years that are in force, we have found that women who have to interrupt a pregnancy have health security, have legal certainty and that the number of abortions has also been reduced, because the preventive measures envisaged by the law itself are designed to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this objective of reducing abortions is also very difficult to achieve in the terms that we had for a fundamental reason, and that the law is not sufficiently developed in these areas, education and health, for these preventions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we consider from the Galego Nationalist Block that the law is good and what it needs, in addition to improvements that we would obviously expect in the future, what it needs at the present time is to develop, especially in those aspects that would affect prevention, the reduction of abortions. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall that, at the time of the adoption of this text, the People's Party was also justified for the same reason that today it proposes to amend the law in order not to vote in favour of it, a justification which was clearly an issue which had nothing to do with reality, the arguments which were given were indeed false because the law in Article 13(4) already perfectly specifies the precautions to be taken into account for young women of sixteen and seventeen years of age, and the studies in this regard indicate, ladies and gentlemen, that less than 10% of women in this age group have come to abortion without the presence of their parents and in all cases, as we have said at some point in time,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u109	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u110	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... as we have said on some occasion, it was duly justified, by family violence, by uprooting, etc. Therefore, we cannot understand that from seriousness, from reflection and from responsibility a proposal such as this could be made that would leave many young people without the necessary security to interrupt a pregnancy. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe - and I conclude, Madam President - that the People's Party, the People's Group, chooses to save its party electorally, although I do not think it is possible with these measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u111	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u112	... and we choose, ladies and gentlemen, to save many young people who would be led to an abortion, to an intervention of the pregnancy in hiding, without the necessary health insurance and, therefore, with the danger that this would mean for their lives.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u113	Mrs. Fernández, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u114	We want to express our strong and total disagreement with the proposal of the People's Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the same group, Mrs Jordà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party seeks to rob the right of 16- and 17-year-olds to decide on their own motherhood and to empower the father and mother to impose an unwanted motherhood, and above all they have the character of talking about child protection. The best protection that a minor and a child can have is that maternity is voluntary and obviously not imposed. We therefore defend his freedom to decide on a motherhood that will undoubtedly mark his whole life and that of the son or daughter he might have, and we absolutely oppose the will of the People's Party to take away this right from him; I stress it, right. If they seek to avoid abortions, the best way to do so is not by denying rights, but through good emotional education, good sexual and reproductive education and at the same time ensuring universal access to all contraceptive methods. In this regard, we call for the free use of contraceptive methods for young people and for groups with limited resources to access them. Simplifying much - so that some retrograde minds understand it - the message is: we want condoms for all and for all, of course - we insist on it - accompanied by a good affective, sexual and reproductive education, which is necessarily imparted in schools and institutes and which allows young people and young people to be free to decide and exercise freely what they want to do with their body, ladies and gentlemen, with their body, either individually or collectively. A good education that allows to banish retrograde conceptions, such as those that censored and crucified the Generalitat councillor, Marina Geli, for defending sexual freedom and seeking to educate in freedom. Let us once and for all bury national Catholicism, this Francoist national Catholicism and censorship and taboos to speak plainly and freely of masturbation, of how a condom is properly placed, of the variety and sexual and affective diversity or of the methods of contraception. On the other hand, it is necessary to break with the obsession of penetration or the myth of fulfilling in bed. It is necessary to promote education and to stress the power of caresses, the power of trust, of dialogue for a satisfactory and obviously healthy affective and sexual relationship for those who practice it freely. A good education in affective, sexual and reproductive health would not only make a society freer and evidently happier, but would also help to prevent sexually transmitted diseases and precisely unwanted pregnancies. Consequently, expenditure on sexually transmitted diseases and the need to discontinue such pregnancies would also be reduced. But when prevention fails, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for women to be able to decide freely about their motherhood. The law on voluntary termination of pregnancy adopted by progressive forces in this House in 2010 represented an important step forward in women's rights to decide on their own body, and it is a step forward that has also led to a decrease in voluntary terminations of pregnancy among the youngest population. However, we believe that this law can be amended to advance the development of rights, for example by eliminating the deadline for termination of pregnancy in cases of serious risk to the life or health of the pregnant woman, of course linked, as stipulated by law, to the mandatory medical report. I'm finishing up. As we have already argued in the handling of the law, we believe that progress must be made by extending the deadline for the voluntary termination of pregnancy to twenty-two weeks. Someone will ask, "Why twenty-two weeks?" Because it is the time when there is consensus among the scientific community on fetal viability. Extending the term of fourteen to twenty-two weeks, beyond relying on scientific consensus, would allow, especially in the case of minors, a better assessment of the ability to maintain the creature and the will to decide on a motherhood that implies a great responsibility and that will forever mark one's life. Ladies and gentlemen, whether you like your sexism or not, only women must decide on their own body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the same group, Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have given my opinion and that of my party on this subject on numerous occasions and, therefore, I am not going to repeat our arguments today to criticise both the reform of the Socialist Party and this very limited amendment that the People's Party is pushing for. Obviously, I am not going to support the return amendments with alternative text to fully recover Zapatero's law, which we still consider unconstitutional, much less so that an even more cumbersome regulation can be adopted, as the ERC claims, delaying the deadline for abortion from fourteen to twenty-two weeks. But we do think it is appropriate to open a debate in order to know the solutions and approaches of each group and its proposals to prevent more effectively unwanted pregnancies, to reduce the number of abortions, to promote a culture in defense of life; in short, to know what your idea is, that of each of you, of your parties, of a welfare state in the twenty-first century that wants to be called this. On this matter, ladies and gentlemen, my party continues to defend the same thing. First, that the unborn is a human being just as we were any of us. Secondly, the act of abortion is not simply an aesthetic intervention. And, third, that we want the State to regulate in a more balanced way the legal positions of mothers who intend to cease to be, on the one hand, and of the unborn who, in the face of this difficult, complex decision, can die. Defending the most unprotected of nature, the most defenceless, seems to us, ladies and gentlemen, to be the most progressive that can be today. I finish, Madam President, with a request. In July 2010, the Constitutional Court issued a decision on the request of 71 deputies of this House to suspend the validity of several articles of Law 2/2010 on Abortion, included in the unconstitutionality appeal filed on 1 June 2010. I do not have time to assess the legal reasons for that refusal, but I must recall something that the Constitutional Court also said in that order - I am sorry to say -: Finally, on the basis of what is interested in the complaint and what is alleged by the State lawyer, this Constitutional Court will give priority to the processing and resolution of this appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know the reasons, the reasons, I understand the complexity, which I imagine is the greatest in this appeal, and I will not interpret the interpreter of the constitutionality of the laws, but I do ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum, with complete humility and respect, to make a decision. [[The Lord]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u119	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mr Baldoví, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Knowing in advance that I am not going to arouse so much sympathy in the People's Group, I begin. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Are we talking about women, about protecting underage women, or are we talking about votes? You should not be hypocritical and acknowledge that, every time this issue is raised here, we talk about votes; votes lost by the PP; I insist, of the woodcut that were stuck on the 24th, although Rita Barberá described it with another noun. That's why, after the whole legislature got dizzy, they end up presenting this here today. In 2014, in the first nine months alone, 25,324 women discontinued their pregnancy. Of those over 25,324, they only went to abortion without the consent of their parents 113. That is, a small 0.44 % of the total. But this small group of women constitutes a very high-risk subgroup, with a greater need for protection by law, because it is precisely those women who cannot come to seek help, comfort and support from their parents and are forced to perform this personal drama alone. The consequence of his law is to condemn them to illegal and clandestine abortion, with the serious risks to their lives that this may entail. And this, for what purpose? In order as dirty as recovering the lost votes of the anti-abortion sector. They will put the lives of underage women at risk in exchange for a handful of votes. A woman who has decided to terminate her pregnancy will do so with her consent or without her consent; she will find the way and this, unfortunately, can cost her life. It is absurd that if a 16-year-old girl can decide whether to marry, whether to bind the tubes, whether to have a child or if to emancipate, she can be forced against her judgment and decision to be a mother for life. And all this - I insist - so that the PP does not lose so many votes. If they really acted against the corruption of their party, if they dedicated themselves to internal cleansing, if they collaborated with justice, it would be a far more effective and fair way than to regain their lost votes. Much fairer than doing so at the expense of the suffering of underage women, who can't even get their parents' support in a trance as hard as having to interrupt a pregnancy. Honestly, and I conclude, this is a heartless, cruel and unnecessary reform worthy of a soulless government like yours. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u121	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Enbeita, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the hands of the directors of'maybe abortion has something to do with ETA but not too much', it comes now'maybe we can't take all the rights of women out of a trap, so let's do it little by little'. In this endeavour, the People's Parliamentary Group brings us a proposal for a law which says that it strengthens the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Strengthen protection, ladies and gentlemen. Can anyone explain to me where this law has something to do with the protection of minors? This law will leave to someone a decision as personal as interrupting a pregnancy. Reclaim to me that if such a mother or such a father; but they made their life, and a young woman of sixteen or seventeen years is entitled to build her own. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens when one of the two parents says yes and the other says no? Does this law not make it possible to use the rights of young women as a currency of exchange in a divorce? Have you thought about what can happen in homes where rape is inside the walls of the house or where abuse of women is a reality? What will happen when the parents of a minor are religious, with all their rights and all respect, and a minor does not share - does not have why - their ethical or moral criteria? What will happen in those cases? Ladies and gentlemen, when they talk about the Civil Code in their proposed law they contradict each other, because according to the Civil Code marrying sixteen years or having children is legal, or at least there is no law that obliges anyone to have a permit to give birth to sixteen or seventeen. Then why do we force ourselves to get one so we don't give birth? They say that the current law prevents parents and guardians from fulfilling the obligation contained in the Civil Code, depriving minors of the protection that the same legislative text recognizes of being able to count at a crucial and complicated time in their lives with the assistance of those who exercise their parental authority. Let's see, what is the law that prevents that obligation from guardians, or parents, or whoever it is? The law only says that from the age of 16 any woman is mature enough to decide what to do with her pregnancy. This does not mean that they do not share or that their parents, guardians or confessors are prohibited from taking part in this decision. You know better than anyone that happens in most cases. Minors who wish to have an abortion come to the clinics with permission and in most cases in the company of their parents or guardians. For obligations, yours, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. You do forbid young women to exercise a right such as to decide on their body, in case there is no one in your home who wants to accompany them at a crucial and complicated time, as you describe. It is not true that the current law obliges anyone not to go with his daughter or his guardianship in such a situation, what is true is that now with his new law those who want to pass from the subject have enough not to sign the permit and there the young woman with her lump. How hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen! It seems that you or UPN pretend that all children conceived are born and so on paper is a very bucolic and very beautiful intention, but reality paints us things much more cruel than their laws and cuts provoke in children when they are already born. This does not take into account all that you have done with hundreds of children your friends, bishops and others, who now go by your hand claiming I do not know what moral. Seriously, we have said this as active, passive and even peripheral. We do not want them to protect us, we want to be free; free from false morals, free from stereotypes of ideal women, free from imposed maternity, free from becoming incubators, free from religions that do not even consider us people, free from patriarchal societies, free from sexist policies, free from their absurd laws that repress our rights and free to educate our daughters in a sexual, natural and diverse education. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. For the UI Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mrs De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u124	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, on 14 April my group has already tabled in practice an amendment to all of them calling for the withdrawal of the bill, with which you are committed to undermining and curtailing the rights of the most vulnerable young women to access legal and safe abortion. Today we demand it once again through this alternative text and we do so with the clear objective that the rights of women to decide on their own bodies are truly guaranteed in a free and responsible manner, in order to prevent the arbitrary conduct of clearly ideological and electoral measures by the Government of the People's Party from endangering the health and life of underage women or women with modified judicial capacity. With our alternative we propose, therefore, to guarantee the right of women to decide whether or not they want to have children, how many and when they want to have them, free from pressure, discrimination and violence, and to effectively guarantee the right to have a full and healthy sexual and reproductive life. As you have seen, ladies and gentlemen, we are demanding that you comply with something which, despite the most reactionary sectors that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, defend, is an indispensable right for the achievement of other human rights of women, rights recognised at European and international level in many treaties and recommendations that have been ratified and approved by the Spanish State in all cases. Rights that, ultimately, the People's Party, making use of and abuse of its absolute majority, has sought to mutilate over and over again in this legislature for pure electoral interest and with a marked religious and ultra-conservative bias. Because if these were certainly not the reasons that motivate the People's Party to carry out these reforms of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and voluntary termination of pregnancy, and on the contrary, we would really like to protect and support younger and more vulnerable women in the face of the difficult decision to exercise their motherhood, we have no doubt that at least legal, health and social reports were provided to support a measure of this kind. Reports which, on the contrary, have eluded in a trickery and knowing that they would leave their true intentions in evidence and without solid arguments. Moreover, they are committed to denying this extreme and say that they have used reports, those that in their day served for the elaboration of the normative text adopted in 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which, according to their reading, forced 16- and 17-year-old women to inform and obtain the compulsory consent of parents in order to have access to abortion. The practice - if it had been so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - has highlighted the validity of these reports, because today the majority of the young women - have been said and must be repeated - come to the clinics to interrupt their pregnancy with the help and support of their parents, and only avoid informed consent those who find themselves in a serious situation of risk for ill-treatment, sexual abuse or family uprooting, precisely the most vulnerable young women, to whom the current law protects in a special way with the exception referred to in article 13 that the People's Party now intends to eliminate. If they really wanted to strengthen the protection of young women at a crucial time in their lives, and in the face of the complicated and costly decision to decide whether to be mothers or not in the face of an unwanted pregnancy, they should attend to and take into account the alternative proposals that we are presenting to them today, not only the Plural Left, but also the rest of the opposition groups. Ladies and gentlemen, there are proposals to maintain the existing law by believing that the text has served to protect the right to decide of women, including minors, and by urging them in our case to develop effectively sexual and reproductive health policies based on education in the prevention of unwanted pregnancies. Proposals aimed at alleviating the shortcomings identified in the last five years of the implementation of the current law and which have been proven and found to be the best instrument to reduce the number of abortions. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has tried over and over again to overstep women's rights, as I said before, throughout the whole legislature. They call themselves liberals, they claim to defend the individual freedom of people, but then they promote laws that invade even the most intimate of human beings. You are no one to regulate the womb of any woman; you are no one to tell a woman whether or not you should have a child you do not want; you are no one to condition the existence of people; you have not voted to restrict the freedom of citizens and especially of women, but to exercise the government of your mandate by defending and guaranteeing their rights. The most serious of that attitude that I have just mentioned is that they are also trying to commit this assault on the basis of lies and false data in order to try to hide this vileness. We are more than tired - we have to tell you - of listening to the most extreme right-wing spokespersons telling lies, exaggerations and falsehoods about how our young people face such a critical moment in their lives as is the decision to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy. The practice shows that even young women have not taken abortion as another contraceptive method, nor have they mostly gone alone to abort licensed private clinics, but almost all of them have been accompanied by their parents. Only, and unfortunately, a very limited number of young people are deprived of this help because they are in this situation, which I have already said is serious, very serious, because of ill-treatment, sexual abuse or family uprooting. His mania of intervening in the sphere of the private, of the intimate, is absolutely unacceptable and untrue. The women of this country have shown this Government that they do not tolerate any command over their bodies, that they will not allow any institution, to have its character, to decide for themselves and their bodies. The mobilization of women could stop their attempts to pass a law that ended their rights of access to legal and safe abortion in practice and led a minister, Mr Gallardón, a minister who intended to legislate looking to the most reactionary right. We live in the 21st century. There have been many advances and achievements that we have achieved. No one's given us anything to women. It has been many years of struggle, mobilizations, concentrations, demonstrations and fights for our rights, much effort so that now we are asked to take a step back, to give back part of our freedom. We're not going to consent and we're not going to. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let me warn you before concluding my speech by putting on my lips the words of Concepción Arenal when I said that error is a weapon that always ends up shooting at the one who uses it. This same sentence was heard by Mr Ruiz-Gallardón and he was able to verify its veracity in his political flesh. If they persist in maintaining this measure against the youngest and most vulnerable women, without listening to the proposals of the majority of opposition groups and society for the most part, they will find that they will not only not achieve the goal of getting a handful of more votes, but will not last beyond what we delay in throwing them democratically in the ballot box. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u125	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. Mrs Montón spoke on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, women's health and lives are worth much more than a handful of votes. The social majority has said this all the time: no, let them not amend the Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Pregnancy Discontinuation Act. Today the Socialist Group is saying this again: no. The current Abortion Act is a good law, a law passed with consensus - few laws have had such participatory and transparent treatment - a law that fulfils the objective, with the obligation to protect the life and health of women, including young women, while respecting their right to decide on their motherhood. But the PP does not want to give up this electoralist bait, which soft without modesty before each election call. Now, with an already exhausted legislature, they continue to insist; now they are harassing one last blow to women's rights. Rajoy is practicing the policy of burning land, demolishing the progress made with socialist governments in gender equality policies. This is the legislature of inequality, the legislature that we will remember for cuts and setbacks on equality between women and men. Today's bill is so shameful that there has been no minister who wanted to defend it. It has had to be the People's Parliamentary Group who brings her to this House through the back door, also to circumvent the mandatory reports of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State. Again they prepare the electoral campaign threatening women's rights, but the principle of equality, citizenship rights, the ability to decide freely on essential aspects, fundamental to life, sexual and reproductive rights, are not removed and put them according to the surveys. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, our citizenship rights are not electoral goods, they cannot be dealt with. We know the generals are coming. Just a couple of days ago Minister Catalá assured that the approval of this law will be by September. Very timely, for the pre-campaign, as always. Do you really think that citizenship doesn't realize such a rude and brazen strategy? Since they arrived at the Government they have questioned the possibility of amending the current Abortion Act and have done so with changing principles, without rigor, without depth, saying one thing and the opposite, they have been moving their positions to the detriment of their own electoral need. They have been playing with the threat to sexual and reproductive rights throughout the legislature, putting into tension the wishes of the social majority that defends that it is women who decide about their motherhood, in front of a minority who claim to be deprived of that right. They began with Gallardón presenting the amendment of the law as a question of morality and principles to the dictate of the Episcopal Conference. They wanted to distribute the women - remember? - certificates of authenticity, because, according to Gallardón, what made us truly authentic was motherhood. They wanted Spain to go back thirty years and they didn't get it, they didn't get it because society stopped them. [[Applauds]] It was necessary to organize the freedom train for them to find out, a train that went ahead to the Minister of Justice and also the law introduced by the Rajoy government. Then, the modification of abortion became a hot potato that no one in the government wanted, neither Minister Catalá nor Minister Alonso, and has ended up being a partial modification, presented by the parliamentary group, which tries to take away the right to decide, responsibly and freely, on motherhood to the younger women and is especially harmful to the most vulnerable, which seems like a scambalache to try to please everyone thinking that, on the one hand, the most conservative sectors are already charging for their piece and, on the other hand, that, like young women who abort, their suffering, unprotected and rights matter less. Well, I assure you, we do care and care a lot. Let's get things straight. By withdrawing the Gallardón law, do they mean that, except in consent for girls aged sixteen and seventeen, they agree with the 2010 law? [[A Member of Parliament: Come on, come on!]] If so, tell the most conservative sectors of your party and the Episcopal Conference and, as a result, desist from the recourse of unconstitutionality. [[Applauds]] Of the full constitutionality of the law there is virtually no doubt about any group in the House. There is no doubt that the citizenry, which supports it mostly, and neither does the Council of State, which unanimously endorsed the favourable report of Herrero de Miñon, one of the parents of the Constitution. You have an absolute majority, you could have changed the law, but, in the face of the great social response, you have stopped in the appeal you brought before the Constitutional Court. In essence, they lack the courage to define themselves before the majority of society and the most conservative sectors of their own party. Today, they seek to repeal article 13 in its paragraph 4 of the current law, the article which states that 16- and 17-year-olds may voluntarily terminate their pregnancy without informing their parents when they are in a situation of: certain danger of domestic violence, threats, coercion, ill-treatment, or a situation of uprooting or helplessness. You call - in what is an exercise in misrepresentation of concepts - strengthening protection for example that a young woman mistreated by her father has to ask permission to interrupt her pregnancy precisely from her abusive father. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I would like you to answer, for whom is this law? Who did you think of when you brought her to this House? What's your goal? What do you want to protect? Young women, no, of course not. [[Several honourable Members say words that are not perceived]] Quite the opposite. You bring a law between the sword and the wall to vulnerable young women. You will get a 16-year-old girl who lives in the worst family situations, with violent parents or without any kind of family support, helpless or uprooted, in the face of an unwanted pregnancy, to have recourse, in order to be able to abort, to those parents who do not exist or who mistreat her. Can you imagine their suffering, with no family supporting them, with an unwanted pregnancy and looking for risk formulas to abort? [[A honourable Member: No!]] They should worry about them. And why can't they count on their parents instead of blaming them and making things harder for them? Because if that young woman decides to interrupt her pregnancy, nothing, not even her regressive law, will stop her. [[Applauds]] Restrictive laws do not reduce the number of abortions, make them invisible and put women's lives at risk. That way they won't be able to reduce the number of abortions. The number of legal and safe abortions will decrease. Or, tell me: how are they going to avoid trafficking in abortion drugs or cruel practices? How are you going to avoid travelling to any European country in our environment? Are you really satisfied with putting younger women in this dangerous situation? The approach you propose is exactly the opposite of the recommendations of the international institutions. Those countries that have more restrictive laws on abortion are also those that eliminate sex education from classrooms and contraceptive methods from their public health offerings and also put barriers on minors to access them. That's what you've done: you've eliminated sex education, you've removed state-of-the-art contraceptives from the public health system, and now you want to force 16- and 17-year-old girls who are in vulnerable and unprotected situations to face an insurmountable barrier. For these young women, abortion is a consequence of an unwanted pregnancy and that should be their concern: to work in the prevention of unwanted pregnancies. What is necessary, ladies and gentlemen - and it seems that Minister Alonso does not understand - is to develop the whole first part of the law, which refers to sex education and prevention, not punishing and persecuting young women. The Government, the laws of this Parliament have an obligation to protect young women, because an early and unwanted pregnancy has lifelong consequences. It conditions the present and the future, has physical, personal, emotional, economic, professional consequences; it has consequences for women's life and health. With more restrictions they will not be able to lower abortion rates, achieve more suffering; and with less prevention, education and access to contraceptive methods they will achieve more risk to health and more unwanted pregnancies. The World Health Organization clearly states this in its guide to safe abortion: Policies must be geared towards respecting, protecting and fulfilling women's rights to achieve positive health outcomes. An enabling regulatory and political environment is required to ensure that every woman has easy access to good quality abortion services. Members of the PP, moreover, the vital situation in which you want to place young women is paradoxical at least. With all the government's legal reforms at the moment, we find that a 16-year-old girl can undergo or refuse any treatment to operate at an open heart or chemotherapy, for example. You can work and pay taxes. You can give your consent to have sex. You can get married. In good logic, a 16 - year - old girl should be able to continue to decide whether or not she wants to be a mother. Why don't you take it? Remove this incoherent and harmful reform at once. After five years of law enforcement, there are no grounds for alarm or retreat, only their electoral calculations. The current Abortion Act is a good law because it fulfils the goal of reducing unwanted pregnancies. That should be the target pursued. In 2010, legislation was enacted to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and, therefore, to reduce the number of abortions, not to criminalize women and rob them of their right to decide on their motherhood. In 2013, the last year of which we have official figures, the lowest abortion rate in the last seven years has been recorded. Especially among young women under the age of 30, it has declined. They know the data because we have already told them many times in this House. In 2014, according to the study carried out by the clinics, 0.4% of the total number of women who aborted were unable to inform their parents for the reasons stated by the law, i.e. those young women who could not have their families. I tell you again, we are going to vote against this reform and we are going to do everything in our power to prevent the law from being changed. They have an absolute majority, but they do not have a social majority. It is not by chance that four amendments are tabled in their entirety. Four amendments in all mean many wills contrary to this reform. Rectify, renounce to leave young women in defense. Give them up for unsafe abortions that will have an impact on their health and their lives. Ladies and gentlemen - if you want to take care of me and, if not, I also tell you - history does not go back as far as the PP wishes. They've been trying to scare us all through the legislature, but we're not afraid. If they push us into the tunnel of time, we'll find the exit. If you dare to give the last blow to women's rights, do not hesitate that the socialists will change it. We'll do it soon, when we're in government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, women's lives and health are worth more than a handful of votes. [[The President took the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Monton. Mr Agirretxea has the floor in the first place in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate originates from the proposal for a law of the People's Party which, with the vote against the opposition as a whole, was taken into consideration a proposal for a law amending the current Law of 2/2010 on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy, a proposal for a law with an exclusive amendment in two articles of that Law, which is currently in force, dedicated to children under the age of sixteen and seventeen years and which dealt with the ability to decide on the voluntary termination of their pregnancy. The topic was consent and information; consent to be able to interrupt their pregnancy and the information to be given at least to one of the parents, as the law says, and, if it could be shown that there are dramatic situations, obviating that information, something we agreed upon after much debate at the time. My group, in the debate we had here on this subject, has already opposed this amendment and continues to do so. We therefore make it clear that we are against the amendment proposed by the People's Party, but today we are in a full debate. We have had the intervention of the four amending groups, which have obviously tabled the amendment as a whole, and some will wonder why we, being against it, have not tabled the amendment as a whole. For a simple reason, because our alternative is the law in force, and, as you know, we could not ask for a return, because, as a proposal for a law, we had to present alternative text, and, I repeat, our alternative text is the law in force. It seemed to us practical, useful or common sense not to table an amendment in its entirety saying that our amendment is the law in force. The disappearance of the two amendments tabled by the People's Party is what we would present at the stage of partial amendments, which is what we thought we would do at the next stage. The truth is that by having five more minutes in this rostrum and appearing in the newspaper as amenders, even with the modification of a word, we will not be more consistent or firmer in our conviction. We must therefore make it clear that we have not tabled an amendment to the whole, we are against it, our alternative text is the law in force. Others have done so, and all due respect to the groups that have done so. We haven't introduced her. At the amendment stage, I hope that the People's Party will also continue to maintain the same approach and will not put other amendments that we do not know about at present at the amendment stage. We do point out to you that our amendments at the amendment stage will be to delete the two articles that the People's Party has tabled as an amendment to the law. There is even another weighty reason that is important to us and that has served as a central justification for not presenting alternative text, regardless of rejecting the modification of the People's Party. All the parties, all the political groups have maximums, we have ideals and also amendments that were not adopted in the previous legislature when the law was debated and passed, but it gave priority to consensus by giving in and agreeing on all sides and winning all. We continue to think that we did well, that it cost, but that thanks to that agreement a text more strengthened and more balanced than any other possible if it had not been endowed with political balance. If some political parties had not participated in that text, this law would now have another configuration, but I think it is important to accept what each one gave up, which brought each one and the confidence that we all made a fair and balanced law, both politically and ideologically, but above all legally and healthily. That is why we have abstained from presenting our own text, because we believe that it is the text that exists, which belongs to all. Each group has spoken of rights, etc., and it seems to me totally respectable, because that is so, but there is one element that is unifying in this law that is in force, which is article 12, when it says that access to voluntary termination of pregnancy is guaranteed under the conditions set out in this law. It is a guaranteed law, which I believe is the basic and fundamental of this law and which is not worth changing at this time. Therefore, why has the People's Party modified only one section? The People's Party, as has been said here, has brought an appeal for unconstitutionality to the law in force. The Constitutional has not yet spoken, we would like it to speak, but apart from a political manoeuvre that I have already denounced at the time and that I think I have to continue to do so. If he is so confident of the Constitution, why have he not waited for its resolution, for its pronouncement, and not to present, not one, but, let us not forget, he also had another bill? We sincerely believe that the People's Party, even with great havoc and exhortations about everything that was going to change in the electoral campaign, has not dared to change the existing law. Moreover, I doubt, apart from the amendment he has proposed, that he wants to change the existing law. I'm saying it based on data and facts. He's had four years to do it, and he hasn't. The first in-depth attempt was taken with the minister as a tropical tsunami and no one else knew about him or his project. The People's Party has not yet explained to us why it did not defend this project. We do not know whether you believe in that project or do not believe, whether it is only in this modification that you believe in, whether it is in the current law or what you believe in, apart from the calculations you can do at every moment. I believe that this is a decoy debate, a consequence of a change to get out of the way, with a very low consistency and responding to an electoral promise to which, in some way, before the end of the legislature, we had to respond. Bertrand Russell said that even if the truth is inconvenient, one must be honest, because it is more inconvenient when it comes to hiding it. I think you should apply Russell's maximum, which some of this knew. As I said in the debate under consideration, there is a qualitative leap and it is to be welcomed, gentlemen of the People's Party. There is a qualitative leap that makes substantial progress in the positions of the People's Party or at least that's what they're staging. As long as you do not deny it, it is so, because you no longer question whether in the Spanish State you can abort or not; what you question is who can abort, at what age you can abort or not, but you have not questioned in this amendment whether in the Spanish State, with legal and health guarantees, within a period of time, you can abort or not. The People's Party therefore accepts the established consensus and the cornerstone of the current law, which is that. At the time, five years ago, I was talking about crossing the river. For it seems that you have crossed the river, because, although we understand that the distance or disagreement is greater, we cannot forget one of the major reasons that makes the current law a valid law, and that after the application of this law there have been no more abortions and those that have been abortions with legal certainty and with health security and guaranteed by the law and by the issues raised by the law, and, more importantly, only 3.6% of these abortions have been of minors and of all of them - it has been said many times - only 0.44% have done so without informing or without consent. When you objected or argued to the need for this amendment, you referred to a question in the Civil Code: the obligation of parents to ensure the health, physical integrity and protection of their minor children. Obviously, we do not question it at any time, but you have turned to the meaning that the Civil Code gives to that protection. When we wrote that article, which allowed some minors, because of their family situation, not to be obliged to report or not to need consent, do you think that we were thinking of families who have a healthy, healthy and affective relationship in their environment? No, no, You know that. We were thinking precisely of those families who have problems even of domestic violence, who have problems of uprooting, who have problems of relationship, who may even have problems of health within the family itself, sexual health, and rape even. So let's be honest, let's know what we're talking about. There are daughters who cannot be accompanied by their parents at that tragic time of their life.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u129	Mr. Agirretxea, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u130	I'm done, Mr. President. Five years ago in the debate we were saying from this rostrum: there is nothing more wonderful than a desired motherhood. I ask you the question: do you think that with this modification you will make the pregnancies of young women who do not want to be mothers wonderful? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a debate or rather a pseudo-debate that has become recurrent and is rather regrettable because it affects a basic issue that has to do with people's conscience, public morals and the always conflicting relationship between laws, legislation, politics and morals. And, as we said the previous time, what has seemed to us from the very beginning very critical of how the Government and the People's Party have been acting in this field is that, despite their criticisms to others, specifically in this case to the previous Government of Rodríguez Zapatero and the PSOE, they have done the same, that it is coming here with party proposals that go far beyond and much more here always remain in barren ground for an issue that demands to be treated seriously, seriously from some premises; for example, the premise that we must separate democratic legislation, politics, from particular morality, because what brings the People's Party back again is that, a text from a point of view of a particularist morality and with an electoral calculation, and I agree in this with what some previous speaker has said. My group does not see it anywhere, and has not seen it throughout this debate, which is also flawed, a will to improve the current law, but a will to bring back to the ground of partisan confrontation a question as sensitive as this one of how to regulate the right to abortion. It is also true that it is perhaps to be congratulated that there is no longer a question of whether or not there should be a decriminalization of the termination of pregnancy, but merely the conditions under which it must take place. But, having said that, the way in which the debate is conducted has led us to a situation that we really have to reject, but beyond all that, completely. You have made a filibuster maneuver so that it is the People's Group and not the Government that uses the legislative initiative in this area on the basis of a bill that withdrew the Government without any explanation and in passing withdrew the minister; but, of course, this obliges the groups, including mine, to submit alternative texts to theirs because it does not allow the return. And that already brings us to the ground that we want to avoid, we do not want a party debate on the decriminalization of abortion, we want an improvement and a deepening of the law on the basis of the widest possible social consensus, and clear political. That means that in the law we should move forward or try to improve it in two ways, we have said it many times: firstly, that it is a law of pure deadlines, in which there is maximum freedom for the pregnant woman, and at the same time maximum legal certainty, both for the health personnel involved in the interruption and even when the deadlines for the unborn are over. We also think that the deadlines, which can be discussed if it is twenty-two weeks as proposed by Esquerra or other groups, is something that should justly be in that goal of improving the law and also the possibility of exceptions. But here there is none of this, it is proposed to withdraw some articles from the current law, thus disarticulating if there is a real debate here and, therefore, no political debate on the issue, but a filibustering maneuver. Nor can we vote on the amendments to the alternative text that have been tabled because if we had an alternative text that, as I said, we did not share as a law reform strategy, we would have presented our own. We are therefore going to have to abstain, and we blame the Group of the European People's Party for bringing the debate to this point without a way out on the basis of purely party interests. There are many things that we think are about to discuss on the issue of reproductive rights, and not just the current Abortion Act, for example, our group does not understand why the Socialist Group does not share the need to legislate in favour of surrogate pregnancy, which would also extend reproductive rights to homosexual couples and so on, which we believe would be progressive and would improve the current legislative landscape, and not engage in a certile way in which my law was perfect, or in the case of the People's Group, in which its law was tremendously flawed and we are going to remove a couple of articles from it. In short, as long as there is no effort to separate political and moral ethics from a party of public morality and it is not yet understood that in a progressive democracy what needs to be done is to improve in favour of freedom and legal certainty, which does not do the proposal of the People's Group, we cannot support it in any way. So in this case our vote will be abstaining and, when the law is dealt with, we will, of course, table any amendments that we consider relevant to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Tarruella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. As is already traditional in this House, I will speak on behalf of the members of the Catalan Democratic Union, as they know that there is freedom of vote within the parliamentary group. As you will understand, as we have already expressed ourselves in this regard in the consideration of this proposal for a law, the Democratic Union of Catalonia has not tabled an amendment in its entirety and we will also vote against the amendments that have been tabled. As you will understand, we will vote against on a matter of coherence and conviction. Consistency, because since Unió Democrática de Catalunya we have already opposed the current law for some aspects that we did not like, and a very important point for us was that the law should include the authorization of parents for children under sixteen years of age in case of termination of pregnancy. I am convinced that no woman interrupts her pregnancy for pleasure, and I believe that at that time it is when she most needs to be accompanied, it is when she most needs support from her family, especially if she is a 16- or 17-year-old woman. I repeat this again, for this reason, because of this coherence and because of this conviction that we have colleagues from the Democratic Union, we are going to vote against these amendments as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that my party, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, is a little more varied and that every member of the party is free to vote. I will therefore try to focus my presentation on those points of consensus and connection to which we have reached among all, specifically speaking on the subject of today's debate, which we believe is nothing other than taking account of the amendments tabled by four parliamentary groups in their entirety. In this regard, we want to tell you that, in its day, the deputies of Democratic Convergence, in considering the bill amending the 2010 Act, we reached a point of connection and agreed that it was an unnecessary amendment. We believe that the draft law that was brought to us by the Government at the time was unnecessary, that its amendment was unnecessary, because the current law had brought about a reduction in the number of abortions and a great deal of improvement in prevention, education, sexual and reproductive health. In the end, this decrease in the number of abortions, together with better treatment of information in young people and women, made the modification unnecessary and, from this point of view, we each exercise our freedom to vote. In view of the amendments to the whole of two parliamentary groups, namely the one tabled by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and the one tabled by La Izquierda Plural, today we will exercise our freedom of vote in the same direction, in line with what each of us voted for at the time, because this unnecessary amendment that served us to find this basis of consensus in the Government's draft law now serves us for this amendment that both proposing groups put forward. It is unnecessary to amend the law in force. For this reason, we shall exercise our freedom of vote in accordance with and congruence in the line in which we did so on the previous occasion. Therefore, and following the same argument, with regard to the amendments to the whole presented to us by the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which we believe do not substantially amend or seek to amend the law in force, we will also vote accordingly, because this amendment is unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, once I have explained the position of the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Catalonian Democratic Convergence, I would like to speak to you as a woman about what I hope will result from the parliamentary process of improving this law. As a woman, I hope you will continue to allow me to exercise my rights and freedoms in full and free, from my own ethics or morals, without anyone being able to impose on me any other ethics or morals that are intended to be superior or better than mine. I would also like to see a law and a text that would improve prevention, that would allow education to abound, that would allow the best accompaniment of young women who do not want to continue with their pregnancy, with clinical resources, with psychological resources, and that would eventually continue to reduce the number of abortions that are performed as a result of unwanted pregnancies. As a woman I aspire to the processing of this law. I hope that we will be able to reach a consensus and that no one can impose a moral above the others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u138	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we see today in the House the four amendments tabled by different groups to the proposal for an organic law submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group to restore to parents or guardians the capacity to advise their 16- and 17-year-old teenage daughters on whether to continue with their pregnancy or interrupt it, an issue that we have already discussed last April when this proposal was taken into consideration. At the time, we have already shown that this is a commitment by the Government and the People's Party to Spanish society, in complete disagreement with the decision taken by the Government of President Rodríguez Zapatero in 2010 to allow minors to make that decision without the consent or even the knowledge of their families, which at a time like this we believe should be at their side to fulfil the constitutional mandate to ensure that they are educated and cared for. Not only was the People's Parliamentary Group and a very important part of society concerned about the drift that this fundamental issue dragged into the hands of the socialist government, but, according to a survey published by the newspaper El País in June 2009, 56% of the PSOE voters were opposed to abortions by 16- and 17-year-olds without the support of their parents or guardians. We also explain in your day what are the reasons why we propose the removal of the legal anomaly that this situation entails. First of all, because Organic Law 2/2010, Zapatero Law, starts from the principle that girls are the majority who have a bad relationship with their parents, something that, obviously, can happen in some cases, fortunately very few, but that we refuse to think that this is the general rule to which this law owes and wants to provide solutions. Because of this alleged bad relationship, it is also assumed that teenagers will not ask their relatives for advice on what they should do in the case of a pregnancy, and it is assumed, once again, that they will go to a clandestine channel to abort, so, in order to prevent the law from being supposedly discontinued, it is amended. That is, as we said at the time, the exception is made generality. Deepening a little further in this reflection, the kind of relationship between parents and teenage daughters that lets the legislation in force translude does not coincide fortunately with the usual one in Spanish society. The father, mother or guardian are, for Organic Law 2/2010, the law of the socialist government, a problem; an interference in the will of the minor, who, again, the legislator presupposes a commitment to interrupt his pregnancy. On the other hand, it does not assume as a general and majority rule the fluid relationship, the loving relationship that, as a general rule, the daughters have with their parents in Spain. The Organic Law 2/2010, which repeatedly affects the need for training and information, especially among the younger people, however, allows adolescents to be deprived of the advice and advice of those who are usually closest to them, that of their parents, withdrawing from them, in addition, the possibility of exercising their constitutional parental authority, as they have the right and duty - let us not forget - to educate their children, to care for them and to provide them with training and sustenance. In this task, at such an important time in the lives of their daughters, the 2010 law theoretically and legally replaces the role of parents by the role of the State. It is also arbitrary why the election of only those under the age of sixteen and seventeen years, obviating, for example, that there could be children under fifteen years of age who are in the same situation of hypothetical conflict with their parents. It is clear that what the law intends here is to equate abortion with any other surgery, which is absolutely unacceptable. For a mature person, at the age of sixteen it is possible to calibrate the scope of a medical operation or treatment, but to assume that he is able to assess the consequences of an abortion implies attributing to him a maturity that is not usually at that age. Ladies and gentlemen, only Spain, together with the Czech Republic, throughout the European Union, allows abortion of minors without the consent of their parents or guardians... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u139	Excuse me, Congresswoman. Please be silent to listen to Mrs González Vázquez. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u140	Thank you, President. He said that only Spain, together with the Czech Republic, throughout the European Union, allows abortion of minors without the consent of their parents or guardians. In France, for example, minors must be accompanied by their mother, father or adult of their confidence, but they cannot come alone or make such an important decision without the support of an adult in their environment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Esquerra Republicana, Compromís, Bloc Nacionalista Galego, La Izquierda Plural, and the rest of the groups that do not support this bill, if you yourself have used in your argument, over and over again, the fact that the majority of adolescents of sixteen and seventeen years old abort with the knowledge of their parents who accompany them during the process - given that we know for the information provided by the clinics where the interruption of pregnancy is carried out and that you yourselves, in your interventions, have evaluated in a moment 0.4% of abortions performed in children under sixteen and seventeen years old - why do you not want to be legislated according to that reality, that is, of the remaining 99.3 % of minors? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Why don't they assume that they were confused when they considered that most of these teenagers would abort behind the backs of their parents? Why do you not allow those exceptional cases, which you yourselves recognize as exceptional, to be governed by the exceptions that our Civil Code establishes and contemplates? You should reflect on the logic of that premise, the starting point of which you yourselves accept, use and engage over and over again in the debate on this issue. [[Mrs Álvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u141	Mrs. Alvarez, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u142	Finally, I will talk about the amendments that have been tabled in their entirety. In particular, four have been presented: the Republican Left, the Galego Nationalist Block, the Plural Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, each of them distinct. But if something draws attention is the emphasis that is made, both from La Izquierda Plural and from Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya to include - and this is especially important - in article 1 the expression - and I quote textually -: The right of women to the voluntary termination of pregnancy. This specific inclusion is clear proof that so far in our legislation that right does not exist. Moreover, Organic Law 2/2010 was extremely careful when referring to this point, without ever mentioning it explicitly and incorporated expressions such as - and I quote - the guarantee of access to voluntary termination of pregnancy - a reference mentioned by the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party - the capacity of termination of pregnancy, the decision of the woman on intervention, but at no time is articulated as a woman's right, possibly to avoid conflict with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, abortion in our system would be a women's right if the amendments of the Republican Left and the Plural Left, which is not the case, were to succeed. Therefore, abortion is not in our legal system a women's right. I will focus on the specific aspects of two of the amendments to the whole with alternative text. Firstly, the amendment by Esquerra Republicana, which we can call absolute nonsense, establishing, for example, a period of twenty-two weeks for the voluntary termination of pregnancy, eliminating mandatory medical reports, eliminating deadlines in cases of risk to the life of the mother or serious anomaly in the foetus, eliminating clinical committees and calling it all - and I quote textually - improving the rights of the law. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in Norway, Sweden or the Netherlands, for putting only three examples of countries with legislation that you usually bring to the fore as a model, from the eighteenth week onwards, abortion can only be carried out in case of serious danger to the health of the mother or the foetus. In addition, this amendment to the whole establishes the obligation to include in all stages of the education system - I understand, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, which would therefore also include the education of children from zero to three years or from three to five years - an education in affective and reproductive sexual health, including knowledge of the right to abortion. I think it obvious any reference to what this mandate implies, but I would like to remind you that the court's judgment... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u143	I'm sorry, Mrs. González. Please, Mrs. González Vázquez is finishing. Listen to her.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u144	I would like to remind you that the European Court of Human Rights, after its judgment in Kjeldsen, Madsen and Pedersen v. Denmark of 7 December 1976, provides clear guidelines as to the content which may be included in education in this field and its necessary objectivity, with an implicit limit as to the age at which it may be established as compulsory, an age at which pupils can differentiate between training and information. Otherwise, the transmission of information, without the student having the capacity to prosecute it responsibly, can be training in a certain view of the world, which the court considers unacceptable. I would also like to devote just one minute to the amendment to the whole of the Socialist Group, because of the perplexity caused by its reading. It would seem that the Socialist Group which has vigorously defended the whole of the current Abortion Act - its law - should strongly support it and be consistent with that defence by reintegrating it in its terms, as did the Galego Nationalist Block, or at least amend the two articles of the majority group's proposed law. Well, it's not like that. The Socialist Group presents a statement of reasons in which it finds to the parliamentary group a non-existent inconsistency having amended in two different laws article 9.4 of the Basic Law regulating the autonomy of the patient...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u145	Madam Member, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u146	I'm done. I'm done. I would like to tell you that there is no inconsistency in this matter and that it is amended in two different ways and the only thing that will be done is to change the numbering. You must also know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is surprising that in the wording of your amendment to the whole by means of an alternative text and a single article you do not refer to the text of your law, but only to the amendment of Law 41/2002. This is a genuine incomprehensible and confusing legal burden, in which it is not clear whether you wish to return to the original text currently in force, or to withdraw article 13. I'm done, President. Neither laws nor rules, as we know well, have an absolute character. Its value lies in its greater or lesser social utility, in its acceptance, in its ability to respond to the demands of a majority of the citizenry and in the satisfaction of it. The reform that we propose is already legitimized by the conviction that resides in that majority of people,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u147	You have to finish, honourable Member; you can't go on. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u148	I'm done. [[Rumors]] ... parents who consider it necessary, and we want to defend and realize it through our simple, sincere and honest arguments, without going into other matters, as Mr Baldoví, for example, has done. What brings us here today is the proposal of law and not other topics or other behaviors, because of that we would have much to talk about in the light of the unfortunate spectacle that is being given, for example, by Mr Baldoví's party in the Valencian Community. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u149	Mrs González Vázquez, we cannot talk about more; you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u151	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Phil Hogan, who for the second time is coming to Spain to meet and speak with our Members of the Committee on Agriculture, is with us in the gallery. We welcome you and wish you a happy stay. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] We vote in two minutes. [[Pause]] I want to warn you that there are quite a few votes. The vote has been reduced to ten seconds and I shall simply say that the amendments have been adopted or rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u152	We begin the voting. Motion by The Plural Left on the Government's position on the humanitarian tragedy taking place in the Mediterranean, the European Union's proposals on asylum policy and the Government's response to these proposals. The vote is divided by points. I tell the spokespersons to check because she's a little confused. Firstly, the vote on points 1 to 4 on asylum. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 134 against 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u153	They're rejected. Vote on points 1 to 4 on migration policy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 134 against 178 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u154	They're rejected. Vote on points 1 and 2 on civil and political rights. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 21 against, 274 abstentions 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u155	They're rejected. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT TO RENEW and update the agreement on a code of conduct in relation to 'TRANSFUGUISM'. [[File number 173/000218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u156	Motion by the Progressive Union and Democracy on the steps the Government intends to take to renew and update the agreement on a code of conduct on transfuguism. There is an amendment from the Socialist Group which has been incorporated. Under those conditions, we proceed to vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour 111 against 177; abstentions 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u157	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u158	Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of excellent Members. There is a separate vote on the opinion. Firstly, the vote on the opinion on Mr Agustín Conde Bajén. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 176 against 116; abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u159	It was adopted. Voting on the remainder of the opinion of the Staff Regulations Commission. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 295 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u160	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u161	Senate amendments. Draft law on the granting of Spanish nationality to Sephardics originating in Spain who justify such a condition and their special connection with Spain, amending article 23 of the Civil Code and regulating the procedure for the acquisition of Spanish nationality by residence. Vote on the amendments. Firstly, amendments to the title, the preamble, the fourth final provision and the sixth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 292 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u162	They're approved. Amendments to Article 1(5) as regards the final paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 191 against, 24 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u163	They're approved. Remaining amendments to Article 1(5). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 180 against, 124 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u164	They're approved. Amendments to the second additional provision relating to the heading. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 198 against, 105 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u165	They're approved. Amendments to the second additional provision as regards paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 183 against, 121 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u166	They're approved. Amendments to the second additional provision as regards paragraph 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour 183 against 124 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u167	They're approved. Amendments to the fourth additional provision and the single transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 308 against, 1 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u168	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 298 against, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u169	They're approved. - DRAFT REFORM LAW OF THE HYPOTECARY LAW APPROVED BY THE DECORD OF 8 FEBRUARY 1946 AND THE REFUND TEXT OF THE IMMOVABLE CATASTRAL LAW, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE Decree 1/2004 OF 5 MARCH. [[File number 121/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u170	Draft law on the reform of the Mortgage Act adopted by Decree of 8 February 1946 and the consolidated text of the Land Disaster Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2004 of 5 March. Firstly, the vote on the amendments to the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 201 against, 2 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u171	They're approved. Amendments to the first article.six. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 297 against, 1 abstention, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u172	They're approved. Amendments to Article 1.nine. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 201 against, 97 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u173	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u174	Senate amendments to the draft law on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies. We are going to vote in bloc on all the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 197 against, 1 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u175	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u176	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. We started with the draft Organic Law of the Military Penal Code. Firstly, amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Tardà. Amendments 118 and 121. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 31 against, 272 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u177	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 35 against, 169 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u178	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Group PNV. Firstly, Amendment 109. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 35 against, 271 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u179	It's rejected. Amendment 115. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 128 against, 180 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u180	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 35 against, 178 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u181	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendments Nos. 39, 41, 42, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57, 66 and 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour 128 against 179 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u182	They're rejected. Amendment 45. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour 32 against 274.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u183	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 33 against, 178 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u184	They're rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Amendments 4, 13 and 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 33 against, 273 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u185	They're rejected. Amendments 18, 20, 21, 29 and 33. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 129 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u186	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 35 against, 180 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u187	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. Amendment 82. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 35 against, 273 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u188	It's rejected. Amendments 87, 89, 98 and 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 129 against 180; abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u189	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 35 against, 179 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u190	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Socialist Group'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 127 against, 180 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u191	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. Firstly, the vote on the opinion on the explanatory memorandum. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 189 against 11 abstentions 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u192	It was adopted. Vote on the opinion on Rule 1.5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 183 against 125 abstentions 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u193	It was adopted. Vote on the remainder of the opinion, with the technical correction distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 275 against, 17 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u194	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u195	We will carry out the overall vote on the draft Organic Law of the Military Penal Code. A telematic vote has been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310, plus one telematic vote, 311; in favour, 180 plus one telematic vote, 181; against, 18; abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u196	The draft law was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u197	Following the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, we voted on the bill to amend the Criminal Procedure Act to speed up criminal justice and strengthen procedural guarantees. Firstly, the vote on the amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendment 25. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 124 against, 179 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u198	It's rejected. Remaining amendments to the PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 32 against, 176 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u199	They're rejected. Amendment 52 by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 18 against, 180 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u200	It's rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Firstly, Amendments Nos 5 and 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 14 against, 184 abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u201	They're rejected. Amendments 7 and 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 29 against, 180 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u202	They're rejected. Amendment 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 112 against, 179 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u203	It's rejected. Amendments 13 to 16 and 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 124 against, 178 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u204	They're rejected. Amendments 17 and 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 15 against, 275 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u205	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 29 against, 274 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u206	They're rejected. Amendments by the Catalan Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 27, 29 and 35. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 30 against, 180 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u207	They're rejected. Amendments 28, 31 and 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 114 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u208	They're rejected. Amendment 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 30 against, 273 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u209	It's rejected. Amendment 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 21 against, 276 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u210	It's rejected. Amendment 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u211	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments Nos 39, 41 and 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 111 against, 180 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u212	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour 129 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u213	They're rejected. Transactional amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group to Amendment 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 185 against, 105 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u214	It's approved. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 179 against, 116 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u215	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u216	Amendments to the draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act for the strengthening of procedural guarantees and the regulation of technological research measures. Firstly, Mr Urbina's amendment from the Joint Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THEIR AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 17 against, 280 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u217	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Amendment 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour 125 against 186.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u218	It's rejected. Remaining amendments to the PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 31 against, 267 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u219	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendment 94. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 5 against, 184 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u220	It's rejected. Amendment 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 5 against, 180 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u221	It's rejected. Amendment 96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 5 against, 273 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u222	It's rejected. Amendments 97 and 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 102 against, 179 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u223	They're rejected. Transactional amendment to amendment 98. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 294 against, 3 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u224	It's approved. Amendment 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 6 against, 180 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u225	It's rejected. Amendment 100. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 119 against, 180 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u226	It's rejected. Amendment 101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 5 against, 179 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u227	It's rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Amendments 8, 13 to 16, 20, 22, 24 to 26, 28, 30, 32 and 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 29 against, 274 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u228	They're rejected. Amendments 19, 23 and 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 129 against 179 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u229	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 27 against, 178 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u230	They're rejected. Amendments by the Catalan Group Firstly, Amendments 49, 51, 54, 59, 60, 69 and 70. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 124 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u231	They're rejected. Amendments 50 and 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 24 against 182, with 103 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u232	They're rejected. Amendments 56 and 63. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 114 against, 177 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u233	They're rejected. Amendments 55, 62, 65 and 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 34 against, 181 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u234	They're rejected. Amendment 58. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 36 against, 269 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u235	It's rejected. Amendments 61 and 66. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 24 against, 272 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u236	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 71 to 73, 76 to 79 and 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 114 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u237	They're rejected. Amendment 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 128 against, 180 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u238	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 129 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u239	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 176 against, 118 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u240	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u241	Overall vote on an organic bill, amending the Criminal Prosecution Act. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 315 plus 1 telematic vote, 316; in favour, 182 plus 1 telematic vote, 183; against, 112; abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u242	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u243	We shall now vote on the amendment to the full refund, to the draft law on the reform of the system for the assessment of the damage caused to persons in traffic accidents, which has been submitted by the Group of the Plural Left. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 1 telematic vote, 311; 11; 298 plus 1 telematic vote, 299; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u244	The amendment is rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u245	Proposed organic law to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. There are four amendments to the whole alternative text, which we will vote on successively, and in each of them a telematic vote has been cast. Amendment with alternative text tabled by Mrs Fernández Davila of the Mixed Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 315 plus 1 telematic vote, 316; in favour, 120; against, 185 plus 1 telematic vote, 186; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u246	It's rejected. Amendment to the whole with alternative text to this same bill submitted by Mr Tardà. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 315 plus 1 telematic vote, 316; in favour, 16; against, 190 plus 1 telematic vote, 191; abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u247	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text to this bill submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 313 plus one telematic vote, 314; in favour, 16; against, 189 plus one telematic vote, 190; abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u248	It's rejected. Amendment to the whole with alternative text to this same bill submitted by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 314 plus 1 telematic vote, 315; in favour, 120; against, 184 plus 1 telematic vote, 185; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-11-CD150611.u249	It's rejected. The meeting rose. It was six and five minutes in the afternoon.
