ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u1	In accordance with Rule 88(1) of the Rules of Procedure, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of item 25, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, on the measures to be taken by the Government to eradicate the increase in discrimination against women. Does the House remember that? [[Consent.]] It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u2	It takes into consideration the proposed organic law of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Socialist, and of Mr Salvador, Mrs Oramas and Mr Álvarez Sostres, of the Joint Group, amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, for the People's Group, Mr Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the fight against terrorism is, above all, the fight against reason in the face of unrighteousness, life in the face of death, justice and freedom in the face of the imposition of terror. It is, therefore, the effort to make the ethical principles on which the coexistence of a civilized society is based prevail against those who deny it. On this long and painful path that has taken us, in this historic process of combating terrorism in Spain, we have been able to see what are the best instruments to combat the irrational and unjustified violence of terror, the work of the Security Forces and Bodies, the performance of judges and courts, international cooperation and the unity of democratic forces; a unity, that of the political parties, which reflects the democratic firmness of Spanish society and which has become the pillar and strength of our rule of law in its fight against terrorism; a unity against terrorism that demands us to eliminate generously the partisan and partyist confrontation. And the gestation of this proposal of law, ladies and gentlemen, has been good proof of this, of how politics can be made by putting the general interest before any other; of how our differences can be assumed by thinking of the interests of our country. In this regard, and as you are well aware, the People's Parliamentary Group intends to approve permanent imprisonment, which can be reviewed as a maximum penalty in the reform of the Criminal Code, a penalty reserved for cases of extraordinary gravity, including certain aggravated forms of terrorism. There is no doubt that, despite the fact that the acceptance of the figure of the permanent prison is a majority in Spanish society, some groups in this House have shown their rejection of this penalty included in the Statute of the International Criminal Court, ratified by Spain in 2002 and therefore in force in our country. This is a punishment that exists in most countries of the European Union and that both the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the Council of State have come to consider fully constitutional. The reviewable permanent prison also enjoys the endorsement of the European Court of Human Rights, which has repeatedly stated that it should not be regarded as inhuman or degrading treatment and this sentence violates the European Convention on Human Rights. It was precisely last week that the European Court of Human Rights had the opportunity to issue a new judgement in this regard. In spite of this, we fully respect the Socialist Parliamentary Group's desire to demonstrate its opposition to the permanent reviewable prison and its firm decision to appeal the rule to the Constitutional Court. In any case, the introduction of the new penalty of permanent imprisonment, which can be reviewed in the Criminal Code, should not be the subject of our debate today, for a simple reason: this proposed law does not refer to permanent imprisonment, which cannot be reviewed since the maximum penalty of deprivation of liberty with which the Criminal Code punishes terrorist murder at any time will always apply to terrorist offences resulting from death. The discrepancy with regard to the reviewable permanent prison, for the sake of the necessary consensus, was assumed in a responsible manner by both the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That is why the 12 amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group to improve the fight against jihadist terrorism were withdrawn from the draft Organic Law on the Reform of the Criminal Code - currently in the process - in order to integrate them, within the framework of a large state pact, into a different legislative instrument, which is nothing other than the proposed law that we are debating today. From this perspective, the proposal for a law submitted in this act to our consideration has a profound significance for the Chamber itself and for the whole of Spanish society, because it is born as a result of an exercise of dialogue, mutual respect and renunciation of particular positions in order to reach a text of consensus. This is an initiative in which the dialectical government-opposition and the definition of legitimate but partisan or partisan positions have been set aside in order, on the contrary, to try to reach a common political space. That is why this proposal for a law, which was born thanks to a collective effort, is signed by five political forces, which represent 78% of this House and therefore represents the vast majority of Spanish society. And that, ladies and gentlemen, should mark a point of continuity in order to strengthen the cohesion of democrats in the defence of our freedoms, knowing that freedom has no electoral significance, no partisan scope, nor can it ever be synonymous with confrontation. Therefore, if we agree on the objectives, it seems logical that the parliamentary groups, rather than taking negative positions - and I am obviously not advancing the position of other groups - should make an effort to make this bill, which is a draft of this House, improved with input from all or the vast majority of the parliamentary groups. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has a clear message: there are no excuses for terrorism. We cannot be tolerant, not even neutral, of fanatical intolerance. In the face of fanaticism there is only unity; unity to take measures that enable us to combat terrorism as effectively as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the experience of the fight against terrorism in Spain has enabled us to have effective criminal legislation in response to terrorism by armed gangs, but this regulation does not apply equally effectively to jihadist terrorism, which is very different in nature, composition, scope and modalities. The new jihadist-cut terrorism is distinguished not only by its peculiar form of dissemination but also by having incorporated new forms of aggression consisting of modern instruments of capture, training and indoctrination in hatred, as well as by giving way to the phenomenon of individual terrorism. It is also characterized by the fact that the different groups or cells that make up it can become organized and act independently of each other, without a dome equipped with internal interconnection that allows access to it. All this poses serious difficulties in the investigation, prevention and prosecution work that should be addressed, especially when the new threat of fanatical terrorism has been joined by the intensification of its activity, as well as the intensification of the call for attacks in all regions of the world. Therefore, when the level of global threat of jihadist terror has increased, it is perfectly understandable that public opinion should express its concern about a situation like that which we are living in. It is therefore an obligation on our part to convey tranquillity to the public, but to convey tranquillity in the current context does not mean doing nothing, it means, as the recent resolutions of the United Nations Security Council point out, adapting our resources and legal instruments to improve the prevention, prosecution and punishment of these crimes. These are basically the reasons that justify the nature, meaning and scope of this initiative, convinced that our current criminal system is insufficient. So, ladies and gentlemen, some people's strident criticisms should not push us away from the need for essential changes if Spain, in the face of jihadist terrorism, is not at a disadvantage with other European democracies. At this point, they will allow me to highlight some fundamental aspects of the proposed new regulation from the proposal for a law. Specifically, I would like to refer to the criminalization of the conduct of new forms of terrorism, such as the usual access to certain content on the Internet and the possession of documents, as well as the phenomenon of displaced terrorist fighters and the figure of lone wolves. As you know, in the area of terrorism, it is well known that groups and organizations use the Internet not only to make themselves known by spreading their ideas but also to attract people to join their ranks and to train them in the management of military or combat techniques, as well as in the manufacture of explosives that will then be used in the commission of terrorist crimes. Social networks in this regard are effective means for both the dissemination of ideas and for recruitment. Already in the Council framework decision of November 2008 on combating terrorism, there are numerous references to the use of the Internet in the context of terrorism and the need to eradicate the conduct associated with it. It is therefore intended, with the new criminal figure provided for in article 575 of the Criminal Code, in terms similar to other criminal systems in our environment, to punish those who, in order to receive military indoctrination or training or techniques in explosives to commit terrorist offences, routinely access content aimed at encouraging or collaborating with terrorist groups or organizations. Those who access them in a timely manner, either out of curiosity or by study, are therefore excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, for an effective fight against the terrorist phenomenon there is no doubt that it is important to advance criminal persecution at the very moment when the desire to become a party or to collaborate with the terrorist network through the usual access to these contents is expressed. Similarly, along the lines of advancing the criminal persecution that I have just pointed out, article 575 of the Criminal Code punishes the acquisition or possession of documents that encourage the incorporation or collaboration with a terrorist organization or group. There is no need, therefore, for a terrorist attack to be carried out in order to initiate criminal charges, and the acquisition or possession of such documents is therefore punishable. Finally, and with the same philosophy of averting any terrorist-related act from the outset, the displacement of so-called foreign combatants to conflict zones is criminalized in order to integrate into terrorist organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, with these new criminal figures: access to certain Internet pages, possession of certain types of documents and transfer to terrorist-controlled areas, the ultimate aim is to punish those who wish to train themselves or to train themselves to commit terrorist crimes. This will allow the authorities to bring to justice, without waiting for the commission of attacks, the perpetrators of such acts. The reform of terrorist offences also disassociates the concept of terrorist from the terrorist organization or group, which will allow so-called lone wolves to be punished for these crimes. The current regulation punishes those who, acting in service or collaborating with terrorist organizations or groups, commit certain offences, and the existence of such links with terrorist groups or organizations is therefore necessary in order to be able to apply the criminal types. In the event that membership, service, or collaboration with an organization or criminal group is not accredited, the person conducting such conduct would not have committed a terrorist offence at present, without, of course, being convicted for the common crimes he or she had committed. Instead, with the proposed new regulation, it will be a terrorist who commits a terrorist offence, whether or not it belongs to a terrorist organization. The commission of an offence enumerated in the new article 573 will suffice: murder, murder, injury, etc., for any of the purposes described therein, such as subverting the constitutional order or seriously altering public peace, to punish the perpetrator as a terrorist without the need to link him to any group or organization. This new regulation, ladies and gentlemen, for which this wording gives them some suspicion, is in line with Community legislation, both with the definition of terrorism provided for in the 2001 common position and with the framework decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism. I'm done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are fulfilling a duty of democracy and justice, but we are also making a commitment to the future and to peace. That is why I would like to insist that the signatory groups, including the People's Parliamentary Group, invite the rest of the groups represented today in this House to join this agreement. We would like no one to be excluded, no one to take this opportunity to blame the political adversary, no group to oppose the excuse of terrorism, that the only opposition is that of all: our opposition to terrorism. And that is why we are ready to continue to dialogue, a dialogue that is not a sign of weakness but of strength, of security in our own convictions; a dialogue to add efforts as an act of political wisdom; a dialogue that Spanish society deserves, and especially the victims of terrorism and their families, because they are undoubtedly the ones who have given the most in favour of freedom, which is the same as in favour of democracy and peace. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Castillo. For the defense of the proposal of law and by the Socialist Group, I have the word don José Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am naturally speaking to defend on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we take into consideration the proposal for a law which we jointly sign with the People's Group and the representatives of the Canary Islands Coalition, the Union of the Navarro People and the Asturias Forum. As you know, it is the result of an initiative by Pedro Sánchez, the general secretary of my party, which, I must stress, was immediately accepted by the President of the Government. It is, in my view, an initiative that brings your cause of three facts that should be remembered. The first one has a specific date, on 7 January of the same year. What happened that day in Paris brought back to the heart of Europe the evidence of a danger that becomes everyday reality in many parts of the world. Without the need for details but with the emotion of memory, I can say that here, in this city, we know well what jihadist terrorism is capable of. The murders in Paris meant, as was immediately written, a frontal attack on the system of freedoms, an attack that also received an immediate response through three channels: political and citizen unity in the face of terror, a review of criminal, procedural and police efforts to combat the threat and maintenance of the system of democratic freedoms and guarantees of citizens, with special attention to radical, xenophobic and racist reactions. The second data is also dated 8 December 2000. That day, the Covenant on Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism was signed. It was also the result of an initiative of the Socialist Party, represented on that occasion by its then general secretary, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. It was, by date, a pact focused on the search for a unitary response to ETA. I will not talk about the misunderstandings that it generated in some political groups or about the difficulties that it encountered in its implementation and respect, but I will say that then, as always, the Socialist Party took it seriously, so much so that from the opposition it undertook to co-responsibility for the anti-terrorist policy to the point that it was able to propose acceptance of an essential principle: the leadership of the anti-terrorist struggle is the responsibility of the Government. We understand this from the opposition and also more strongly defend it from the Government, and the results have been seen a few years ago. The third data has more diffused origins, but it was also realized on a date, last December 10. On that day the House Bulletin published the amendments tabled to the draft Organic Law on Reform of the Criminal Code, which appeared somewhat unexpectedly in amendments 874 to 885 - if I have not taken a wrong note - of the People's Group, which implied an in-depth reform of the articles of the Code intended for it. I do not want to stop at them because, as a result of the joint work that we have carried out during the last weeks of January, they are already history, but I do have to say two things. The first, which did not respond to what the Covenant on Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism required because they had not been presented in accordance with the procedure envisaged therein, and the pacts, including the political ones, were to be fulfilled. We've finally done it. The second, that if the agreement to which this proposal which we are debating responds could not have been reached, it is foreseeable that it would have been imposed on its own terms and then criminal policy against terrorism would not be the result of consensus, because the Socialist Group could not share the terms in which the amendments were formulated and would therefore have voted against them. There will be those who are comfortable leaving all responsibility for terrorism in the hands of the Government, of the Government as it may be, but we are not. There have been those who have come to say this week that the unity of the parties against terrorism is a historical tradition, but that in the new times, when terrorism has gone from a problem for 42% of citizens to a concern of only 1%, this unity is no longer necessary, nor is it necessary to take new measures against terrorists. We do not share this view either. Finally, there have been those who have argued that the Criminal Code already contained provisions applicable to the forms of action of new terrorists and that it was therefore unnecessary to amend it in this field. I imagine that the same will be true of murder, robbery or rape, whose conviction sinks into the very beginnings of history, and that they are again and again the object of polishing, concretion or upsurge in the amount of the penalties applied to them. Nor, then, do we share the view that everything was already resolved. In fact, on 24 September, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution urging States to make the necessary legislative changes to enable, inter alia, returning combatants and lonely actors to be prosecuted and condemned. More recently, the day after the assassinations in Paris, it was argued that, in the face of a challenge of the magnitude of jihadist terrorism throughout the world - I quote textually - it is only possible to strengthen and update state capabilities for intelligence and police action, to protect critical infrastructures, to adapt legal treatment to the vicissitudes of a changing phenomenon, to strengthen bilateral and multilateral cooperation mechanisms and to promote legitimate initiatives of the international community in regions that are the focus of global terrorism. These are the words of Fernando Reinares, one of the most renowned Spanish experts on terrorism, which we share. And as we share them, we proposed to the Government - and the Government agreed - to withdraw the amendments that they had tabled and to discuss their content and text in order to reach a proposal that we could share; indeed, as provided for in paragraph 5 of the 2000 Covenant on Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism. In our view, it has been achieved reasonably well, it has been the result of the efforts of both sides, which have been able to find points of agreement and put the interests of all parties before them. This assessment requires looking both at the text of the Criminal Code still in force and to which those amendments would have resulted. Given both poles, I have to say that the proposal that I am defending today has solved the main problems that we had raised. First, the rules for determining what should henceforth be understood as terrorist offences have been clarified. It has already been highlighted by those who have intervened before me, but I want to insist on it. In the face of a long list of crimes that, apart from some obvious excesses, finally included an open clause that allowed the classification of any serious crime as a terrorist, a strict formula has been chosen that requires the simultaneous concurrence of three requirements: firstly, that it be a serious offence, i.e., punishable by more than five years' imprisonment; secondly, that it be included in the now restrictive list in article 573.1, and thirdly, that it be carried out for certain purposes, certainly those provided for in the framework decision of the 2002 European Council, that is, to subvert the constitutional order, to seriously alter social peace, to disrupt an international organization or to provoke a state of terror in the population or part thereof. Secondly, they have been deleted in the regulation that we are jointly proposing today: to have shown the willingness to commit, even to speak of capable conduct to reinforce the decision of another, which were so open and indeterminate that they even needed a trial of intent that caused high legal uncertainty and the absolute lack of guarantees proper to a State governed by law. Instead, the conduct in question is strictly described and the purposes to which I referred are required in order to qualify them as terrorists in terms of direct or indirect authorship, which, of course, will have to be proved by the means admitted to our law. Thirdly, the legislation so far in force already contained some forecast on so-called lone wolves, but it was very partial and small, so it was not adequate for the boom that has taken this form of action in our day. This deficit is being corrected today. Fourthly, it was a matter of concern, and rightly so, the unlimited form in which access to websites was criminalized. Coinciding with the need for the possible criminal sanction for those who use the network for terrorist purposes, we were clear that we should ensure that those who need or should make such consultations — professionals, researchers, journalists, etc. — do not commit a crime. Consequently, the text that we are discussing today requires customary behaviour and in which the purpose, once again tested, is to seek self-training in terrorist techniques, to receive training, to allow for recruitment, to receive instructions, orders, etc. Fifthly, the legislative vacuum was almost absolute in relation to one of the most worrying forms of terrorist activity today: travel to countries of intense presence or terrorist activity. It is now clearly criminalized, although it is again required to link such movements with training, indoctrination or collaboration. Sixth and last, the text from which we were based provided for the effective and explicit imposition of a reviewable permanent prison sentence in cases where a terrorist offence resulted in the death of a person. Today that reference is not found in the proposed law or in any other text that we have subscribed to by the two groups that we supported with our signature this proposal. Today we have replaced that formula with imprisonment for the maximum time provided for in this code. It is a formula that allows for the maintenance of the agreement, although it changes the regulation of the code provided for in the reform. That is why the Socialist Party does not endorse, protect, assume, share the penalty of reviewable permanent imprisonment, neither in terrorism nor in any other area, nor in terrorist crimes or in any other kind of crime. Whoever says otherwise does not tell the truth, because in the political agreement signed between the President of the Government and the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, this reservation is so strong that it is public our purpose and our commitment to appeal to the Constitutional Court the same day that the code is published in the State Official Gazette. Mr. President, I'm done. The Paris bombings, the massive assassinations that Boko Haram carried out on the same date in Nigeria and that he has reproduced today in Cameroon, the murder of hostages a few days ago by the Islamic State demonstrate the barbaric capacity of jihadist terrorism, and of which it targets not only Western societies, but also those in which it lives and has its original headquarters, to the point of making preferential victims of its criminal actions to those who, in theory, not in practice, share religion and belief. No one's safe, neither are we. We were not there 11 years ago and no one guarantees us absolute security in the future, because the threat is true and can come from outside or from among us. This is the basis of the agreements reached, this and the need to, as the proposal for a law to which I refer does, update our criminal legislation to punish all its forms of action and those of collaboration with them. We know that the response to terrorism does not focus primarily on the Criminal Code, and that is why the agreement signed by the Government and the Socialist Party extends to other areas as important or more than criminal ones, because the agreement incorporates additional important commitments in relation to the imminent reform of the Criminal Procedure Act to facilitate evidence of terrorist behaviour; in relation to a commitment to provide material and human resources to the State Security Forces and Bodies and the Administration of Justice; in relation to the fight against forms of radicalism and intolerance, especially xenophobia; in relation to the joint promotion of shared policies in the European Union in the prevention, persecution and punishment of terrorism; and in relation to the recognition and support of all victims of terrorism. We are already preparing to help implement these complementary commitments. It is a task to which we would like to incorporate all the groups in the House. It is worth an effort of mutual understanding, as we believe it is worth supporting this bill, even with the introduction of amendments that will improve it. In any case - and this is the end of it - the Socialist Group continues to believe in the value of democratic unity vis-à-vis terrorism. Let us comfort the citizens and give them at least the strength of this unity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. As a signatory to the bill, Mrs Oramas has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands Coalition throughout democracy has signed all the anti-terrorist pacts. We believe that this is a serious and important issue that affects society as a whole. But if there is a sensitive issue for the Canary Islands, it is the jihadist phenomenon and expansion that is currently taking place in Africa, because in the end the European border is also formed by Spain and the Canary Islands. As it appeared the other day in an important report in the main newspaper of this country, one of the points of entry is the Canary Islands; and in this regard, we will support this bill. Like the Socialist Parliamentary Group and all the forces in this House, we share our opposition to the reviewable permanent prison, but the formula that has been sought to make a state pact at a time as important as this is the right one. We are in line with the decisions that European countries are making. As the previous speakers in this rostrum have explained very well, we have legal loopholes and we have to pick up the typification of new terrorisms and their new adaptations, as well as the role of social networks and the Internet. Let us remember that this country was one of the first in the world to suffer this threat on March 11, 2004. I hope that the bill will be able to improve over the course of this week with the contributions made by the groups. Personally, I believe that there is a certain vacuum over the capture of women in our country by these terrorist organizations, primarily for their sexual exploitation in the war zone. In our country we have already had cases and there are still certain legal gaps in the recruitment of these women - young women in many underage cases - to take them to jihadist areas for sexual exploitation and indoctrination. Just as we have seen the worsening issue of minors, we must act on the recruitment of women whose role in the network is different and who are following other paths. Is there a legal vacuum in the event that the people who carry them, accompany them or come to seek them to be transported to the war zones cannot be stopped? They are Spanish women and I think that this week we could define those figures for which there is a certain judicial and legal vacuum. I end by thanking both Don Conrado Escobar and Don Rafael Hernando, Don Antonio Hernando and Don José Enrique Serrano for their ongoing communication on the development of the bill. Once again, the Canary Islands Coalition is with the democratic parties against terrorism and within our country's unity to say no to that nonsense of terrorism. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. I now give the floor to Mr Álvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my presence before you is intended to convey to you our political position on this proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, within the framework of the new measures to combat Islamic terrorism. These are driven by the mandate provided for against the Holy War in UN Security Council Resolution 2178 of 24 September, which already defines the new dangers facing the international community. In short, there is a new threat in its intensity and extent that directly attacks the foundations and pillars of our civilization, using the model of globalization and the modern system of transporting ideas, images, people and goods. The text before us seeks to amend the Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code by providing for new measures for this type of terrorism, in addition to those already provided for in our legal system for armed gangs, let us call them conventional. We understand that the fight against terrorism is a matter of State that needs a broad consensus among the largest number of parliamentary groups, so from the outset we express our intention to join a pact of political and parliamentary forces against this terrible threat. In the context of contacts with the People's Group in Congress, Forum contributed to the future legislative proposal the view that measures of investigation and police action should be explicitly introduced to enable the origin of the financing of terrorist groups of unique actions, as well as the trafficking, purchase and sale of explosives and weapons. Although the text can be nuanced in its legislative technique by the disproportionate extent of some of its paragraphs and the farragosity of others, we are faced with a matter of State which cannot be ignored with excuses for consensus formats and models of procedures to arrive at it, which sounds more like pre-electoral tactism that would fade into the air if what we all wish would not happen. In short, in my opinion, it is pure political theatre that I do not share, because the defense of our values of civilization exceeds us in our little miseries. In a dish for this menu you cannot confuse the meat with the fish; the meat of the dish is the fight against a common enemy; the potatoes are the format of the announcement of it, although perhaps it could have been improved. The particular interests should give way to the general interests, as already happened in the Ajuria Enea pacts of 1984, or in Madrid in 1987. You're still on time in this processing period. I would like to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for its kindness in contacting the Forum in order to know its political position. I shall therefore vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, denying today support for this initiative by saying that terrorism does not pose a real threat would be as much as being blind, voluntarily blind. Not recognizing, too, that terrorism is constantly changing its skin and its strategies seeking to destroy our coexistence with new methods of extortion would be malicious ignorance. In my party, the Navarro People's Union - I want to be clear - we argue that the state must be strengthened to deal with this new terrorism, because otherwise it would be a historic irresponsibility. We therefore welcome this joint initiative in which we have also worked and signed because we need to improve legal responses to combat this new outbreak other than terrorism. We can fully understand that some do not subscribe to it, do not even value it in positive or openly criticise it. How would they want to combat this new outbreak, for example, those who do not condemn the terrorism that we have suffered in Spain for 50 years, or those who claim that an individual who is tried and convicted for serious terrorist crimes may be a imprisoned politician, who must be on the street without social or criminal reproach, or who participate in tributes to terrorists who pride themselves on their crimes, or who have never had a gesture of humanity with the victims of terror? It would even be logical that those who have never supported a legislative measure in this House, aimed at combating ETA terrorism, would once again let others face these new threats, because it is true - the Minister of Justice acknowledged it weeks ago - that some spend more time defending the alleged rights of the most violent than the assaulted rights of normal people; as there are also those who do not know what to propose or how to justify their negative vote, use any large adjective on pretended or or oratory filigree to hide it. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are already accustomed - I say with pity and pity - to some living on a profile while the freedom of the Spaniards is threatened. I can understand that it is said that this agreement does not contain the best formula nor the only formula nor the only formulas, but then it would be good, in that case, to know the alternatives, that I am sure they will be more firm, more dissuasive and more effective in dealing with all the determination, all the fanaticism and all the contempt - absolute contempt - of the life shown by the terrorists. In the Union of the Navarro People we have been fighting terrorism, unfortunately, since our foundation, more than thirty-five years ago, and we have never submitted to the speeches or the strategies of the radicals. We have done so by denouncing all forms of terror and, in particular, the advocacy of hatred, indoctrination in extremist ideas and radicalization with which some snakes have wanted to legitimize their violence and criminal acts for decades. We are therefore particularly pleased that the agreement includes an amendment to the Penal Code to protect our children, our young people, the future of our country from those who try to brainwash them by turning them into instruments of hatred, incorporating into the Penal Code a new special disqualification to prevent those convicted of serious terrorist crimes from being able to practice teaching and to be teachers or educators of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, today we see how far fanatical acts, fanatical acts, go. We are fully aware of their threat. We may not do anything and look elsewhere, but we believe that today it is up to us to face up, to prepare, united and together, to respond to the hard blows that will surely come and create seamless alliances that will convey the message that, no matter how much they attack us, they will not achieve their goals, because together we are stronger. I'm done, Mr. President. We have participated in the drafting of this bill and we support the Government in the fight against terrorism, which, as the text of the agreement signed by the Socialist Party says, constitutes the worst enemy of democracy and freedoms. That is why I conclude by thanking all the people who have made this initiative possible for their discreet and effective work, which I hope will help to tackle this phenomenon with greater guarantees, because that is the only objective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. The Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left has requested the use of the turn against this bill. In his representation, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is taking part in the turn against the so-called anti-terrorism law or anti-terrorism pact, which is not so. This is a bipartisan shield, an armor of fear which, in our view, does not make us more effective against the new forms of terrorism, but which, in essence, is based on a code of vengeance, on the cruel code of reviewable permanent prison or life imprisonment and, on the other hand, on the extension of the classification of terrorism to mere dissent. That is the reality of this legal text proposed to us by the majority parliamentary groups, with the support of other groups within the Joint Group. I must begin my intervention, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that my parliamentary group has condemned, condemned and will condemn any terrorist act, whether it be an organized terrorist act or an individual terrorist act. I have to say that my parliamentary group does not set itself aside, quite the opposite; my parliamentary group believes that democracy without shortcuts defeats terrorism and that shortcuts weaken democracy. That is the position of my parliamentary group, and this initiative is a short cut in anti-terrorist matters. [[Applauds]] I used to say it's an armor of fear, ladies and gentlemen. Camus, in Caligula, said that fear nullifies everything, and I would say that even intelligence. Well, fear nullifies everything; and for the two parliamentary groups presenting this initiative, the Paris attack justifies the incorporation of previous amendments to the Criminal Code as if it were a new anti-terrorist law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only a refrain, and it justifies it in a short time not because of the citizens' fear of terrorism and the need for certainty, but because of the fear of the two majority parties from the electoral point of view, ladies and gentlemen. We too are afraid of the electoral blindfold; legitimately, we are afraid; expectation and fear, but that does not lead us to use the fear of citizens or to use our own fear as a strategy, let alone as a bipartisan strategy in the fight against terrorism. For some, the permanent prison or the force of the State, the Penal Code before the end of the social code; for others, the way to remain, despite the electoral situation, a part of the reason of the State. In short, it is a bipartisan agreement that has very little to do with the fight against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a penal code that is one of the toughest in the European Union. We can say that we have a Criminal Code in anti-terrorist matters, amended many times, which includes all the cases you say are incorporated into your reform of the Criminal Code. It incorporates all the cases and is used effectively by the police and judges. I will refer to the three essential aspects that have led them to this amendment of the Criminal Code. Lonely wolves: Individual terrorism has been covered by article 577 of the Criminal Code for a decade and is used by judges; recently, Valencia, 8 February 2013, a lone wolf arrested, accused and prosecuted. Training: another argument for the reform of the Criminal Code is in the current article 579 of the Criminal Code; one example is detentions in Ceuta last January 2015; several detainees, accused and prosecuted by the judiciary; there is no legal vacuum. Transfer to places where terrorist activities occur: article 576 of the Criminal Code; intervention of several persons in Syria, alleged terrorists, September 2014; detainees, accused and prosecuted. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the reasons for this new reform of the Criminal Code? Of course, it is not the lone wolves; of course, it is not active training, of course, it is not the transfer to places where terrorist activities are carried out to return to our country. And you will say: Something had to be done! Of course, something had to be done. Several European countries have done so, and we also did so after the Madrid bombing. England has done it and France has done it. But look at the details: none of these countries has immediately adopted a legal reform. All of them have focused on the means available to the police, on the security means; they have focused on police cooperation, on intelligence and on prevention. We can and must do the same. We could and should do the same. The causes of the Madrid bombing, the 11 March bombing - we all know that we were in that Commission of Inquiry - were problems of intelligence, even problems as basic as translation, of lack of translators; problems of cooperation between police information and execution by the judicial police and judges. That was the reality. The same could be said of the Paris bombing, because you have turned the Paris bombing into an attack on international jihadism. But, if you don't feel sorry for reality! But what the Paris bombing poses is local terrorism! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That is what the French Government itself says. It has to do primarily with police cooperation, it has to do primarily with the integration situation in France. We believe that those measures adopted by the French Government could also be part of the measures in Spain. Preventive measures, for example, where should they be applied? In particular in Ceuta and Melilla, so that they cease to be colonial cities and begin to be integrated cities, integrating citizens regardless of their confession, regardless of their origin. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the text. Revenge and exception; Penal Code of Revenge. The Socialist Parliamentary Group announces that it will amend the Penal Code to remove the permanent, reviewable prison or, rather, life imprisonment. Perpetual chain that is contrary to reinsertion, that is contrary to constitutional principles; because much contrary to that preaches that it is reviewable, it is not; it is irreversible; the longer-term reviewable life sentence of our environment - to twenty-five years - that by its requirements becomes an irreversible life sentence; that is, the code of revenge. This amendment is announced that it will be abolished at the time of another parliamentary majority, but at the moment, the Criminal Code and the reform of the law in terrorist matters provide for this penalty in the case of a terrorist attack resulting in death. And that's unchangeable. Even more, ladies and gentlemen, tell me - those of us who have been in the reforms of the Criminal Code - when has a penalty been reduced in the reforms of the Criminal Code? In successive reforms of the Penal Code in this country, in the heat of punitive populism - which is nothing more than this new initiative - each reform is tougher than the previous one, despite the fact that the data of violence in our country are increasingly lower and the data of crime are much lower than the Community average. I do not believe, we do not believe that reversibility of life imprisonment; life imprisonment has come to remain in the hands of the People's Parliamentary Group and with the inexplicable support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. With regard to another part of the reform of this non-minor anti-terrorism law, it is serious that we have opened the door to life imprisonment, but even more serious is the generalization of the concept of terrorism. It has been said that it takes three characteristics to do so: that it is a serious crime; that public disorder occurs - attacks on property, the environment - or that it also means destabilizing - it has not said something very important -, that it alters social peace or that it forces the public power to do or to stop doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not a crime to force the public authorities to do or to stop doing or to alter social peace that sounds like Gamonal? Does it not sound like the mobilization of a neighbourhood where there is a conflict, where there are reports of an attack and where social peace is finally altered because it is intended to change the opinion of the public authorities on a work? Sounds like it to me. Does it not sound like slavery, where public authorities are pressured to change a position, in this case, on evictions? Does it not sound like many of these subjects? For example, in the field of the environment, what about Greenpeace's actions in nuclear power plants? Ladies and gentlemen, we are led by a dangerous pending, that of considering terrorism any violent conflict, that of considering terrorism any dissent and, to the extent that we broaden our understanding of terrorism, we dilute the concept of terrorism, we dilute not only what terrorism is but also the fight against terrorism. That is one of the reasons why we do not share this reform, which, as I say, is a revenge reform, a cruel reform with reviewable permanent prison and, on the other hand, a reform in which dissent, including violence, becomes terrorism, and it is not. Now, you will not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the PP no longer has the will for surveillance to be carried out in agreement or disagreement with the judge. For what? If all is terrorism, communications can finally be made through the administration's own decision, a person who is involved in this so-called terrorism charge can be arrested for five days; that is, the entire coercive apparatus of the State can be used not to fight terrorism, but to fight dissent, to fight against those who are currently in conflict with the State. How curious! does it not draw your attention to the fact that you are to agree on reforms of the Criminal Code and there is no pact to reform the social code, there is no pact against poverty, there is no pact for employment, there is no pact to defend the social rights of citizens? [[Applauds]] It seems very easy to manage fear, but it is much more difficult to manage the discomfort of citizens. I finish, ladies and gentlemen, by talking about another aspect. I have talked about terrorism of dissent, but there is another: terrorism of thought. What we did not believe was possible, we did not believe that it was possible to find a new case for terrorism, now yes, now for attending a religious ceremony in which a magnet poses jihad, for reading pages on the Internet, for being informed, for travelling, all those issues that have no criminal charge anywhere in the world or in our environment, here the crime of thought enters directly into the Criminal Code and the Anti-Terrorism Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really unacceptable, because this adds to the disproportionate penalties, to the ambiguity of the terms, in short to so-called criminal populism. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is part - and cannot be avoided by the Socialist Parliamentary Group or other groups in the House - of a tripod of exception made up of the Citizens' Security Act, the Criminal Code and the Anti-Terrorism Act, which does not seek to provide security for citizens in the face of terror but, on the contrary, seeks to provide security for the State in the face of citizens. That is the fundamental question. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying that there is nothing more despicable than the respect that is obtained on the basis of fear, and I believe that respect is sought not on the basis of consensus but on the basis of fear. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. Mr. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Llamazares, your group has already announced that it would try to obstruct the parliamentary process of this bill, and the truth is that I must admit that you are fulfilling what you have promised. The fine sense of state and responsibility of his group has led him to oppose the handling of this bill. They seem to be at odds with the United Nations Security Council resolution of September 2014, which has required States to make the necessary legislative changes to prosecute and condemn returned combatants and lone wolves. It seems to them that they don't care that the recent transformations of the terrorist phenomenon require us to update our legislation; or that unfortunate events, such as the close attacks in Paris, have re-emphasized the grave threat of jihadist terrorism. So while we are concerned about the threat that terrorism poses to the freedoms of all, what really threatens you, what scares you is to go out in the picture with the rest of the parliamentary forces. [[Applauds]] You will know what your excuses are, but the truth is that the ones we have heard this afternoon are unbelievable. You say that reform is the reform of revenge, that it is a cruel reform. I'd like to ask you who, with the jihadist terrorists who have already killed about 200 people in Spain? I suppose when you speak of cruelty you refer to murderous cruelty, and when you speak of rights you refer to the right to life of the people who have been murdered. That's our concern. What worries us is not respect for the freedom of murderers. What concerns us is respect for the rights of citizens, which requires the defence of freedom from terror. If you want to bring here again the installation of the permanent prison that can be reviewed in the Penal Code, which is being seen and is currently being processed, I tell you that it is in the wrong debate. I've told you before. This proposed law does not refer to permanent detention as a reviewable prison, but to terrorist offences resulting in death the maximum penalty of deprivation of liberty set out in the Criminal Code shall apply. Let me tell you that you will have to explain much better why you do not like terrorists who have committed murder being given the maximum penalty of deprivation of liberty. You also say that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have created this anti-terrorist agreement on their own; you have spoken of bipartisan armor. Well, I remind you that this bill is signed by five parliamentary groups, five parliamentary forces representing 78% of the House. So before we talk about a lack of consensus and bipartisanship, I invite you to look at the seats in this House. It's a sarcasm that someone can say this is an exclusive agreement. There is no doubt that almost all the political forces that we are represented in this Parliament agree on the defence of freedom and life against terrorism, and that is precisely why we wanted this agreement to be open to all the parliamentary forces, also to you; to you, whom we invite to participate in this process of dialogue and we are still waiting for you. Possibly they had more important things to do, for example to see how they could oppose the handling of this bill. In any case, in spite of this, we again reach out to you, we hope you will tighten it for us and that unlike what is usually common in you, do not turn your back on us again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Castillo. Don Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. I think I'll be brief. To me, who am a movie lover, I was recorded based on seeing it again and again in Western movies, the typical quote of, with the Bible in my hand: revenge is mine, says the Lord. Well, it's from the Lord. I'm so secular, I don't even claim it for the state. It's the Lord's, and let him do with her whatever he wants. No, the state works with laws. [[Rumors]] I'm sorry, I have a voice that I think deep but I can't do any more; I can raise the tone. Three or four comments. First. Mr Llamazares, you cannot use the same argument of right and wrong, because you started by saying that to justify some amendments we use Paris and then you said that to answer Paris we use some amendments. The amendments were tabled - as I said in my speech - on 10 December and, I will tell you more - naturally - if there had not been those amendments we would probably not have been having this debate; perhaps we would have had it, but not at the time we are doing it, because probably the Government, the Socialist Group, you or any other group in the House would have understood that we needed to strengthen our responses. The problem is that on the 10th there was a proposal on the table that had to be answered and today we decided to do so by trying to agree to give a shared response to an issue like this - and I don't care if it is only 1% of the population that is concerned about terrorism today or 90%, because there is 1% I think it is enough - and on the contrary, if there hadn't been, we wouldn't be doing it. Secondly, you are talking about the permanent, reviewable prison, and I understand that, today it does not touch, but we need to talk about it. When did the penalties go down? I, who have a memory because I have been where I have been for a long time, tell you that there has been some campaign here that the socialist government was emptying the prisons Yes, Mr. Llamazares, a few years ago, but there were and it was a campaign that occurred precisely as a result of a reduction in the penalties provided for in the Criminal Code for a number of crimes. [[Mr. Trigo Llamazares Makes Negative Signs]] On what matters what we say and what we are supporting the reviewable permanent prison, I will tell you that when I started studying law and I was taught what the rules of legal interpretation are, I learned that the one worth above anything else is the authentic one, and the authentic one is the one of the one who writes something, the rest are presumptions or judgments of intent, which is what I could do if I read a text put forward by your parliamentary group that begins, no more or less, saying: In accordance with article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, all treaties must be strictly subject to compliance with the requirements of the principles of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Do I have to infer from this that you agree with the wording of Article 135 of the Constitution? I take it that I do not; I take it that I do and I do not want to debate this. You also assume that we do not protect, we do not share, we do not assume the permanent prison reviewable. [[Applauds]] It's the same kind of reasoning. I'm done. In general I have been concerned during my long life to maintain a medium-dignity commitment to what is the struggle for the freedoms and rights of people. This makes it always, also on this occasion, as we harden penalties, concrete behaviors, etc., we insist - and this is reflected in the pact signed by the People's Party and the Government with the Socialist Party - on our concern about the guarantee of citizens' rights and even the commitment to combat violent radicalism, mainly xenophobic and racist. I say this because I am clear that we are not in front of the good savage, that we are not in front of the good savage; this is something else, and behaviors like those that happened here eleven years ago and all over the world deserve an adequate answer every day. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mr. Callers.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. No, we're not in front of the good savage; we're not in front of that figure. Even continuing with Camus, that is true, what happens is that man, the human being, has many more aspects that save him than those that condemn him. It seems that some of the philosophies in the area of the Criminal Code and in anti-terrorist policy are based on this conception of the human being not as a good savage but as the human being to whom doubt and condemnation are transferred. They said you wanted the deal, I don't know how. Only by seeing the processing of this bill can one see the will of agreement: an urgent processing in one reading. What do you want, more words that show you how closed the initiative is? There is no such thing, it is urgent and in one reading, the next debate is Thursday. Therefore, no possibility of agreement, no; but also no possibility of prior reporting by constitutional bodies that could inform the position of the groups in this House. That is to say, you skip the procedure because there will be no report of the constitutional organs of the State, of the Council of State or of the General Council of the Judiciary, and on the other hand you establish a very comprehensive procedure and you say: now that it is going at high speed, you must go up if you have enough courage. And then they say we don't want to be in the picture! Well, I have heard the opposite many times in this House: that we are opposed because we just want to be in the picture. For on this occasion welcome be that we do not want to be in the photo; in that moving photo of the high speed and the urgent processing of this initiative we will not be. Then they talk about United Nations resolutions, most of them have no legal changes; they propose intelligence, police cooperation, prevention; legal changes, whoever needs it. Does the Spanish Government, which has recently amended the Penal Code and has done so in the area of counter-terrorism, need a new legal amendment? I say to you, no, that in the matters that concern you we have articles 576, 577 and 579; and I do not say that nor does the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left say that, say the prosecutors and judges of the National High Court. If they say so, that they have a legal arsenal and that what they need are means, police means, and also means of intelligence cooperation, it will be something. With regard to the Penal Code that we have called cruel code, it is not the first time that it has been historically called that. In France he was called before the end of the death penalty the bloody code; I have not come so far, I have spoken of cruel code. You guys get back a feather that you know when it's from? Do you know who lifted the sentence from the reviewable permanent prison? Primo de Rivera, Primo de Rivera a century ago, a century ago the dictablanda, repealed the permanent prison reviewable. What an honor for the People's Party and an honor for those who propose in this House to recover such a figure! Do you know why that figure is cruel? I return to Camus, because it only seeks punishment without prevention. It's something from the 20th century, not now. It seeks punishment without prevention. When there is prevention along with punishment there is remission of sentence, there is no permanent prison irremediable, which is what you propose in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, they are talking about the amendments and the Paris process. I have said this very clearly, the amendments were in the Penal Code, and both the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Plural Left Parliamentary Group have amended those proposals of the People's Party. The anti-terrorist side amends it and also amends it to the whole. What is striking is that, once the Paris bombing has occurred, the Socialist Party and the People's Party have reached an agreement on this matter, which has not so much to do with the amendments and the anti-terrorist needs in our country, but fundamentally, and I have said this before, with the climate created after the Paris bombing, with criminal populism and also with what I have called the electoral shielding of the two political forces that are going to save the State's reason for aggression. I shall now briefly end the citizens' rights. When I spoke of the concept of terrorism, what they said was terrorism, previous criminal codes, they said: act of organized and serious political violence with the capacity to endanger the democratic system, that is, to subvert the constitutional order, that was the precept that defined terrorism. How is it defined now? Serious crime against life or physical integrity, freedom, moral integrity, sexual freedom and compensation, property, natural resources, the environment, public health, catastrophic risk, fire, against the Crown, attack, public disorder, possession, trafficking and deposit of weapons, ammunition and explosives, seizure of aircraft, ships and other means of collective transport or goods, when carried out for any of the following purposes, no longer to end the democratic system, in addition to seriously destabilizing the functioning of the institution, the economic and social structure of the State - economic and social -, to compel the public authorities to carry out an act or to refrain from it, to seriously alter social peace... Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone knows the practicality of this concept of terrorism, let me know. We're all terrorists. According to this approach, we are all terrorists. [[Applauds]] Since we are not all, as we are not all, we are not terrorists, we are not terrorists who mobilize on the street and we are not terrorists who mobilize against evictions, as we are not all, you make the mistake of turning terrorism into dissidence and dissidence into terrorism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. In turn of fixing the positions of the groups, we started with the Joint Group. First of all, Mrs Barkos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Position fixation that in the case of Geroa Bai is a prolongation of the turn against which La Izquierda Plural started. We want to start by setting our position with a reflection on some of the words that we have been able to hear or some of the answers that the proponents have been able to hear this afternoon. That we are facing a security problem we all know. To suggest that in the position contrary to this reform what is good is absolutely unacceptable, or that there is no firmness in the face of violence and jihadist terrorism, which is equally unacceptable. Therefore, these starting points, as I say, the vote, and I announce it now, will be against. The spokesman for the People's Group, who is actually not here today, was advancing us. We are not looking at the continuing reviewable prison. I share the position, it's something much wider. Today you propose to us, and others say no, a political vision that, in our view, prevails over the control of freedoms under the fear of insecurity, and in this position - I would like to stress - there is neither lukewarmness nor much less connivance with terrorism, there is firmness in not allowing in the debate security and freedom, triumph the theses of those who face both concepts, because both - we claim it again and again - are necessary in the construction, maintenance and drawing of a civilized society. And the tension that between the two is generated in moments of alarm like the one that we are surely living with ups and downs, but for a few years now, demands precisely another kind of response to our understanding that the one that is being proposed to us today. We are told from the Socialist Party that this parliamentary group does not protect, endorse and do not assume the permanent, reviewable prison, that is, life imprisonment. No, but the signature, with legislative circumloquence, but the fact is that today the Socialist Party is signing a yes to the recovery of this penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, an agreement that has only been able to transcend what is really not but the implementation of life imprisonment is not an effective agreement, it does not guarantee to be an effective weapon against violence, against jihadist terrorism in this case. A pact that has burdened the bulk of your efforts in the staging of the meeting between the two majority parties in this House, rather than working for the meeting inside and outside this House - I want to insist on this, inside and outside this House, because the issue requires it - it is not a good pact, much less, as some pompously claim to call it, a pact of state. This proposal that they are making to us today is not how ambitious the ambition for security should be, nor how courageous the courage in defending freedom should be in this House too. Moreover, I add, where is the economic memory of this pact, where are the means for prevention? I'm done, President. The opposition against violence and terrorism is far greater than that 72% that we have been told today will support this bill. So I don't think it's like putting on the medal. Ladies and gentlemen, one hundred percent is needed in the face of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Last week I read two scary headlines, one on top of the other. The first said: the jihadists burn alive the Jordanian hostage; the next said: Jordan executes two Islamists as retaliation. The law of heel, eye for eye, act with the viscera and not with the brain. Does anyone believe that with these two executions the Islamic State assassins will stop executing hostages? With this reform I have the same feeling. It has acted to satisfy the most primary instincts, fear, rather than legislate with intelligence, with reason. Does anyone believe that by setting up life imprisonment, the enlightened madmen will give up killing? Really? Do we want to avoid the attacks? Let us empower research, invest in prevention in the slums of Ceuta and Melilla, where potential terrorists are recruited, increase the strength of the security forces dedicated to controlling terrorist activity, but let us not take advantage of this reform to pursue protest, freedom of expression and assembly, to hurt democracy from death. With this new legal capuza we will turn into terrorists tweeters, cyberactivists, students who protest against Mr. Wert's three plus two, people who protest a eviction, the privatization of health care or the nuclear power plants, and you, PP and PSOE, put it under a state pact. The PP thing I understand, but the PSOE thing is pure schizophrenia, approve something that you're going to repeal when you can, take the picture with someone who's been dynamizing people's well-being since the very day he started ruling in this House. They want state pacts, why not a pact on education, on pay, on hepatitis C, on labour reform, on dependence, on poverty? That's a fine sense of state, that would be a real handshake, not this. I'm done. When the absolutist king Fernando VII returned from France, his supporters received him in the cry of live the chains! - he remembered it a few days ago the lawyer Martín Pallin -; and that he did, he put a chain to the Constitution of 1812. Today you put a chain on the Constitution, gag democracy, restore life imprisonment. They won't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce the negative vote of the Galego Nationalist Block to take this bill into consideration for a number of reasons; for form and substance, but above all for substance. With regard to terrorist activities and acts, as even sources of justice have pointed out, the current legislation could carry out the actions envisaged by this proposal, while the glorious pact signed by the two major parties does not mention any kind of preventive measures. On the other hand, with the broad definition in article 573 of the concept of the crime of terrorism, any group or person who convenes or participates in social mobilizations or makes statements which, having nothing to do with terrorism, are not in the interest or pleasure of the person who governs. To set an example, a simple demonstration in front of Congress like there have been before. Indeed, the People's Party and the PSOE should explain more clearly the objective of this pact. State covenant, you say. What is the social good that this agreement will bring to citizens? Are you really going to give him more security or are you going to cut off more rights and freedoms? Or, gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, the aim is to deepen citizen fear, so that one can be willing to justify the lack of rights and freedoms for the sake of greater security, typical position, by the way, of frightened societies in such a way that they are even willing to justify the death penalty? Deepening in fear, ladies and gentlemen, does not lead to anything good; fear is the foreword of cowardice and, by defending itself in cowardice, the human condition manifests its miseries more than its generosity. That is why, as legislators, we should be concerned and unaccommodated, as the two major groups seem to be, with surveys that indicate that a majority of citizens agree with the life sentence passed a few weeks ago and that this bill ratified. That means, ladies and gentlemen, agreeing more with a vengeful, non-rehabilitative penal system than with a system that enforces justice from reason in the face of the irrationality of the offender. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, I would say that what you have done is a paripe of state, what you have done, ladies and gentlemen, in some way is to stage your predisposition or better-said willingness to defend a bipartisanism that has already expired socially. We therefore continue to express our position against the consideration of this bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Tardà now has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead with the disgust caused by jihadism, which causes pain, death and barbarism, and go ahead with the disgust caused by the actions of the States that fed it to satisfy the sale of weapons and their geopolitical interests. Our total condemnation therefore of jihadism, but the Socialist People's Party pact is a monument to cynicism, because you know that it will only be effective in preventing it if democracies cease to be the armed arm of the large capital groups that plunder the natural resources of the territories originating in the conflict - Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya - and it is also acting there in favour of the excluded and poor population, who are likely to get involved in this madness. Moreover, this covenant is a monument to lying, because they know that there is no relationship between jihadism and constitutional order. What is the point, then, of subverting the constitutional order? I'll tell him. Every time they sign an anti-terrorist pact, the most threatened freedoms remain. Will they apply it to us Catalans, if we democratically decide to be independent? This pact is also a monument to irresponsibility. Why do they refuse to be represented in Interpol and Europol by the Squadron, an integral police force? If citizens' safety is such a priority, why put the security of Catalan citizens at risk by banning the Squadron Mosses from joining these bodies? It is also a monument to shame, because the People's Party uses it to shield life imprisonment and you socialists eat it, even if you have to prostitute your political ideal. Do you know why they eat it? Because they're building the runway for the big coalition, because this pact is a monument to Machiavello. Socialist gentlemen, don't ever call us again. They're political trilers. A year and a half ago Mr Rubalcaba summoned us all and we solemnly signed a pact to repeal the Lomce as soon as we could, when there was a change in the correlation of forces of this Parliament, and you, twenty-four hours after signing this anti-terrorist pact, addressed the People's Party requesting a state education pact. This is playing trileros. You have agreed with us - with Mr Duran, with Mr Esteban and with all the political leaders; I myself signed on behalf of the Republican Left of Catalonia - a commitment to repeal the Lomce; however, twenty-four hours after signing this evil so-called anti-terrorist state pact, which goes against freedoms, you ask the People's Party to agree on what you have already agreed with us: to repeal the damn Wert law. So don't call us again, because you are more and more like them. Cánovas and Sagasta, the two chiefs and conservatives. Don't ever call us again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I now give the floor to Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, do you really think that this law can help solve the problem of jihadism? We're pretty sure we don't. This issue - by the way, very complex - requires addressing it in its full dimension. It requires taking into account the international context and starting from a model of relations based on diplomacy rather than interference, not military intervention and repression. So let's be clear, because here it rains over wet. It is not an anti-jihadist pact, do not deceive us, because here a penal code, the toughest in Europe, has been in force for a long time. I was going to address Mr Sánchez, but he is not, so please convey to him that we are not at all surprised that you have signed such barbarity because this is one more than so many; we are not surprised that by missing even his word and evaporated principles - if ever you had them - you have swallowed up with life imprisonment and much more. It has been a long time since you, lords of the PSOE, and you, lords of the People's Party, established life imprisonment. Or what do you think is forty years in prison? That's how it goes and that's how it's going to go, if not on time. Its objectives with this agreement are others. The anti-Jihadist pact, the law of gag and the reform of the Criminal Code constitute a trilogy against the rights and freedoms of citizens; precisely by this the political and social protest on the street becomes a crime, and you also claim to call it a terrorist. In fact, in our country, in fact, this has been the case for a long time. Therefore, we are facing a new version that is completely new to anyone who wants to change the current model. This is not an anti-jihadist pact, it is an anti-citizen pact; jihadism is only an excuse to turn the Penal Code upside down, extending the concept of terrorism to other areas. The biggest change is not directed at the jihadists, it is directed at the popular sectors here, who at the moment question the neoliberal model and the existing territorial model and protest the consequences that give rise to it. That is why you extend the concept of terrorism to the extreme, introducing crimes as generic as that of attack, public disorder or against freedom. This is the true twist of the nut, which conforms the trilogy in perfect harmony with the law gag and the reform of the Penal Code. Reform after reform you have established a truly hidden state of emergency. They just need to sign an agreement, a curfew pact; I see them eager to sign it in the next reform. With this agreement, what is also going to happen is that the prison entrance doors will be gigantic, while the exit doors will not even exist. You have had time to learn some of Victor Hugo's wisdom when he said: open a school and close a prison. However, with this Government we have it raw, because it precisely has the opposite objective, which is to fill prisons with citizens who dare to defend their rights and yet empty schools. Do not deceive us, because you really seek to intimidate and criminalize social protest and everything that bothers you. Or do you forget that the current anti-terrorist legislation in the Basque Country has already banned political parties, youth organizations, international organizations, banned demonstrations and political acts, closed newspapers, magazines and radio stations and sentenced young people to sixteen years in prison for burning an ATM? Even so, you intend to deepen and extend this repressive situation in the face of the evident cry of change and respect for the will of the citizenry that comes from Euskal Herria, Catalonia and broad spectres of the State. Clearly, we are facing a coup d'état against the democratic rights and freedoms of citizens. Let us discover the turbulent interests of this agreement, the turbulent interests of this union of convenience, which we could perhaps call it subsistence. This state pact is the State's response to the social protest for usurped social rights. It is the State's response to the territorial problem of nations defending their political rights and the right to decide their future freely, such as Euskal Herria and Catalonia. It is the response of the State, with the PP and the PSOE at the forefront, to shield the current model of State, the current economic, political, social and territorial model imposed by the 1978 regime. Those who do not show obedience to it, already know what they have; of that, the students, the teachers, the women and the workers and all the people on foot of Euskal Herria already know enough. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Although the State, blind in its trench, intends to prevent it, it is the time of popular will, the time for solving social and territorial problems, the time for citizens to decide democratically on all their issues, and the repression, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, will not stop, because now is the time, because profound changes are coming and because we will work to make this change a reality in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. At this very turn of positions, I now have the floor, by the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarria.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the two ministers who have started the meeting with us have been absent, even the two spokespersons who have spoken on behalf of the signatory groups of this pact called a state, euphemistically. The rhetoric carried out or practiced by both is a somewhat hallucinogenic, ideological rhetoric, in the most Marxist sense of the expression ideology, which is transformation or perversion of reality, because this pact of State has none of the goodness, none of the virtues that they have glossed, and yet it has - it is a reflection that pretends to be realistic and honest - the following problems. [[The lady]] First, it is a conditional, conditional state pact. The state pact, if it is true what the members of the Socialist Party say, will be modified in an aspect as important as the system of penalties. You have pledged to repeal the life imprisonment, the reviewable life imprisonment, to which you have not referred. They say that they do not endorse it and undertake to reform it, but in the meantime they are endorsing it, as long as they accept the requirements or the provision, which is already foreseen, regarding the most serious crimes contained in this proposal for an organic law which refers to the Criminal Code and which does record the reviewable life imprisonment. For many dribbles, for many elliptical operations, ideologically speaking as well, which you perform, you are temporarily endorsing the reviewable life imprisonment. When will they be able to remove it from this state covenant? When they rule. When's that gonna be? The political board is very messy and one has the impression that this pact of state is incardinated in an attempt, somewhat perverse in our opinion, either to strengthen certain recent leaderships in some parties or to hide the poor political management of other parties in different areas or to obtain electoral revenues. This is the essence of this state pact. We are convinced that this is the case and, therefore, it is a bad pact of State ab origin, from the beginning, and without legitimacy. Furthermore, it is a two-member, two-member and three-member state pact of the Joint Group, to which I obviously wish to express my consideration and respect, but it is a two-member pact, which obliges the other groups in the House to carry out an act of unconditional adherence to what you have agreed. It is a very inadequate formula for reaching broad consensus on matters as important as the fight against non-jihadist terrorism - methodologically I have to correct all the spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word - but against terrorism. This is where all crimes that seek to criminalise terrorist behaviour or behaviour are regulated, and very badly, from a technical point of view, in an absolutely harsh manner. In the absence of much of the foregoing, this pact of State is bound up with reviewable life imprisonment. I would like to remind you that the best argument I have heard against reviewable life imprisonment, against life imprisonment - let us forget the euphemisms and periphrases - was that of the spokesman of the Socialist Group in the debate on the Penal Code, Mr Villarrubia, who emphatically declared the unconstitutionality of life imprisonment and its contradiction with three precepts of the Constitution, 10, 15 and 25; the one which guarantees the dignity of persons, the one which prohibits cruel and degrading punishment and the one which states that the meaning or orientation of the sentences of deprivation of liberty consists in the resocialization, the social reintegration of offenders. It is difficult to resocialize anyone with reviewable life imprisonment. Mr Castillo - I feel he is not here - has quoted a very recent judgment produced in the United Kingdom by the European Court of Human Rights - because it also contradicts the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights - where it is said that the non-establishment of revisions contradicts the European Convention on Human Rights. But it is that the establishment of revisions is carried out within such long periods of time in this proposal of law in the regulation of terrorist offences and in the regulation of reviewable life imprisonment, that these revisions already exceed what the European Court of Human Rights considers cruel, degrading and therefore contrary to the European Court of Human Rights. Then also this pact, amen of the extravagances previously announced, possesses the extravagance that it is founded on an unconstitutional precept, the recognition - even against its own will, with its cultural acquis or its ideological acquis - of the reviewable life imprisonment. Are you going to remove it when you rule? There is no need for you to rule, and let me remind you of the budget; it is not an easy budget as the political board is at the moment. We will see whether you are removing it when you rule, but as soon as you are a guarantor of life imprisonment while you rule and repeal it, as long as this situation and its validity lasts and continues to be condemned or can be condemned, through this proposition of law, to persons to this penalty, which is not unconstitutional because I say so. In the "Diary of Constituent Sessions" that served to approve the Constitution there are at least six references by which the Constituent Legislator expressed his opposition to incorporating life imprisonment into the Spanish legal system. And you are endorsing the incorporation into the Spanish legal order of life imprisonment. There are six different references, practically all the constitutional rapporteurs in the paper, and you know that, Mr Serrano. On the other hand, with regard to penalties, the system of penalties is expanding. We have always assumed from the budget that against terrorism we need to increase democracy, strengthen democracy, not weaken it. How is democracy weakened? Expanding the Penal Code, producing an expansion and intensifying the reproach of penalties, which is what has always been done behind all the pacts that you have signed with the PP or the PP with you; in 2003, in 2010, and above all now. But it is that the increase in penalties, not with local territorial court terrorism, but with a new profile of terrorism, the jihadist terrorism to which we are referring, has no deterrent effect. The purpose of the sentence, general prevention, special progression and remuneration is irrelevant to a jihadist who has previously discounted his immolation before committing an attack. Then from a dissuasive perspective of the commission of terrorist crimes, the increase in penalties can serve for others but not for a jihadist terrorist, in addition to producing a perverse criminogenic effect, since they will be the subject of harsher convictions those who collaborate, those who carry out apologetic reflections, those who adopt, that the commissioner himself, who is willing, because this is the profile of the jihadist terrorist, to immolate himself. Mr. Llamazares has said it brilliantly. We have both been on the 11-M Commission of Inquiry and what is fundamentally needed is efficiency and collaboration outside the Community or international and intra-Community, because in this State there are also integral forces, which are police forces with full competence in the field of citizen security. Mr. Llamazares, like me, we remember what was going on before 11-M. The following happened: the terrorists who planted the bombs obtained them from kaolin mines protected by a toothless dog and which were handed over to the terrorists by police confidants in Asturias. This is what needs to be avoided, such perversions and operational inefficiencies in the police field in order to end any terrorist phenomenon and not indiscriminately increase penalties and reduce democracy. Less democracy against terrorism, no; more democracy against terrorism. Mr Serrano, you, a great knower of the law, have not been able to convince your colleagues, your cobblers, of something that you know is poorly configured from a technical-legal perspective. Terrorism is an autonomous crime, it is defined by itself, its forms of participation as well, and the incorporation of a list of crimes, which automatically become terrorism, causes severe legal uncertainty, because on that list that you have incorporated 573 with your fellow pacts up there, they incorporate crimes, but not all crimes that can be committed by a terrorist organization. They have forgotten nothing less than the Strauss, they have forgotten nothing less than coercion, they have forgotten nothing less than kidnapping or illegal detention and even introduce crimes that are not usually committed by terrorist organizations such as environmental crimes, for example. How did they make the list? Knowing that a list embedded in the definition or type of terrorism only confuses and provokes judicial arbitrariness, because it will have to be the judges who determine when criminal injustice is involved or not, how have you allowed it or not been able to avoid it, knowing that it is a technically inadequate definition? Terrorism and forms of participation are defined and then other crimes; and those other crimes that have their iuris name and their specific type are increased if they have been committed by a terrorist organization, but are not introduced into the generic concept of terrorism, which must be autonomously defined. If it were little, you use vague, extravagant concepts, concepts that are difficult to specify that will provoke manifest judicial arbitrariness. In terms of apologia, in terms of collaboration, how can you admit - I am referring to you, Mr Serrano - passive collaboration or participation in the field of collaboration with terrorist activity? How does one passively collaborate...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u31	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u32	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. In the area of advocacy, they define advocacy in such a vague and extravagant way that the United Nations human rights rapporteur himself has reproached them for legally insecure and contrary to the principle of criminal legality. Indoctrination. What is indoctrination? The one that's ideal? How do you use meta-legal concepts such as fitness without realising what is appropriate, again violating the principle of criminal legality? How do they make this huddle and call it a state pact against terrorism by relying only on another party for certain electoral reasons - no, surely -? I expected more from you in this matter, but relatively. I also attended the pre-reform pacts of 2003 and the pre-reform pacts of 2010...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u33	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u34	... where the penalty for certain offences was increased to 40 years of effective deprivation of liberty. This is technically called the enemy's penal code, paraphrasing Jakobs, the favorite author for you. You continue to play the enemy's penal code and this is all you do is strengthen the terrorists because you can denounce the democratic deficits of the punitive system. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u35	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first the language is corrupted and then the policy is corrupted; it is always a previous step: the corruption of the language leads to the corruption of the policy. And here the language has been corrupted when we call a state pact to combat terrorism a reform of the Penal Code. There have been State pacts to combat terrorism in Spain: the Ajuria Enea Pact in 1998 and the Pact for Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism in 2000. None of them amended any law; it was a political pact, political conditions, the fight against terrorism, to end terrorism, to arm democratic society, to point out who were the enemies of democracy. This is not a state pact to fight terrorism, do not call it that because it is not, and because it also devalues the authentic state pacts that have existed in Spain to fight terrorism and for freedoms. You have wanted to emulate the state pacts against terrorism of the year 2000 or 1988 to take a picture; the photograph of two boxers knocked over a canvas, which seems to be sticking but holding themselves in order not to fall on the canvas and have brought this to us. Moreover, I insist, they have perverted the language, they have corrupted it and they have called it what it is not and they have wanted to sell it to us as what it is not. They have used another corruption greater or equal of evil, and it is that they have also called it - Mr Olabarria pointed out - a state pact against jihadist terrorism. But what a way to call things by the names they're not! It is neither a state pact nor a criminal code measure against jihadism. Or does it only apply to those in the turban? These are measures to reform the Criminal Code that are applicable to all terrorists, turbans and berets. But don't call it jihadism or say it's about the Paris bombings or the lone wolves. No, that's not why. Moreover, this chapuza - procedural chapuza, not that of the content, which is another chapuza - you have wanted to mask it with this that it is to defend us from terrorism. Man, some of us don't have to explain what is disgusting about terrorism, we don't have to go up to the rostrum to explain it, but this about dressing it up like this, taking the amendments from the Penal Code to bring them to what they have called a state pact, it's a boulder and a monumental lack of respect. The People's Party had proposed amendments to the Criminal Code on issues on which it had not previously reflected. It was because I did not believe that the Criminal Code needed to be strengthened in order to combat terrorism effectively, because if it had not, in three years' time, I would say. No, you put them as amendments and you, to give them a hand, take them out so they can take the picture. To have discussed the amendments within the reform of the Criminal Code, because this is a sluggish reform of the Criminal Code and not anything else. They no longer corrupt the political debate by calling things for what they are not, they no longer corrupt it because it corrupts politics. There is no need for a judge to come to talk about corruption; this is corruption, what you have done today calling things by the names you are not and trying to deceive the citizens. As I said before, the two pacts, that of 1988, by Ajuria Enea, and that of 2000, for freedoms and against terrorism, did not bring any legal reform because the laws are otherwise reformed. None of them contained any legal reform and were, in fact, political pacts. Why confuse? Why bring him here now? Why don't you call it what it's like? Perhaps to devalue that or perhaps because you Socialists want to call this an anti-jihadist pact because you agree with them, with the people, that ETA no longer exists and do not want to talk about an anti-terrorist pact so that it does not seem to be directed also to those of the beret? From the point of view of the actual penal reform, it is a shambles and some have already told it. It is true that in the process they have arranged some of the chapuzas in the writing: passive training as a new criminal type. But that was already in the Penal Code. Or isn't it that if you go to Syria, live here or wherever, and form, say in quotes, becomes terrorism? Wasn't that so, Mr. Castillo? I was already in the reform we made of the Penal Code. They've also arranged it a little bit on the web pages, not that between a journalist or any of us to see what's being said on those web pages and consider us terrorists. It says: No, it has to be - you have put - that the purpose is credited. Hey, and how is the purpose credited? Is the thought of what is entering the website interpreted? Or does he commit a terrorist act? Because if you commit it, I was already penalized. What, then, is it that the purpose is proved? What the hell is that? Then, the contradiction with the reform that had been made on universal justice. But have you not realized that there is a contradiction with the reform of universal justice and that you would even have to put an amendment, an additional, transitional provision or whatever it is to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary, so that judges will not find themselves with a problem the day after this is approved? [[Rumors]] And what is already, in my opinion, the peak of the peaks is that article 573. Not to mention the reviewable permanent prison, since they have placed in it - as well as the reviewable permanent prison is not yet in the Penal Code because it is in the Senate - that the imprisonment for the maximum time provided for in the Penal Code will apply to these crimes. But this is unconstitutional. You know it well and so do you. [[Pointing to the left and right]] How can a Criminal Code be inaccurate? It says: the maximum time provided for in the Penal Code. And are the judges going to have to look at every moment what is the maximum expected time? Does this have to do with the maximum time? And what is the maximum time allowed for this type of crime? Do you know of any Penal Code in which there is an inaccuracy in speaking of a crime and do not say: this crime, so many years; this one, so many others? Imprecision. Make sure you smoke something in the Senate and decide, now that you are there, that the maximum time is ten years. So, ten years tops? What kind of joke is this? Just so we don't call things by their name, so that these gentlemen will continue on the canvas hugged to the other knockout medium, let's remove the name so that we don't know what we're talking about. But they were talking about this. It is, in our view, a shame. But in addition to being ashamed of all this, what is needed in the fight against terrorism - that of beret and that of turban - is not to reinforce the new criminal types or criminal types. What you need is prevention. What you need is intelligence. There are four European pillars - they are constantly cited - which are: preventing, protecting, prosecuting and punishing. And here you speak only of punishing; neither of preventing, nor of protecting, nor of persecuting. We need intelligence, resources for intelligence, resources for persecution, resources for detention. No new criminal types or reinforce the types that already existed. With this, from the point of view of the real fight against terrorism, this is pure smoke. It is a shame and it is an exercise of irresponsibility even though you have put very serious words to him when it comes to calling it. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, although you know, or I remember, that my parliamentary group in general always votes in favour of the consideration, which is what we are dealing with this afternoon: the consideration, after listening to you and to you, let me tell you one thing: we will take you into consideration when you take us into consideration. [[Pointing to the left and right]] Therefore, we will not support the consideration. You already have enough votes for the law to go forward. You do not take us into consideration, you do not respect us, you do not take us into consideration, either in substance or in form, we will not take you into consideration, and therefore we will not vote in favour of this consideration. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Finally, by the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, acts of international terrorism pose a threat to peace, to security, which we must prevent, which we must suppress. And Convergence i has always united, in all legislatures, we have been at the side of that shared goal of combating terrorism, against - now in a very special way - these new forms of international terrorism. I begin with this statement to begin to show the profound discrepancy that we have since Convergence i Unió about the way in which the proposal that we are debating here has been conceived. It has been done in a way - it has already been said - bipartisan, in a way that departs from those broad consensuss that they say they want to seek on a subject that needs broad consensus and has been made as a pact of two, it has been solemnized as a pact of two and then the other groups are asked whether or not we want to adhere to what they have already agreed, which they solemnize even institutionally; they are told to the other groups that we can make contributions, but we are asked at a time after the initial moment when both groups had even had direct interviews and meetings with the Minister of the Interior or with the Minister of Justice. From the outset, Convergence i Unió stated that the forms were not adequate and neither do we like the concrete content of some precepts, especially those that can lead to an unprecise and dangerous enlargement of the type defined in some crimes that will become considered terrorism and do so through a new regulation that lacks clarity, that lacks rigor; a clarity and rigor that are always required in every rule but in a special way when we talk about a penal norm. Hurrys aren't good. The accelerated forms, the bipartisan forms have led them to close the agreement in a hurry, to close the text in a hurry, to print, as they have done, an accelerated processing that will be discussed in one reading and directly in the plenary. This criminal reform will not have rapporteurs, this criminal reform will not have a report on the presentation, this criminal reform will not have an opinion from the Committee on Justice, it will go directly to the plenary. We are talking about important criminal types that we need to know how to legislate by seeing the final scope that you have, and you agree on an accelerated procedure that is never good in this Parliament, but even less so if it is about defining new criminal types. So, we're missing the warning lights. We are not going to oppose this proposal for a law that you have agreed to be dealt with by Parliament, but, do not get confused, do not oppose its processing at all does not mean to endorse the current content of that text. We are going to put forward amendments that are going to address explicitly what can - and we do not share - be an over-extension of the penal type. This is a far-reaching extension of the penal type because this reform is taking place - and those who are jurists are going to see it clearly, and I like the Minister of Justice to be incorporated now - from a criminal point of view - and the penalists to whom Convergence i Unió has consulted have thus pronounced themselves - a mutation of the basic crimes relating to article 573.1 - some crimes, I will quote, against freedom, against the Crown, of public disorders - that they become crimes of terrorism simply because they claim some of the purposes indicated in that article. What are those purposes? It can be destabilizing the functioning of institutions, or economic or social structures, it can be subverting the constitutional order, it can be altering public peace. All this, which are indeterminate legal concepts according to what the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court itself has said, all these purposes suddenly become or mutate into a crime of terrorism. Do you know what's going on with this? That it is not known that it is the means, not the purpose, that make terrorism a crime. And the media is violence, the media is acting violently. Of course we're all against terrorism! How can we not all be against terrorism? And terrorism, how does it work? Act with violent means! And if the media isn't violent, we're not dealing with that terrorist act. So, what do we ask of them? We ask them that through the amendments we be able to narrow down that excessive extension of the penal type; we ask for it, so we will amend it. And the result of those amendments will depend on us voting on Thursday next week that yes or no to the text that finally comes out of that accelerated procedure in plenary, because it is important and because the Constitutional Court itself tells us so. The Constitutional Court warns us that we must guard against delimiting what this court calls open illegal types that are not in accordance with the Constitution. And I will quote only three sentences: 26/2005, 283/2006 or the first, 100/2003. In these judgements, the Constitutional Court tells us that it is not constitutionally possible to admit formulations that are so broad, because of their vagueness, because of their indefiniteity that the effectiveness depends on a practically free and arbitrary decision of the interpreter and judge. Therefore, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court is warning us that we must always define more precisely the criminal rates, and more in this case which is done so openly and extensively, and more in this case in which the penalty may be a penalty to which Convergence i Unió and Mrs Surroca, who is the rapporteur of the Criminal Code, we have opposed; we have opposed the permanent prison reviewable, we have clearly opposed the permanent prison reviewable. And it is the opposition to a penalty that will be demanded in these cases when the type remains open, when it remains dangerously open. We therefore share that goal of combating terrorism, we share that goal of tackling these new forms of international terrorism. We understand that in these respects it is good that there are large agreements, that there are shared wills, and we hope that this will end those shared wills, those broad agreements. We wish, as always, for Convergence i Unió, but today, I repeat, we do not object to this being dealt with, but we are going to be demanding in those hasty amendments that are going to be printed before the same plenary, demanding in what must be an open, clear, concise criminal rule, as the Constitutional Court itself requires us and as the most basic legal certainty demands us. It cannot be accepted that in this area of the fight against terrorism there are open rates, that there are totally undefined types, that there are types that can have that extensive application that causes danger in its application, risks in its application, and that in addition from Convergence i Unito we understand that it is not the best way to legislate. We therefore ask for this calm reflection, we ask that at the amendment stage - which has already been said by other speakers and we welcome it - they be open to improving the text, to tabling amendments. We wish this to be so. I shall end with one last thought. The United Nations Summit on Terrorism, held in Madrid in 2005, warned of abuses that States could sometimes impose on the fight against terrorism by means of legislative amendments that, in order to deter, hinder or defend what we all share, which is against acts of terrorism, would eventually eliminate the rights and freedoms guaranteed by international human rights law. At that summit, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights told us that counter-terrorism measures must always, always, be compatible and fully respect the principles of necessity and proportionality. Therefore, in this reform we will find ourselves, in a reform that is demanding, to really serve us to increase the mechanisms that our legal system has to combat terrorism and these very serious new forms of international terrorism, but we will also find ourselves demanding in the principles of legal certainty and in the principles of preserving that criminal system applies in the manner in which it must always be applied, not in the way in which the content of this proposed law is presented today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u39	Thank you, Mr. Jané. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE TERRITORIALIZATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF 0,7 % OF THE IRPF FOR OTHER SOCIAL INTEREST, INCLUDING THE ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERISTICS. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 122/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u40	We move on to the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on territorialisation of the performance of 0.7 % of the IRPF for other purposes of social interest, including those of an environmental nature. [[Convergence and Union]] For your defense, Mr. Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u41	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum in defense of this proposal of law proposed by Convergence i Unió, which aims to transfer the management of resources from 0.7% of the IRPF for social and environmental purposes to the autonomous communities. [[The lady]] This is not much less, ladies and gentlemen, a new issue, we have discussed it on numerous occasions in the House and not only in this legislature, but in previous legislatures with shared initiatives almost always, or I would say always, by Catalan groups. Even in the last legislature, a mandate was adopted for the then socialist government to move in precisely the direction that guided this bill; a mandate that finally could not be fulfilled at the will, I suppose, of the then government. It is an initiative that responds to a wide demand from the third social and environmental sector in Catalonia. There is a huge consensus in Catalonia that the resources of 0.7% should be managed, in our case, by the Government of the Generalitat and also in Catalonia this demand enjoys strong political support. Virtually the whole House defends this aspiration and, if I may say so, I have even come to hear in a congress of the third social sector in Catalonia how the leader of the People's Party in Catalonia today, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, defended the need for the Catalan Government to manage these resources. It is a demand that is justified by the competitive titles of the exclusive autonomous communities in matters affecting these subsidies. In addition, specifically in the case of Catalonia and in the case of subsidies, Article 114 of the Statute clearly states that in the case of subsidies of a State nature but affecting matters whose competence falls within the competence of the Generalitat, it must be the Generalitat who manages them. It is a claim, ladies and gentlemen, based on twelve judgments - twelve judgments - of the Supreme Court and of the Constitutional Court that over the last few years they have established in a meridian way that in those matters that the autonomous community is competent, the State can establish a line of subsidies, can decide to spend the money on that policy, but that it is up to the competent autonomous community to manage those resources. The State, in terms of what the constitutional doctrine defines as spending power, has the capacity to spend on what is not competent, but its capacity to spend cannot empty the competence of the autonomous community. On 12 occasions, the Supreme and the Constitutional have established this principle, and even the Constitutional Court has come to expressly mandate the Government to cease failing to comply with the sentences and to comply with them once and for all; it has expressly mandated the enforcement of the sentences. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a justified demand because the solidarity return of Catalan taxpayers, the effort that Catalan taxpayers make by marking the corresponding cross in their income declaration is not compensated by a sufficient return of the allocated resources. In particular, Catalonia receives 22 million euros less in social and environmental programmes than those collected in Catalonia. Catalonia is home to EUR 29.7 million - we are talking about figures in recent years - and there are still EUR 22 million that Catalan taxpayers have decided to allocate to social purposes and that they do not invest in the fight against poverty in Catalonia, in assistance to the elderly, in assistance to persons with disabilities and children at risk. This figure of EUR 29.7 million represents 14% of the state's expenditure and has nothing to do with the population, because the population in Catalonia is 19%, nor with that contribution of Catalans which represents 25% of the total number of crosses marked in Spain. Twenty-five per cent of the resources allocated to 0.7 per cent come from Catalan taxpayers and the return is 14 per cent. It is also good to remember that today Catalonia is the territory where the most citizens mark the cross. 48% of Catalan taxpayers are marking the cross; the average in the state is 36%. It is a citizen effort, a civic effort, solidarity with the Catalans, that we are willing to be in solidarity with the whole state, but we cannot be in those terms. That also justifies this initiative. In addition, the policies that the Spanish Government has been building in this area push, perhaps not very subtlely, that if autonomous entities want to benefit from the resources of 0.7%, they must go the way of articulating themselves at state level. Logically, this finds the rejection of an important sector of Catalan civil society that aspires to build an autonomous and independent civil society, not necessarily linked to state-level organizations. All these are the issues that have led Convergence i Unió and other groups in the House over the past few years to raise the need for 0.7% to be managed by the Autonomous Communities, in our case by the Government of Catalonia, by the Government of the Generalitat. So far, we have encountered a clear rejection of the parties at the state level, with a conception of the clearly Jacobin and centralist social policy, with an interventionist view of the third sector and with a vision contrary to the rationality of the public administrations, because, ladies and gentlemen, if the competences in social policy belong to the autonomous communities, if the autonomous communities are those that legislate on the social services that affect the collectives that benefit from the policies developed by the NGOs, if those who promote policies in the territory, in the neighborhoods, in the cities, in the peoples are the autonomous communities and municipalities, what is the meaning of a programme managed by the General Administration of the State? What use does it have in combating the problems of inequality, poverty and support for the most vulnerable groups managed by an administration that has not developed social programmes for 30 years? Moreover, the assertion that this programme has been justified over the years is that the problems are common throughout the State - minorities, vulnerable groups, the elderly - and that this requires State intervention. From that very prism, they should perhaps suggest that social policy should return to the time of Francoism. Well, since there wasn't at that time, let it go back to pure and hard management from the state. It makes no sense in terms of the rationality of the public administration, of the non-duplication of public services a centralized management of that policy. The spokesmen of the People's Group, when they have to pronounce, may be tempted to say that in this matter, in fact, there have been these twelve rulings of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court that have led to a new legal paradigm that justifies that the subsidies continue to be managed by the Ministry of Health and Social Services - the corresponding royal decree that was adopted some time ago - and that therefore these rulings have already been implemented and the Government is in full constitutional order. You know that Royal Decree 536/2013 of 12 July 2013 and subsequent calls linked to it have been appealed by the Government of the Generalitat, basically with the argument and the reasons that in that regulation the State has changed the titles of competence to be attributed to that competence but the specific content of the programmes that are being subsidized is practically the same as those that were appealed and that were won in the courts by the Government of the Generalitat. There is no new management paradigm of 0.7 per cent, it is the same one that has been rejected by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court justified in competition titles that the State does have, but which have little to do with the specific programmes to which the subsidies are being applied. The substantive issue therefore remains unresolved. We are talking about resources that citizens allocate to groups at risk, linked to social policies in a fundamental way, which must be managed by the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary procedure in which we are today is that of consideration, and that allows us to state, if you choose to accept that consideration, that we are prepared to reach a political agreement in this area that will give stability to this issue which has been politically and judicially controversial in recent years and that will enable the third sector of the state to benefit from these resources. The leaders of the third sector at the state level know this position of Convergence and Union. Even at other times in Catalonia, concrete proposals were made on how a satisfactory solution could be reached for entities of the state, Catalan and any territorial sphere, while at the same time complying with the existing legal framework and correcting this imbalance in the solidarity effort of Catalan taxpayers. We are also prepared to give that stability to this issue. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that this is not a demand for Catalonia. It is true that this demand is born in Catalonia, among other things by vitality, energy, strength, the independence of the third sector, even by its critical character if I may say so, but I am sure that in other territories with dynamism, with strength, with civil society, such as Galicia - the Basque Country and Navarre are excluded from this system, as you know - these kinds of proposals can also find support. And in those territories where management is preferred to be centralized by the central government, which can continue to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want, we are willing to take a step further in order to give citizens more choice, more freedom to decide what their resources are for. Let us open the possibility for citizens to decide also when they make their income declaration to which entity or program they want to allocate these resources. Let us not allow either the central administration or the autonomous administrations to determine what these resources should be devoted to, which come from this solidarity effort of the citizens in their income declaration. Ladies and gentlemen, in this legislature, a couple of years ago, in September 2012, the day after the great demonstration in Barcelona on 11 September 2012 that opened what we know as a Catalan sovereignist process, I said from this very rostrum that the disaffection of a large part of civil society and of Catalan society as a whole towards Spain also had to do with this kind of attitude that the Spanish governments have had in recent years in matters where the Catalan position - not the Catalan position of the political forces, but the position of Catalan society - is unanimous. And the governments of the State - the governments of the People's Party and also, unfortunately, the governments of the Socialist Party - respond with rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, works are love and not good reasons. If someone believes that it is still possible to find Catalan society - time will tell us - it would be good if he started to correct his political practice in this particular area and gave Catalan civil society the capacity to manage these resources in agreement with the Catalan Government. Today you have the opportunity to correct it. We are convinced and will insist on this battle and, if it is not possible today, on the handling of the third sector bill we will put it on the table. Our third sector demands this and it is fair to defend it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as can be said, I rise to this rostrum to position the Galego Nationalist Block in a favourable way to this proposal for a law which Mr Campuzano has just brilliantly defended, the proposal for a law on territorialisation of the performance of 0.7 % of the IRPF intended for other purposes of social interest. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Campuzano has already said, before today different initiatives have been defended - non-legislative proposals, motions, etc. - some of them presented by our party, the Galego Nationalist Block. In the years that we have had this debate some things have progressed, but unfortunately in all the issues that have been approved, timid, we have met with the certile opposition of the central government to hand over to the autonomous communities this part of the IRPF which, on the other hand, is voluntary on the part of taxpayers. They do so many times thinking of collaborating with those associations closest to their territory, but because of the state's distribution of the proceeds, this is not possible. The Government, with its certile attitude, is not only preventing the autonomous communities from fully exercising their competences in the field of social services - which is an interference in those competences - but, as we have already denounced on other occasions, is acting in a discriminatory manner with many organizations working in the world of social or environmental associationism. We therefore take advantage of this proposal made to us by the Convergence Group in order to re-express our position in favour of the consideration. Its admission to procedure and subsequent approval may be the way in which the Government will definitely act not only in the direction that we demand from the political groups that we have presented the various initiatives, but also in the direction of the multiple judicial rulings that have already been handed down and that Mr Campuzano has quoted, because at this time not only has this issue been discussed in the Congress of Deputies reaching certain agreements in different initiatives, but it has also been discussed in the courts with a favourable position of justice at the request of the Autonomous Communities, as is the case in Catalonia. Therefore, I repeat what I said at the beginning: we will vote in favour of this initiative because in the Galego Nationalist Block we agree with the demand that is being made. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the same Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bosch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again faced with a case in which the largest nationalist party in the House does not understand what is happening. And by saying the largest nationalist party, I mean the People's Party, the Spanish nationalist party, the radical nationalist party - it proves again and again - and the government party. This party opposes proposals such as that of Mr Campuzano, of Convergence i Unió, a proposal that could strengthen the idea of a nation that the People's Party might have, and instead they do everything possible to make arguments that fuel our positions in favour of the independence of Catalonia. You'll know what you're doing; I think someone should tell you. The facts are very clear: it is decided that people can allocate 0.7% - first 0.52% and then 0.7% - of the IRPF for social purposes. From here, collecting what emanates from the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia and the law of 2008 - which makes it very clear - it is clear that this 0.7% should be managed from the autonomous community, because the competences in social issues are very clear, and in the case of Catalonia of course. From here the People's Party and some previous government basically engage in non-compliance with the law, the letter and the philosophy of the issue we highlight. But it also imposes a certain nature on the entities receiving such aid for social purposes - NGOs or social entities - i.e. that they have to have legal personality in the state registry in Madrid of associations or entities, when many of them do not want that, they do not want it or have ever been asked to do so, but they are obliged to be federated in order to have access to such aid. In other words, entities are obliged to become very Spanish entities too when they have not been raised or wished to do so at times. We will vote in favour of this initiative because it attempts to correct a manifest injustice, although it is an initiative that we see as autonomous. But we see with surprise and amazement that even the largest Spanish nationalist party in this House, which is the People's Party, does not understand that, according to their convictions, this autonomous measure can do them good. The result is that Catalonia does not manage this 0.7% for social purposes. The result is that the Spanish Government directly centralizes all these types of competences that do not belong to it, and even obliges many NGOs and entities to become entities of Spanish scope, when they do not want to. Maybe that's a push, an idea, a Spanish nationalist action, but that doesn't mean he's smart. It offers us arguments that we say there is little to do in this context and in this autonomous framework, and in the end it causes that 0.7% which should be devoted to social purposes to contribute to that 50, 60 or 70 % of independenceists, to the growth in Catalonia of that social majority which is in favour of seeking another new and own state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Bosch. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I speak very briefly from the seat to determine the position of our group in relation to the proposed law proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. It is a recurring initiative, an initiative that we have discussed in different formats for quite a long time, which means that we are talking about an unresolved issue. There's the bad news. It is not that the initiative is old, but that the issue is not resolved. And why is there no solution to a question on which it seems clear where the competition lies? Competition in the social sphere is in the hands of the autonomous communities, and political logic says that these resources should be managed by the autonomous communities. That's what political logic says. Economic logic, efficiency and effectiveness in human resources management, also says it must be managed by the autonomous communities. There are a total of just over 200 million euros a year, and Catalonia will have around 50 million euros a year. Why won't the Generalitat of Catalonia manage them when it's hers? I believe that the government must already give serious thought to this issue and give the autonomous communities the famous 0.7 % of the IRPF, so that each institution will do what it has to do. It is also true that this issue is not alien to certain governmental organizations at the state level, which I imagine make it easier for them to manage resources centrally than to do so at the decentralized level. Therefore, apart from the Government, these institutions must also be called upon to respect the rules of the game and the competitive frameworks that exist in the Spanish State. Let us do this, because if not Mr Campuzano threatens to continue with this issue in the next parliamentary term and I believe that it is no longer worth discussing, but that it must be resolved. Apart from this question, the IRPF in the case of Euskadi, as you know, is a concerted tribute to autonomous regulation and, therefore, this 0.7% we manage from the autonomous institutions. Therefore, in order not to understand that this is an interference, our group is going to abstain from voting on this initiative, but bearing in mind that what we want is for legality to be complied with and for human resources to be managed as efficiently and effectively as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u49	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal for a law invites us to territorialize the expenditure for social purposes that is financed by the 0.7% of the IRPF. That is, in colloquial terms, so that we can all understand each other, what he proposes is that what is collected in each autonomous community with that 0.7% of the IRPF be spent entirely in that same autonomous community. It must be recognized that the previous speakers have made very skilful defences of this position, because in the background it is a position that is difficult to defend when analysed in detail. In those previous defenses they have forgotten what is essential, and what is essential is what this money is for, what is the end of this money. The end of this money is to combat social evils associated in general with poverty, social exclusion; therefore, money will have to go where those evils are concentrated. It's as obvious as that. These social ills - poverty, social exclusion - are spread unevenly throughout the territory; they do not understand provincial or autonomous boundaries; they are spread unevenly. But in order for this proposal to be logical, the distribution of poverty and social exclusion would have to be proportional to what is collected in 0.7 % of the IRPF. If that were the case, if when a community collects a lot in 0.7% it has a lot of poverty, this proposal would make sense, there would be no problem. But as soon as you think intuitively you see it doesn't make any sense; it's exactly the other way around. What can be expected is exactly the opposite. In those communities where more than 0.7% of the IRPF is collected - it is associated with income at the end of the day - it can be expected that the social problems that are being tried to combat with these funds are precisely smaller. We live in a country - we all know that, ladies and gentlemen - with enormous territorial inequalities. There are communities, such as where Mr Campuzano has been elected or where I have been elected, the community of Catalonia, the Community of Madrid, the Basque Country, Navarre, with higher per capita income levels than the European Union average. And there are other communities, such as Extremadura, Andalusia or the Canary Islands, with levels far below the European average. Inequality is also seen in unemployment rates, poverty and social exclusion. Does it make sense in one country so let's say that everyone stays with their own things, that the collection stays where it is collected if the collection is in one place and the evils that these funds intend to fight are in another? In Progress Union and Democracy, we don't see it that way. Basically, the debate is always the same. There are groups that give priority to territories, communities, competitive debates, and there are other groups that give priority to people. It is not Catalonia that suffers poverty either Madrid or Andalusia. They are people with faces, names and surnames, who are more concentrated in certain territories, who are more concentrated in certain areas and therefore have all the logic - and I, as a Member of Madrid, defend it by representing the general interest, like all of us - that the funds are concentrated where the evils that are intended to be fought are concentrated, regardless of where those resources have been collected. To defend the opposite, to defend this old nationalist claim has a very unpleasant implication, no matter how much one wants to ignore: to give priority to the social evils that are concentrated in the territory of oneself, regardless of whether there are other more serious ones in the neighboring territory. That is why it is surprising that these types of proposals sometimes find the support of groups that define themselves as progressive. This is the essence of the debate. I could finish my argument here and it would be perfectly understood why my group is going to vote no to this bill, but other secondary issues associated with this fundamental issue are also being invoked and we do not want to avoid discussing them. One such issue is whether the calls have to be national, something that has emerged in previous interventions. We see many advantages for these calls to be made on a national basis. For example, to be able to analyse social needs as a whole; to be able to analyse social problems throughout the territory. For example, it is important to treat similar needs in a similar way. If there is a family or a person who is going through a bad situation in community A and another similar situation in community B, in a national call they can be given similar treatment to their similar evils. We also believe that they can be more competitive calls. And there is also the question of the non-governmental entities, the entities of the third sector that legitimately want to carry out policies throughout the territory. Imagine an initiative against child poverty throughout Spain. What are we asked with this alternative model? That such an entity presents itself to seventeen calls and on one site is granted it and on another not, on one more resources are given and on another not? How could it carry out this policy equitably throughout the national territory with fragmented calls such as those that arise? We believe that it would be a more inefficient and unjust system than the current one. On the subject of this, we should remember that we are talking about fully state funds, the resources we are talking about come in their entirety from the State's General Budgets, there are no autonomous contributions. However, at the Social Affairs Sectoral Conference, communities have a role to play in determining the priority needs to be met by these actions. Finally, the debate also has a legal aspect that we do not want to avoid either. We are told that there are rulings of the Constitutional Court, there are rulings of the Supreme Court, and listening to those interveners one would believe that those rulings say that what this bill says is done, but it is not. Some judgements, such as one of the Supreme Court, question a specific summons because it was not accompanied by an economic memory, worse it does not go to the bottom of these matters. And the rulings of the Constitutional Court partially estimate remedies, but what is said in those rulings is that there is a State competence to develop social action programmes throughout the national territory and that the State is entitled to fix the amount, the object and the final beneficiaries. Check out, amount, object and last beneficiaries: how much you dedicate yourself to, what you dedicate yourself to and who you dedicate yourself to. The only question is that the autonomous communities have to participate in the management, that they have to participate in implementing this which has been decided at the state level, in the processing, but in no way does it imply that the expenses have to be territorialized, as we are being asked here, as if it were a legal mandate. However, at this point we really see the most positive of the CiU initiative. We believe that this initiative presents a genuine political shift from what CiU's position has been throughout this legislature, because we believe that from now on they will be very respectful of the rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. We welcome with joy this change in CiU's position that we are sure it will lead in the future to respect sentences that have to do with Spanish education in Catalonia or to respect sentences that have to do with the non-conclusion of secessionist referendums. But, appreciating this change in attitude from CiU so positive as regards this concrete initiative, I insist that our vote will be not because we do not think about the territories but about the people who live in those territories. This money is for social spending associated with social exclusion and has to go to those who are going through situations of poverty and social exclusion, regardless of the area where they live, so that similar dramatic situations have a similar treatment throughout the national territory. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the IU Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mrs Ortiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here again addressing what is already a classic, the debate on the territorialisation of 0.7 of the social box of the IRPF; a debate that is presented today in the format of a bill, but which we have brought to this House various groups, not only Convergence i Unió, but also Esquerra and Initiative. This debate has dragged him not so far into this and the previous legislature, but we could even talk about decades. Nor is it a question of the deputies or of this Congress, or of the Generalitat de Catalunya, but there are already rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court that endorse precisely the need to bet on this model of fiscal territorialization and decentralization. In a judgment they were already urged to rectify ministerial orders, precisely by marking the limits of competence, which in the case of social assistance or the management and protection of natural spaces are very clear. The judgment itself states that these are exclusive powers and, therefore, the State must greatly limit its capacity to act and also its capacity to grant remedies. The sentence made this very clear: it is the autonomous communities that allocate these resources. In fact, this is an issue that does not arise from the institutions, it is Catalan civil society itself; the entities of the third social and environmental sector are asking us, at this point already with indignation, to adapt the criterion to the needs and the reality that their centralism does not allow them to see. Moreover, I believe that this type of debate illustrates well the causes that have led us to the current crisis of the territorial model, something that seems increasingly irreconcilable and that you, with chapters like today's, show once again that you have neither the will nor the ability, I would say, to intelligently address the complexity of what is the most plurinational state of the European Union. Obsection, denial of plural reality, institutional disloyalty, misunderstanding of what is a composite State with different levels of self-government, centralism, fiscal authoritarianism with which we have been delighted, immobilism, impermeability and inflexibility, all this is what has been received from your Government and also from previous governments in this chapter, perhaps in a more sibilian way, but in the end with the same result. I think that if we looked for the causes of the current fatigue and exhaustion on the current model of autonomy, these would be precisely in these kinds of responses to the debates like the one we are proposing today. The fact that it has not been resolved after twenty years indicates incapacity, insensitivity and irresponsibility and provokes indignation, detachment and, I would say more and more, more democratic rupture and, as Mr Bosch said, they have more and more independenceists precisely because of debates like today's. You don't offer solutions, you offer problems. We are talking not about management problems to the Generalitat or to the Members of this House, we are talking about problems that you create to social entities that work in communities, that work with the sick, with older people, with people who suffer social exclusion. Those are the entities that suffer precisely the consequences. What is the purpose of this bill and what we have been proposing for years? It asks for some common sense: to manage the collection of the IRPF's social box in accordance with its objective of granting proximity, democratising taxation and contributing to the taxpayer's responsibility and link with social investment, as well as to distribute the expenditure in compliance with the division of powers. It is something that should be simple in a State that for so long, as you say, has been composed and has different levels of autonomy, so it is an issue that should have been resolved. Why is it positive to territorialize? Firstly, on a question of proximity. We are talking about a box for the taxpayer to feel its capacity for impact and decision on resources. We are talking about an incentive to co-responsibility, which is achieved with the proximity of recipients and taxpayers, that citizens see that marking a box marks the difference and can contribute to the improvement of their environment. That's a key element we understand. A second issue is the linkage. The decoupling of income and expenditure from this box has created deeply unfair situations, which has resulted in disengagement for taxpayers. For example, Catalonia marks the 0.7 box well above the average; it is not a matter of wealth, Mr.Anchuelo, it is that it marks 10 points above the average of people who mark the social box. If this subsequently has no impact on how it impacts, it also generates detachment, which is something that has to be taken into account in a fair policy, but also effective at fiscal level. The lack of territorialization and the completely unjust and unrelated distribution, not only of the collection but also of the criteria of population, Mr Anchuelo, generates the problem that the distribution has nothing to do with the needs and the objective population. We see cases that are a real waste of time. That is, why in populations where there are, for example, far more sick, these entities do not receive these resources proportionally. This has to do with justice and equity geared towards the outcome as well. Another argument is the effectiveness of resource management, which is another key element. The non-territorialization of resources makes many organizations that have magnificent projects of social assistance or custody of the territory - I believe that here the issue of the environment and proximity are fundamental - and that are better inserted in neighborhoods and communities than others of state level precisely because of their close nature are excluded. You launch a false populism of territorial equality, but what undermines the fairness and effectiveness of services, what undermines a fair distribution is the lack of precisely territorialization. We are talking about 0.7% of the IRPF, they cannot claim that this percentage, divided by criteria based on collection, is against solidarity. Let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen, he has neither feet nor head. We defend territorial and social solidarity and you defend centralism and social regressivity, which is what you have demonstrated with your tax reform. A fourth element is transparency. Proximity management in granting grants also has an impact on transparency by linking organizations to projects. Because it is difficult to find criteria for understanding, if not for political reasons, why organizations providing assistance to persons with disabilities or mentally ill people receive much more resources depending on where they are located and not on the number of people they care about. That has a difficult explanation, unless you say that you want to use those resources for something else but not precisely for social assistance. In short, the refusal to process this bill is only explained by centralism and to prevent citizens from deciding not even the destination of the taxpayer's social box. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortiz. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a recurring issue as we once again debate the allocation of the collection of the IRPF for social purposes. If my memory does not fail, this is the ninth time that we are dealing here in Parliament. On this occasion, what the Catalan Parliamentary Group proposes today goes beyond and is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the territorialisation of the performance of 0.7 % of the IRPF for other social interest purposes, including those of an environmental nature. [[Convergence and Union]] This time, to justify this, the proposing group mentions, among other issues, that the administrative structures for the exercise of the same powers cannot be doubled, stating that those with the powers must have the resources to exercise them. Curious question, at least, raised by the group that supports the Government of the Generalitat, which never obviated these duplications, is more increased and now even feeds them. To this end, he spoke of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court; but it was obvious that that same court had also said that the State could not be deprived of the exercise of its exclusive powers because of the existence of a competence, even if it was also exclusive, of the autonomous community. He refers to those reserved for the State in article 149 of the Spanish Constitution entrusting the general organs of the State with the achievement of the general interest of the nation and those of a supra-Community character. With regard to this article 149, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment 239/2002 of 11 December, with reference to judgment 61/1987 of 20 March, points out that by its content the State is allowed to regulate the basic conditions guaranteeing equality. More recently, the Constitutional Court ruling 46/2007 of 1 March states that the general interest will be the predominant title for determining the preferential application of a State competence to the detriment of that of the autonomous community. Although I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposing group when it presented this initiative, which was nothing more and nothing less than on 21 December 2011, made mention of other judgments to base its argument. I refer to those of the Constitutional Court 178/2011 of 8 November, concerning the regulatory bases for the granting of subsidies subject to the general scheme of subsidies in the area of social services, family and disability. And that of the Supreme Court of 16 December 2011, in relation to the bases and the call for grants for the realization of cooperation and social volunteering from the tax allocation of the IRPF. In this regard, the Constitutional Court considers the regulation of the central aspects of the grant scheme to be part of the sphere of State competence, while it places within the autonomous competence the issue of its management, i.e. the processing, resolution and payment of subsidies, as well as the regulation of the procedure corresponding to all these aspects. [[object and purpose of the aid, its technical modality, beneficiaries and essential access requirements]] The Supreme Court, for its part, in reference to this text of the Constitutional Court, considers that it reaffirms the doctrine already invoked by the Generalitat with regard to its exclusivity as regards the establishment of the bases for the distribution and control of aid, even if the State can determine the amount. That is expressly stated in the final part of the sixth ground of law. Consequently, the judgments do not say what the proposing group says, but the contrary, as I have just told them. What is really proposed with this initiative is that the territorialization of the funds be carried out according to the collection that in the territory of each autonomous community is obtained by this concept, and it cannot be said without being false, ladies and gentlemen, that this is what the above-mentioned judgments of November and December 2011 say, because if those judgments were to say what the CiU Parliamentary Group intends, it would prevent the IRPF from being an instrument of state solidarity since it is aimed at the collection of taxes for the satisfaction of collective needs through public expenditure and all citizens have a duty to contribute to financing these needs, although with what we are seeing these days not all have or have been so clear that they have contributed to meeting collective needs. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are in favour of a situation that respects the content of constitutional jurisprudence; however, that is not the objective of the proposed law that we are debating today, much less. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that it was a socialist government, that of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, which decided to approve that the percentage to be received by the autonomous communities would increase from 0.52% to 0.7%. This meant, for example, that EUR 134 million in 2008 should be allocated to EUR 190 million in 2009, that is to say, EUR 56 million more, in order to help improve the situation of socially at risk groups and to consolidate in some cases and to sustain in others organisational structures in several areas. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in September 2012 a non-law proposal was debated, also from CiU, where the Government was urged to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court of November 2011 and my group voted in favour, as it could not be otherwise, because it was a matter of demanding the enforcement of Constitutional judgments and so was my colleague Sánchez Amor, who then told you, as now, that you were misinterpreting the sentence because it is not the same thing to transfer the collection as territorializing the expenditure. If these policies are a priority for the Government of Catalonia, of the Generalitat, it may, in the use of its full budgetary autonomy, allocate to them the resources it deems appropriate from the revenue collected by its taxes or from the autonomous part of the IRPF. One thing is that money must reach the autonomous communities in order for them to proceed to their management - that is, in the words of the Constitutional Court, the processing, resolution and payment of subsidies, as well as the regulation of the procedure corresponding to all these aspects - and another very different question is that the distribution must be made exclusively according to what was collected in each territory. Where, then, would solidarity be between territories? Ladies and gentlemen, the distribution of 0.7 % of the IRPF collected for other purposes of social interest must take into account criteria of need, not of collection, that is solidarity, equality and fairness. Let me tell you something that can be very illustrative: when the State Council of Social Action NGOs shows that the priority programmes for receiving subsidies of 0.7% are emergency programmes aimed at addressing the basic needs of people in poverty or programmes aimed at preventing and combating poverty and social exclusion, what they are thinking from the State Council is that they are trying to alleviate with that 0.7% poverty in our country, throughout Spain. Listen: yesterday, in my province, in Cuenca, we had breakfast with a report by Caritas that said that poverty reached 36.7% of the total and asked politicians to make efforts to alleviate it, because poverty does not know of misunderstood territorialization, that funds are distributed according to what was collected in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia or in the Autonomous Community of Castilla-La Mancha. Today the media echoed that Castilla-La Mancha is where there are the newest poor in Spain. Can you imagine that with the brutal cuts that have been made by Cospedal and Rajoy in my province and in my region now I arrived and told my countrymen that we support CiU's proposal, which seems to want to eat apart, to eat a bigger piece of the little pie that can help the most vulnerable? I'm done, Madam President. My group defends, so that there is no doubt either here or in Catalonia, the following. First, the enforcement of judgments: that according to what the Constitutional Court says, in the field of State competence the central aspects of the subsidy scheme are regulated, the object and purpose of the aid, the technical modality of the aid, the beneficiaries and the essential requirements of access; and, in the autonomous area, the management of the aid, that is, the processing, resolution and payment of the subsidies, as well as the regulation of the procedure corresponding to all aspects such as those mentioned above, which is the Gordian knot of the judgments. Secondly, that in the design of a system consistent with judgments, an agreement of the autonomous communities is reached at the Sectoral Conference on Social Affairs with the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies and in consensus with the social organizations that reconcile the rights of these organizations in the autonomic and state sphere. But, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill has nothing to do with all this, but with another issue that we do not agree with: that territorialization be done according to what is agreed in each community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. For the People's Group, Mrs Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today CiU is presenting to us an initiative that we have repeatedly discussed in this House and in it they are calling for territorialisation of the tax allocation of the IRPF for social interest purposes and they are also calling for the total collection of the amount obtained by this concept in each autonomous community to be transferred in full to the same autonomous community to subsidise activities of social interest. We have clearly stated our position on this issue on many occasions and it is the same one that we have repeatedly explained and that will lead us today to vote against this proposal for a law. The first and most important reason I want to explain here is that it lacks the slightest common sense. Our position can be summed up in a single sentence: the solidarity of the Spanish cannot be territorialised, Mr Campuzano, this is the first and most important reason. Because, ladies and gentlemen of CiU, we are talking above all about a humanitarian issue, here no one has talked about people, no one has talked about needs, no one has talked about the involvement of an entire society that when it marks that cross in its declaration of income what it wants is to show its solidarity with the most unprotected collectives in society, with the most vulnerable collectives, and is not thinking whether those collectives, if those most needy people are in their autonomous community or are in any other part of the territory, whether Spanish or outside our borders. I ask you for a little bit of attention, Mr de CiU, because after the VIII parliamentary term, the IX and the X follow you to fixed pinion and to Spanish society I believe that you do not worry about your nationalist and competitive obsessions; what worries Spanish society, those who mark that cross in the declaration of rent, is that this solidarity aid actually reaches the people who need it most and as effectively as possible. The approach you are making to this issue certainly seems foolish to us, and by reviewing your interventions - and you have repeated it again here today - you point out that as the Catalans mark that cross and contribute 25% of what is raised by that solidarity, that 25% has to be spent entirely in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, which lacks absolutely the slightest common sense. That is, that, according to you, Catalan society when marking these crossings only wants to be in solidarity with the poor of its autonomous community. Man, that is not a receipt, we are convinced that it is not, because Catalan society sure has a much broader concept of solidarity than Catalan nationalist groups have, I am convinced. It seems that what they are worried about is that fewer resources will come from social solidarity to Catalonia than the Catalans do, when what we should be discussing here is that this aid will be distributed effectively, that it will reach people who are really in dire need. The second reason that I would like to put forward and which none of the speakers has said in this rostrum is that our position, that of the People's Parliamentary Group, fully coincides with that expressed by the third sector organisations, by the NGOs, which are the ones that, with the resources that are obtained by this allocation of the IRPF tax, finance programmes aimed at combating child abuse, support for the disabled, assistance for drug addicts and prisoners, in short, very vulnerable groups that are as worthy of protection in Catalonia as in any part of the Spanish territory. I believe that what bothers you, the Catalan nationalist groups, is the word Spanish Red Cross, especially the Spanish word, or Spanish Caritas. That's what it looks like to them. In short, this aid has to go where it is needed and this platform, which brings together all these social action NGOs, sent a letter to the President of the Government, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, in 2008, expressing their frontal opposition to the territorialization of the IRPF's tax allocation. It was expressed by the entities of the third sector themselves, the NGOs that carry out very important work in social assistance with altruism and dedication! And as the platform expresses in the letter itself, by placing the social needs of citizens - I quote literally - in the first place, those needs that are our first objective, it favors the generation of common social policies at the state level, without territorial or collection criteria. They add that the redistributive function of income and wealth is an essential function of the social, democratic and legal State that makes a more just and equal society real and possible. This is not said by my group, by the NGO platform, but, of course, in my parliamentary group we can no longer agree with this position. Ladies and gentlemen, subsidies to third-sector entities through 0.7 % of the IRPF are an indispensable tool for social solidarity. We are therefore as enthusiastic about the work of these NGOs as we are of this House. We want strong and powerful organisations that are able to meet the major social challenges we face. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that this distribution is not done arbitrarily, which has not been pointed out in this rostrum either, but that this distribution is agreed at the sectoral conference with all the autonomous communities, including the Community of Catalonia, with absolute institutional loyalty and respect for the competences of the autonomous communities. Mr Campuzano mentioned in his speech that we might be tempted to cite the legal framework that has actually been modified, as you know, through Royal Decree-Law 7/2013. For I am going to fall into this temptation, because it seems to me very important to point out that in this royal decree of 2013 the title of competition is changed and the main novelty of this royal decree is that the programmes selected through the IRPF are sectorized with axes of action that are considered of priority social interest to allocate the resources of that 0.7 % of the IRPF, which are the socio-health care, the care of people with educational or job insertion needs and the promotion of citizen security and crime prevention. And with this new legal framework, Mr de Ciu, an effective response has been given to the demands of the sectors in which action is needed most urgently. The structure of protected groups has been replaced by priority axes of action that respond to a new framework that is constitutionally protected by the competences of the State. In addition, I would like to emphasize that this social policy led by the Government of the nation is compatible and absolutely compatible with any social policy that any autonomous community wants to carry out, is not incompatible. Once that legal and competitive debate has been resolved, let us focus on people, which is what really matters on this issue. Poverty and social exclusion have no flags or borders or belong to certain territories, let alone the solidarity of all Spaniards who mark this cross in their income declaration. The People's Parliamentary Group is indifferent to what territory these people need, what we want is to help them in the best possible way, and we think that the current regulation is the most appropriate to do so. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We do not believe in solidarity in the nationalist style, Mr Campuzano, we do not believe in that kind of solidarity, because that is transformed into precisely the opposite, into insolidarity with people. That is why we are going to vote against taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u57	We turn to item II of the agenda, on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on strengthening industry in Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr García Aegean has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, I would like to greet the president of the Institute of Engineering of Spain, Don Manuel Moreau, and the dean of the College of Engineers of Montes, Don José Carlos del Álamo, people who represent here today a very important sector of our society related to technological impulse and industrial development, and who have worked and will work to ensure that the measures we are debating today reach a good place. Ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago I was reviewing some publications and other notes on an interesting and very related issue that we are discussing here today, the industrial revolution and the hatred of machines. Arkwright invented his machinery for cotton yarn in 1770. At that time it has been estimated that there were some 7,900 people in England engaged in the textile production sector. The introduction of technological innovation such as this machine in this industry has from its beginning found strong opposition, because it threatened the way of life of the workers. Seventeen years later, however, in 1787, a parliamentary inquiry showed that the number of people employed in cotton yarn and fabric had risen from 7,900 to 320,000, representing an increase in employment of 4,400 %. This historical fact leads me to conclude two fundamental aspects. On the one hand, a first conclusion would be that it will not be possible to create stable and quality jobs if we fail to develop a strong and competitive industrial fabric in our country. An ecosystem of entrepreneurs and innovative companies will find it difficult to develop if we do not get a strong and stable industry to pull from them. The second conclusion I have come to is that it will only be possible to achieve a strong industry and create quality jobs through technological innovation. As has been the case in the past, employment will be created as a result of doing excellently what we are doing only well today. In our recent history we have cases in which what I have just stated has been endorsed. Let's look at the recently created - recently in relative terms - automobile industry in the United States in 1910. At that time, 140,000 people were employed in this sector. Ten years later, in 1920, with various technological improvements introduced and the associated reduction of production costs, the industry employed 250,000 people. After introducing new methods, to perfect this industry, ten years later, in 1930, the number of people employed amounted to 380,000. If we move forward in time, we see that in 1973 the number of employees in the industry rose by one million people, because in the same year 514,000 people worked in the aeronautical industry and another 393,000 in the production of electronic components. What I have just described has been happening in all the newly created industries as production methods were being refined and costs reduced. The Members of this House, from my humble point of view, must devote ourselves to strengthening the creation of new industries, to ensuring unity in terms of regulation for all of them and to defending the industrial interests of our country. Behind are other plans promoted by previous governments, in which billions of euros were spent on creating jobs that did not generate added value or develop new production methods or improve the conditions under which this work was carried out. I hope that all this will help us not to fall into the same mistakes in the future and, from now on, let us all work in the same direction. The People's Parliamentary Group, with this proposal, intends to support the Government in its industrial strengthening agenda. We believe that the ninety-six measures to ensure that the industry's weight in the gross domestic product becomes 20% are very accurate and relevant, and we want to help achieve it with all the means at our disposal. As you know, the Government of the People's Party has launched an economic policy based on a sound macroeconomic basis and geared towards strengthening and developing a strong, competitive, internationally-relevant industry based on the consolidation of public sector accounts. Industry can be a lever for the growth of the productive system and for boosting economic recovery and job creation. The industrial sector has room for manoeuvre to become one of the engines of our economy in the coming years, providing solutions to the main challenges facing our country. These specific measures, as they will have seen in the agenda for strengthening our industry, aim to stimulate demand for industrial goods with multiplier effect on the economy through specific programmes, programmes that are already available to citizens, such as the PIVE Plan or others that affect and increase demand for specific goods; aim to improve the competitiveness of key productive factors by reducing the costs associated with industrial activity, and to strengthen the stability and uniformity of the industrial regulatory framework through the implementation or elimination of unnecessary laws. It is very important because, just as we need to put resources on the table for our industries to promote innovation, it is also necessary to remove those bureaucratic obstacles that are holding back innovation. Special mention deserves the Patent Law that will be processed in this House, which will be one of the important reforms that will be addressed in this legislature to protect innovation. Or one of the most important: orienting Spain's influence capacity to its industrial interests. These are some of the lines that develop the ninety-six concrete measures, which are at your disposal, and which you will have been able to read, proposals for strengthening the industry in Spain. The current economic crisis has highlighted the importance of the role of industry as a generator of growth and employment, demonstrating that those countries with greater industrial weight in their gross domestic product have been more resilient to this adverse economic cycle by losing less employment, increasing their exports and thus contributing to counteracting the fall in domestic demand and improving their balance of payments. In the short term, the initiatives of this agenda will contribute to the growth of industrial gross value added, will create employment and will promote the improvement of the competitive position of the industrial fabric in Spain, while laying the groundwork for our industrial fabric to be able to adapt in the medium term to the new global challenges and changes that are already taking place as a result of the digital transition in our economy as a whole, creating new business opportunities, using the transformative power of technology to increase the competitiveness and productivity of our industrial fabric. In addition, as you know, the General Secretariat for Industry and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises will prepare an annual monitoring report on the extent to which the measures set out in this agenda are implemented. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have read in detail all the amendments that have been tabled since the opposition, both those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and those of Convergence and Unity and the Plural Left. After your detailed reading, I would like to tell you that we appreciate from our parliamentary group the constructive attitude of many of them, and I am convinced that with this attitude we will be able to work together to make this agenda a success. We propose to you to work together with the industrial sector of our country, to take this road map presented by the Government, to support today this non-legislative proposal with the favourable vote of all of us and to make a personal commitment on the part of all the spokesmen of this House to support the Government and the industrial sector in the implementation of these ninety-six measures. I would not like to end without transferring my support to the Bosal workers, with whom we are working from this parliamentary group to support them and try to ensure that this industry remains in Spain and continues to generate added value. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u59	Thank you very much, Mr García Aegean. To defend the amendments put forward by the groups, intervenes by the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left Mr Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, for our group the so-called agenda for strengthening the industrial sector in Spain is not the appropriate instrument for the industrial sector. Moreover, it will not help the industrial sector to become an engine of our economy. Firstly, because it does not have specific financial instruments or action plans. Therefore, it will not be a useful tool. Secondly - for us, most importantly - they continue to think that the revival of productive activity depends essentially on the fall in social and labour costs and, depending on this, try to increase exports. That is the completely opposite path that is needed for our industry. Beyond the name, it is also not a sustainable approach; on the contrary, it goes against the sustainability that any industrial proposal must have. Faced with this idea, our proposal aims to address what we believe to be the basis for the relaunch of productive activity in the Spanish State. Funding is essential for this. It is essential that industrial development can be financed once and for all. This radically changes the current concept of the financial system and implies the need for a public sector bank to bet on the real economy and not remain part of the productive economy. Ladies and gentlemen, private banking is not an NGO nor is it ever going to be, therefore, without a public bank it will be impossible for there to be a revival of industrial activity in this country. Moreover, as we denounce budget to budget, the deficit of investment in research and development is a burden that we continue to face. In addition, we have often denounced the energy model, which has the impact of any sustainable development of our industry. Finally, austerity policies have depressed and continue to depress domestic demand, so our group has tabled a real amendment to the whole. It is a replacement amendment because we are starting from different principles. You still think that by lowering labour costs we are going to be more competitive; we believe quite the opposite, that by lowering labour costs what we are getting is being less and less competitive. That is why we have tabled an amendment which has five elements that do respond to a real plan to relaunch and recover our industry. We plan for a global plan to reactivate the industry led by the public sector. Clearly, the private sector is not an NGO, and if there is no competitive public sector, there can be no comprehensive plan to reactivate the industry. In this sense, union participation, a new productive model, is key to progress. A new productive model that starts from employment, a quality job, a job that can reactivate domestic demand, but which is also based on real technological innovation, investment, and environmental sustainability and the strengthening of the internal market. That is the first point in our amendment and is the basis of our industrial proposal. In the same vein, we propose a second point, which raises convergence with Europe in public investment, research, development and innovation; creating a public bank is essential and is our third proposal. If there is no new financial system - do not deceive us - there will be no financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, there will be no possibility of financing industry. A fourth point is the quality and cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises to undertake industrial projects of a certain size and new markets can be opened. And the last point is an energy planning that bets on renewable technologies - those to which you have declared war since the beginning of your management - that reduces the dependence of the outside world and that considers electricity supply as an essential public service that introduces transparency in the formation of prices in the energy market, which gives you allergies. As you can see, these are alternative proposals, proposals that are committed to sustainable industry and the future of the economy of this country. It is clear that it confronts his proposal. We are convinced that they will not accept it, and that is why we will move this proposal through a non-legislative proposal that we will be presenting in this House in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mrs Riera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter into the content of the non-legislative proposal presented to us by the People's Parliamentary Group and in the defence of our amendment, let me make a few more general comments. First of all, it is necessary to remember once again the unequivocal and forceful commitment of my parliamentary group to industry. As always, we share this industrial bet, which is today a clearly European bet, and which we have applied since Catalonia. In defining industrial policy, the role of the autonomous communities is relevant and irrevocable. We understand that there is a need for policies in favour of industry looking at Europe from the point of view of consensus and respect for competition in this area. In my group, we believe that the stake must be for a modern, sustainable, surely cross-cutting industry and, above all, a competitive and open industry. This requires new tools to serve industrial competitiveness, new tools to move from more fragile competitiveness, earned through wages, to stronger competitiveness based on innovation and value added. The value of industry is economic, ladies and gentlemen, but it is also social, because industry is training, industry is social balance, it helps to recover the value and stability of the middle classes, and industrial occupation will not be what it was in quantitative terms, but the economic and social value of industrial occupation is and will be very relevant. It must be stressed in this context that the concept of the new industry we are betting on goes beyond conventional parameters and incorporates the digital industry or the so-called green industry. That is why today we must bet on an industry capable of adapting to change, a competitive industry that has one of its most important axes in innovation. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, an industrial road map, but from consensus, and above all a series of concrete measures are needed to boost competitiveness and strengthen the determinants of industrial competitiveness, and I highlight energy among them. Let me stress, in this context, that there is a very relevant industrial policy in the autonomous communities, not only because of their competences, but also because of the value of proximity, the greater effectiveness, the value of knowledge of territorial specificity itself, the industrial fabric itself that requires specific attention and, often also, differentiated measures. In this context, we insist, as we have done on other occasions and in other debates, on the importance and effectiveness of the territorialization of funds and resources for reindustrialization programmes and, in particular, those affecting SMEs. Secondly, with regard to the content of the non-legislative proposal, while we largely share the explanatory statement, it seems to us that the objectives pursued, and to which the Government is urged, are extremely generalistic. At the time, we have already expressed our support for the agenda, but it is a support that is not free from nuanced, because even sharing more general objectives of the agenda, we are concerned with certain risks relevant to its implementation, for example, the risk of applying the principle of market unity, to which my group strongly opposes for both competitive and economic reasons. [[The lady]] At the time we said that the agenda seemed too broad and ambitious to us, something that has the risk of wanting to cover so much that it will then be diluted, and we also said that it was late, the last year of the legislature, when industry should be a priority from the very beginning. To this non-legislative proposal we have tabled an amendment which seeks, to the extent possible, to go into more detail and to further limit the axes of action and the priorities of the agenda. First, we focus on the need for a specific plan for SMEs. SMEs are today a very important part of the industrial fabric. They have been the most affected by the crisis and require special attention. Our group has already tabled a motion, also adopted by the Group of the European People's Party, in which we urged the Government to present a competitiveness programme for small and medium-sized enterprises. We would like, in this context, even if we have not specified it in the amendment, to recognize the role of the autonomous communities, both in terms of competence and proximity, in defining the plan and in managing resources. Secondly, aware of the impossibility of covering and implementing all measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u63	Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u64	... it is necessary - I conclude, Madam President - to prioritize those that impact on decisive competitiveness factors, such as energy, which to date has not helped to improve costs; on the contrary - let us remember the situation of cogeneration or the current situation of interruptibility - and not to forget the factor of innovation as a axis of competitiveness. Similarly, industrial projects must be part of European funds and programmes, such as the next Juncker plan. Finally - I conclude, Madam President - and no less important - for my group, which is very relevant - coordination between ministries is as important as coordination between public administrations and, above all, with the autonomous communities. Strict respect for competition is essential. The autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen, play a decisive role in industrial policy; they do and must do industrial policy, and this must be done not only because of the competences they have - I insist - but also because of the value of knowledge, proximity and the effectiveness of their industrial policies. For this reason, consensus is essential. We hope that the People's Party will share these proposals and principles and be able to incorporate this amendment into its legislative proposal, which my group will in this case vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now three years since the implementation of the labour reform, and all that has been achieved is to precarious working conditions without recovering the 2011 employment levels. They have opted for wage devaluation and their priority has not been to change the productive model; they have abandoned industry. According to the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2014, there are 148,700 less employed; and in January 2015, 225,717 less industry affiliates than in 2011. According to the latest Dirce data published by the INE, 19,638 companies in the industrial sector have been destroyed since 2011 in Spain. The year 2014 ended, for industrial production, in a negative way; with that of December it has accumulated three consecutive falls in monthly terms, which results in an annual decrease of 0,9 %. Therefore, as the data show, there is a serious structural problem of loss of productive tissue in our country. In a favourable macroeconomic context, such as the current one, it is worrying that recovery does not reach the entire industrial sector. Without a doubt, we need a strong industrial base to underpin economic growth and employment generation. But that is not enough to say, but must be programmed, budgeted and measures developed to achieve it. In short, a comprehensive industrial policy strategy is required, a policy to which the People's Party has renounced nothing more than the start of the legislature. They despised and did not implement the Comprehensive Industrial Policy Plan 2020, which was approved by the Socialist Government in November 2010, with a budget until 2015, agreed with the social actors, with representatives of the industrial fabric and with the autonomous communities; it collected 124 actions, and three years later the People's Party presented the so-called agenda without a timetable and without a budget. They have just approved the 2015 budget, there is no mention of this agenda, and they have not adopted any of the amendments we have tabled to strengthen the industry. The fact that today the People's Party, in the last part of the parliamentary term, presents us with an initiative calling for the scheduling of the actions contained in this agenda, the only thing that is to be confirmed is the abandonment and abandonment of the Government in industrial policy throughout the parliamentary term. Without deadlines and without budget, the agenda only becomes an improvised media resource of mere intentions. [[The Lord]] In addition, it has not had the cooperation of the competent autonomous communities in the field of industry and employment. The agenda therefore does not articulate a coherent and coordinated policy that prevents duplication of effort, ensures fiscal harmonisation and, efficiently, ensures a strong industrial fabric in the different territories. It does not respond to the deindustrialization and depopulation that is taking place in our country. Many companies have already managed, with public aid, to settle down, and now close - or intend to close - for the interest of being located in new territories that will allow them new advantages, causing the deindustrialisation of areas of high industrial tradition and a very negative impact on the economy and employment of the area. This is the case, for example, of the Bosal company in Sagunto. The reality is that we live in a context where there are still many citizens who fear losing their jobs, and many others who have already lost it and who fear not finding a new one. That is the reality of the people and not another. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists agree that industry must be strengthened in order to generate employment, and they cannot waste another minute; they have already wasted enough time. We must support the existing industry, but given the loss of business in recent years, and the de-industrialisation to which many of the territories that make up our country are subject, this is not enough. It is necessary to bet on the creation of new companies to generate new jobs in the coming years, in addition to modernising traditional industrial activity to make it more productive and intensive in technology and knowledge. It is necessary to carry out a medium- and long-term industrial policy strategy, which makes the location of high-value-added companies in our territory competitive and the payment of taxes in our country. This is a great challenge that we face and in which safety, the training of workers, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, in short, knowledge, must be key to achieving it. This cannot be done by the Government alone; it requires the commitment of all administrations with competence in this field and of the sectors and actors involved. For this reason, we have proposed a modification amendment calling for the development of an action plan for reindustrialisation, capable of contributing to strong, sustainable and high-quality employment-generating economic and social growth; agreed with the autonomous communities and social and economic actors; in line with the European agenda and in line with sectoral reality; and containing specific, time-bound measures with a budget allocation to incorporate innovation into the industrial fabric, promote business dynamism and improve productivity. We also propose an annual evaluation that is essential for analysing the extent of the results and the achievement of the objectives. In short, and in conclusion, we ask you for a concrete, consensual action plan, in which all the actors involved feel committed, coordinated and budgeted, with deadlines and with a budget, something that is not happening at the moment. With our amendments we do not intend to start a process again, but to correct it, complement it and turn it into a real stake for the industry and for the future of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Mr Tardà, on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are talking about strengthening industrial development, talking about economic recovery, talking about rationality and economic and industrial coordination. Well, I'll tell you about other realities today. You are unable to plant against multinationals who relocate without any kind of social responsibility, even if these transnational companies have received public subsidies, low-interest public credits, multiple benefits from all administrations, etc. The question is, where is rationality? It doesn't exist. There are only two victims: on the one hand, workers and, on the other, industrial desertification. However, there is another reality: the lack of planning and coordination, when not institutional disloyalty or dirty war. Check out, Anovo Euroterminal, a company of L-Hospitalet de Llobregat, a leading company dedicated to the repair of mobile phones with more than a hundred workers, on the street. [[shows a poster in Catalan]] And you know why? Because in this company - I repeat, a company that has developed technology - now there is someone who has decided from Madrid - Anovo Central and Orange, Orange attention - delocalize and recentralize production in Madrid. All of the company's activity, born - I repeat - in L - Hospitallet de Llobregat, relocated to Madrid and the authorities looking elsewhere. What's the point of this decapitalization? What's the point of this recentralization of Orange's hand, I repeat? Had we not remained, from the Spanish administration as well, that it was committed for Barcelona and its metropolitan area to become a reference pool in all that concerns the new technologies related to mobile telephony? Doesn't the Mobile World Congress take place in Barcelona? What is the purpose of this attack allowed by the Spanish administration, and perhaps encouraged from Madrid? What's the silent operation behind all this? Does it stimulate the mobile phone sector in Catalonia? Is this the silent operation? We urge you to move, do not allow, do not tolerate or stop facilitating this irrationality. We also want to appeal to all the workers, to the Spanish citizens. We Catalans have been very supportive I myself from this rostrum have called for solidarity with the Madrid workers of Coca-Cola. [[Show the same sign]] I believe that we have shown our active solidarity; what we are now trying to do is to show solidarity from Madrid, because the cause of the Madrid workers is the cause of the Catalan workers. No one can question this axiom. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Take the bull by the horns and do not allow this wild and irrational relocation. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] This is our call. So... [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, for the ninth time you are coming to this House with an initiative whose aim is more advertising and electoral than that of addressing an important substantive issue, such as the industrial issue, as it must be addressed. We can even agree with most of the parliamentary groups that strengthening and supporting industry can be the right and necessary way out of the crisis with some solvency and guarantees, from the Basque Group we are fully convinced of this. It is true that even the European Union understands that industrial policy, including energy, must be a lever for economic growth and employment. Where is the problem then, gentlemen of the People's Party? The problem is that these matters are not simple and cannot be considered outside the material reality, outside the sphere of competition, as if the PP and the central government could act on their own, outside the other. Gentlemen of the PP, as you know, the industry in Euskadi has a relative weight and a relevance far above the average of the state. The industrial tradition, the training and qualification of workers, the entrepreneurial commitment of decades, the active role of public institutions, the support and impetus for R & D+i, internationalisation, the use of taxation for the benefit of business and a long time, are part of a very deep-rooted culture, a task and an experience that are not improvised overnight. Therefore, for change, the momentum and to strengthen the industry it takes will, yes, but also ability, otherwise ideas can stay in water of drunkards. Do you not realize, gentlemen of the People's Party, that if we applied the 20% target, for example in Euskadi we would have to disinvest in industry, to back off, that is to say to lose weight in the economy? Nor do they want to know that industrial policy competences are in the hands of the autonomous communities and that it cannot be otherwise. It is not possible to implement top-down industrial policy measures outside local reality; if they do so, they will waste resources and achieve nothing in the industrial field. Only the action from the ground, knowing perfectly the springs, the strengths, the weaknesses, the weaknesses, using the existing channels, and so on, will it be possible to implement a successful industrial policy. We have said this on many occasions and will continue to say it as many times as it takes: if you want to be effective, transfer your concerns and ideas to the autonomous communities. They do not intend to discover the Mediterranean which, by the way, is already discovered many years ago. In Euskadi we have been working on industrial policy for many years, since we recovered the institutions of self-government. In addition, it is the competence, as I said, of both the Government and the outlaws to act in the industrial field. Ladies and gentlemen, if you review your approach; if you change your orientation, as the Catalan Parliamentary Group has also suggested, you could count on our group, our ideas and our work. [[Convergence and Union]] If, on the contrary, the only thing they intend to do is to make publicity and propaganda, as I suspect, by making proposals of an electoral nature - at this point in the legislature, which has also been said - do not count on us. I know that electoral temptations can be very strong, but I would ask you not to generate fraudulent expectations in the population, which is waiting for effective measures to emerge from the deep crisis we are still in. If they recognize the territorial reality, if they respect the competition framework and if they seek to promote and collaborate in the development of an effective policy from there, they will find us. In the meantime, we're not about to waste time. We will vote against this initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group precisely because we believe that industrial policy is very important in order to consolidate the economic growth that is needed. Only if they accept some of the amendments, which could be that of Convergence i Unite, respect for the competition field, and consider their initiative with the content that other parliamentary groups have proposed, only in that case, if we think it is reasonable, would we come to abstention.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to be brief to deal with a proposal for a law which, frankly, has a problem, which is its insubstantiality. It seems to me to force things, although today it seems that we are on the day of emptiness, occupying as much time as we are occupying, so I will try not to occupy anymore. Of course, I believe that we all share the absolutely obvious objective that it is necessary to increase the industrial base of the economy, to boost industry. Interestingly one of the effects of the crisis has been partial recovery; but not much, just over one point of industrial GDP or the industrial part of GDP in Spain. But this is completely contradictory to other actions of the Government, and you know it because we have discussed it many times in the Commission and in plenary. That is, for example, energy policy - and energy is the second chapter of industrial costs - has been an energy policy against industry. Just remember the scandalous tolls and fees to cogeneration, which is fundamental for steel, metallurgy, ceramics, cement plants and other industries. There are sectors that are industrial, such as those linked to the digital world, which find themselves only with barriers of development and access. They do not make any kind of policy in favour of developing emerging sectors. Indeed, the fact that the crisis and the loss of value of the euro vis-à-vis the dollar have favored exports is not precisely what a government should presume, but an unwanted positive consequence of a non-existent industrial policy. More; this same election year there are 5.5 billion budgeted investment in AVE. Much of that money would be much better spent precisely on an industrial policy that, I insist, does not exist. And to conclude, because I have promised not to extend, is that it is also a non-law proposal from the logical point of view without any consistency, because it begins by stating: The PP government has put in place... And he ends up saying that the government is being asked to implement the policy they say is already in place. Look, logic has to be taken a little seriously. I understand that the Group of the European People's Party has difficulty filling its parliamentary time as a majority group and is dedicated to bringing this kind of thing to us, which is not the first time, but, in fact, is not serious. I do not think it is the work of this House against the crisis to present things that are not going anywhere and that do not have the logical consequences that follow. If you believe that the government is failing to comply with its own industrial agenda, which is what this non-law proposal says, do you know what you would have to do? To present a motion of censure to the Government. We would be happy to support her. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u73	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr García Aegean, do you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u74	We're preparing a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u75	All right, thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ACTION PLAN OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM BETWEEN HEPATISIS C. [[File number 162/001126]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u76	Let us now see the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on the National Health System's plan of action against hepatitis C. This will be the last item to be discussed this afternoon. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez Olmos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to discuss a non-legislative proposal on a subject that has been recurring in recent months: the approach the Government is making to the need to deal with a disease such as hepatitis C; patients who have before them the possibility of having new therapies that involve a miracle capable of curing a disease that until now was almost fatal and a delay in action by the Government that unfortunately has a significant cost in health, despair and sometimes even life. This is something that we cannot afford and that is why we believe that we must bring back to this House again and again the need to address in a concrete, appropriate way and as our patients deserve, the attention to those who suffer from hepatitis C. Until it is resolved, my parliamentary group is going to bring this issue here, because, despite the fact that the Government has rectified, it has done so with pushes and, despite that and it is going in a direction that gives us some hope, we still have enormous doubts that the approach being taken is effective. Ladies and gentlemen, we rarely find ourselves in medicine with the possibility of having drugs or therapies to cure a serious disease; when that happens, we are practically faced with a kind of miracle of medicine and, when that happens, it is logical that medical and nursing professionals, that health care and that patients see with enormous expectation and hope the appearance of these new therapies that can, as I said, be a kind of miracle. Patients logically get impatient if they see that there is no response to their needs when doctors decide that they are entitled to therapy to hope to save life, improve or cure this disease. What happened? For the Government has been a scar in its approaches to hepatitis C for many months; it has neglected the claim made by my parliamentary and other groups, medical scientific societies and patient associations themselves. It has done so in a way that has no explanation and has wasted us a precious time. My parliamentary group believes that it is essential to put in place a national plan for the National Health System as a whole to offer guarantees to patients that prevention will be done when it is possible, early detection when it is necessary, health care with the new therapies that the market puts at our disposal when scientific evidence so determines and doctors, therefore, so decide and that in order for that to be a reality, the necessary resources and funding exist. And here we find a question that is generating an important, transcendent debate, not only in Spain but internationally: the price of these therapies is unjustifiable, unjustifiable. It cannot be justified that the price of a therapy reaches 40,000, 50,000 or 60,000 euros, especially when these are therapies that are going to be applied throughout the European Union and in other countries, when we are going to aspire in our action at the international level to be therapies that reach the entire earth globe and, therefore, the more patients can be cared for the more chances that the unit cost will be lower. We call here on the pharmaceutical companies that have to make an effort to explain why these are the prices they want to impose for these new therapies, which in practice pose a difficulty of access for patients in many countries. But, that said, the government has not properly negotiated the price of these therapies. Ladies and gentlemen, I anticipate that we will soon have lower prices for these therapies, among other things because the government had not committed itself to making an approach as it should be. All patients with hepatitis C who are in the records of the autonomous communities, all the people we detect have to have a response in a plan, have to have a planned response, determined on the basis of scientific evidence, ordered on the basis of clinical criteria, and that offers hope to the citizens, offers hope to the patients, but also offers a powerful weapon to the government to define the appropriate price of these new therapies with the pharmaceutical companies. We have always been doing this in the National Health System and that has not compromised the viability of the sustainability of Spanish public health. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we propose in our non-legislative proposal to develop the national hepatitis C plan. We also propose an issue that is vital: people cannot be told that we are going to make a plan for everyone, that we will ensure that all patients who need new therapies according to the clinical evidence and the decision of their patients will have access to these new therapies if there is no guarantee of funding. It is not time for floral games, it is not time for written articulations that seem to give a guarantee that is then not a security right. It is time to be with people, it is time to ensure that people in Spain will be able to benefit from their rights and from a supposed economic recovery that must reach all citizens. That is why we are going to insist, we are going to defend everywhere that citizens, patients are going to have an answer yes or yes, because we cannot accept another approach. Mr President, we have received a number of amendments from the parliamentary groups, and I anticipate that we will be able to accept proposals made to us by the Basque Nationalist Party, United Left, UPyD, which we are going to present to you for your vote. Unfortunately, we have not been able to reach an agreement with the People's Party, I recognise that they have tried, but the lack of commitment to funding for a plan like this sincerely prevents, at the time we are, an agreement that people would understand that does not give them guarantees and we are not in order not to solve the problems definitively. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my group is doing this approach, it is opening up its hand, it wants us all to go together, it would be a good sign if the citizens saw that, indeed, the Government is correcting, putting in place the measures it had to take, and somehow I would also like them to apologize for this delay because it has cost us a lot of suffering, especially for patients, some health and some lives. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Olmos. Amendments have indeed been made and Mr Agirretxea has the floor for his defence, first of all by the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Group has tabled a non-legislative proposal on the need for a strategy for prevention and action against hepatitis C. As Mr Martínez Olmos has pointed out, hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects and develops a pathology that is in some cases mild and in others chronic; its severity is above all in the chronification, which generates subsequent problems. The case is that it affects many millions of citizens in the world. The relevance of the topic is timely because it is important, but it comes in turn accompanied by a great media and social echo derived largely from the use or non-use, on the supply or supply of a certain drug in the National Health System. It is not therefore a new disease, that has appeared now, that is, that we know it, we have treated it, we have lived it, perhaps the impact has come from elsewhere. The Basque Group has tabled an amendment which basically includes two fundamental elements in our view and which improves the text presented by the Socialist Group. On the first point raised by the Socialist Group, we agree that a plan of action by the National Health System against hepatitis C should be drawn up to promote prevention, early detection and effective treatment on an equal footing for all citizens and patients through a clinical protocol drawn up on the basis of scientific evidence. Nothing to object to, we obviously believe it is positive; the bad thing is if it is only literature, but in what the Socialist Group says we agree. That plan, yes, must be drawn up with the consensus of the autonomous communities, above all, and also of scientific societies and patient organizations. We have put forward a second point that I think is important, which is that the excessively high price of the most recent medicines to treat this hepatitis C, direct-acting antivirals, can seriously jeopardize the sustainability of the health systems of the autonomous communities, given the high prevalence of the disease. Therefore, we proposed to urge the Government to renegotiate the prices of direct action antiviral drugs and to establish prices which can be borne by the health systems of the autonomous communities and which are more balanced in relation to their production costs. This is a fundamental axis and we are talking about something very important. I believe that the responsibility of the pharmaceutical industry to which Mr Martínez Olmos had previously appealed is very important. It's industry, but it's also pharmaceutical. It's industry, but it has a social responsibility with what it does. It is not the same thing to develop anything that makes drugs for our health. We therefore call for and want that responsibility, and we appeal to it, for the pharmaceutical industry to negotiate properly, at affordable prices and to arise in this situation in which we all believe that agreement should be reached. Finally, we raise a third point which is that the role of the autonomous communities in the process of negotiating and fixing the prices of medicines is currently of a witness nature. Given that the autonomous communities are the ones that fund the cost of medicines in the treatment of patients, greater participation in the decision-making process would be desirable, even recommended. We therefore urge the central government, through the Ministry of Health, to develop a regulatory process to ensure the effective participation of the Basque Autonomous Community in this case in the process of negotiating prices for medicines. And they will ask others: Why not in other communities? We agree that each one should ask, because perhaps some do not want to participate and, according to the statutes, Euskadi and Catalonia, the first ones that had the competence, were competent in this matter. Therefore, as I represent the citizens of Euskadi, I ask that the Autonomous Community of Euskadi participate there and if other communities want to do so, too, because this formula, which has been completed that they are two on a rotating basis, does not convince us at all. We want to be and ask for a standard to be developed so that we can articulate that presence. This is also not new. My group has always asked this and other governments, even some minister has made a commitment to my group to achieve that; not at all. The word, like so many other times, was carried away by the wind. Only some groups respond to agreements when they're caught. That's the reality. As I see that I am running out of time, I want to say that there has been a lot of media echo in the face of this problem. In Euskadi alone in this month of January there have been about 120 new patients treated with new hepatitis C medicines. New drugs are coming in every week. It is false that for the treatment of hepatitis C there is only one drug and that hepatitis C was not treated before this medicine.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u80	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u81	I'm done. I therefore close with a sentence from the health adviser of the Basque Government, who said two questions in the same sentence. Not only Sovaldi cures hepatitis C and we'll never leave anyone untreated. That's happening in Euskadi and I hope it happens elsewhere too. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. In defence of the amendment by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Cantó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. We support this proposal, which the Socialist Group is bringing to us today, because it is trying to give an urgent solution in addition to those affected by hepatitis C. I do not want to go into economic arguments, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, because we would have to go in and ask you how much a human life is worth. In any case, the price we put to you would seem irrelevant to me, because to me it is quite embarrassing that you are not giving a solution as this problem deserves and also with the utmost speed. What we do see again is that the People's Party Government once again demonstrates an absolute lack of empathy towards the citizens, towards what is hidden behind the figures that you manage, after your cuts, behind your budgetary priorities. We have been talking about this topic for months, a topic that has not just been solved and this passage of time translates into a worsening of the health of the sick and even more deaths. What do we want? We believe that the government that the Spaniards deserve should be working in Europe right now to form a united front with the rest of the states and thus negotiate forcefully before the laboratory to greatly reduce the price. Moreover, that Government which we believe we deserve the Spanish would have long since reviewed the system of negotiating and fixing prices for these medicines, in order to achieve greater transparency in setting these prices, avoiding abuse like this one that we are dealing with today. Among the numerous figures that stand - because there has been a rather important dance of them - no one seems to argue that today there are about 35,000 people in an advanced state of the disease who could save their lives with the administration of this drug. I know we would be talking about hundreds of millions of euros, but, ladies and gentlemen, we in the General Budgets of the State have tabled amendments over and over again demonstrating that in those budgets we can still save thousands, not hundreds, billions of euros in duplication and unnecessary bodies. I started by saying that I did not want to use economic arguments, but I remind you that you could also save a lot by applying these vaccines, because we would save on many expenses that have to do with very long hospitalizations or, for example, avoiding many transplants that we have to deal with right now. I repeat, what are your priorities? Who do you defend, gentlemen of the People's Party? The organization of Doctors of the World, which I believe defends me on this occasion and represents me much better than you, has done something very different. I'll explain it to you. What they have done is not impossible, because it has been done in Brazil and India. They're challenging the validity of a patent, you know why? By manifest abuse, which is what is happening now, because the price is excessive, because the inequality it generates is unjustifiable, since in some countries the price of this medicine can double that of others. Do you know what this medicine would cost if you were doing what these NGOs have done? 88 euros. In addition, Doctors of the World argues that this molecule is not novel enough to patent it. Who do you work for, gentlemen of the People's Party, for the citizens who are affected by this disease or for the laboratory that will do the business of the century with it. Who do you work for? Because we are talking nothing less than a limitation of human rights, and in the meantime what are you doing? You are limited, as always, to drawing up a strategic plan, the first draft of which is not yet ready. I discussed this issue with you months ago in the relevant Commission and the draft is not yet ready. What are you waiting for, gentlemen of the People's Party? As always, you offer only words again, because once again you have not committed to an extraordinary fund that accompanies this plan. Again, you are presenting empty words, proposals without budgetary support. Once again empty words, gentlemen of the People's Party, which in this case do not heal. I tell you again that we and hepatitis C patients deserve a much better government than you are giving us. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u84	Thank you, Mr. Cantó. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Llamazares has the floor to table his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we are again debating the treatment of hepatitis C patients. My group believes that this debate is fair and timely. My parliamentary group agrees with the rest of the parliamentary groups that in this House they are blaming the Government for the delay and restriction in relation to the new drugs for hepatitis C. There was a therapeutic positioning index, there was a therapeutic strategy and another strategy is under way for which a commission has recently been appointed. It gives the impression, not only to desperate patients because they do not get treatment, not only to parliamentary groups, that the government is gaining time, and patients do not have it. In this respect, my group shares the view that an objective plan is necessary that has clinical criteria, that is credible and that has certainty for patients and professionals, and also supports the need to adapt budgets and even the allocation of powers to ensure that there is funding, but, ladies and gentlemen, we would remain on the surface if, as in the aftermath of the economic crisis, we did not realize that in the case of hepatitis C a very important change is taking place that affects - indeed - the expectations of patients, but also the future viability of health systems. It is the first time that we have the capacity to treat and eradicate a disease and the great difficulty not for private systems but for public systems is the abusive price of a multinational. In the case of Ebola, ladies and gentlemen, the problem was that there was no demand, that is, in the absence of demand there was no investigation and therefore forty years and we still had no therapeutics. In the case of hepatitis C, where there is a potential demand of millions, we find the reverse, and the reverse is speculation. Are we going to set foot on the wall and stop speculation? That's the question. For this reason, it is not enough for the Government to change its management policy; it is not enough for the Government's communication policy, which has the same defects as that of the previous ministry. It is necessary to change relations with multinational companies because this drug, ladies and gentlemen, in order to even pay the normal interest in the market to the multinational, should not cost more than 100 euros; however, each treatment will cost more than 25,000 euros to the health system. Ladies and gentlemen, if we open the fence on this issue, it is not only the accessibility of treatment by the citizens, but also the public health system that is at risk; therefore, we need to put our feet on the wall. That means taking the measures that are proposed today, such as improving the management, clinical management or implementation of a fund, but that would not be enough because what are we going to pay for, what are they asking for? Are we going to accept what they want or is there really a European strategy and a Spanish strategy to arm multinational companies? European because there is a critical and Spanish mass because we use voluntary leave and also, if necessary, compulsory leave. They won't fool us because we play the health of citizens and the public health system. That is why we have tabled the amendments, because we believe that this is an indicator of the present and future of our health system. If we tackle it well, there is a future; if not, we will have many problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. To introduce the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Angulo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having new medicines that can advance the cure of hepatitis C is very good news for those affected and also for the whole system. We see it as an opportunity and so has the Government. Contrary to what some spokesmen have said here, the Government has worked intensively to facilitate new medicines to those affected; it has done so by approving the guides and, even more, by incorporating all the medicines that were being approved into public funding. In fact - you know that, although you do not intentionally mention it - Spain is one of the few countries that have incorporated them all. Spanish people today have access to treatments that many European citizens cannot enjoy. Therefore, if something should become clear here today, it is the Government's commitment that all patients who meet the established clinical criteria will receive their treatment. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what the affected want. [[Applauds]] Precisely to ensure equity in access to treatments, we insist on the need to develop the strategic plan for addressing hepatitis C. A plan involving experts and encouraging effective prevention, detection and treatment on an equal basis for all; drawing up with the consensus of scientific societies, patients and autonomous communities; enabling us to develop the register of patients to know the real number of people who may be affected and not mismanage the figures; and defining the clinical criteria to ensure access to these new therapies for all citizens on an equal basis, live where they live. That's equity. A plan that is even broader than the one called for by the Socialist Group. That is our proposal. But I would like to insist that, while drawing up this plan, those affected are not being neglected. Spain has the therapeutic arsenal, guides are prepared and until the end of January about 4,500 patients have received the treatments that have been prescribed to them. Therefore, it is not true that patients are being neglected. The plan is intended to move forward and improve the situation, but we do not stay there. Unlike you - the Socialist Party - who approved plans without money that were then useless, in our amendment we call for the implementation of that plan to be ensured. The incorporation of these innovations poses a challenge for the National Health System, yes, but challenge does not mean impossibility or veto. On the contrary, the system has been able to demonstrate in recent times its ability to meet these challenges. I am fully convinced that our system will be able to meet these challenges, because the People's Party Government is articulating new mechanisms to do so, such as shared risk, volume price or centralized purchasing. I am very surprised that this rostrum is talking today about the price per volume that we would have to talk about in the European Union when there is an autonomous community in Spain that is refusing to do so within Spain, limiting the access of millions of citizens to many medicines. [[Applauds]] I'm surprised by those contradictions. That is why, Mr Martínez Olmos, we cannot agree with your request for a single measure to obtain that funding. Firstly, because we do not even know the total number of people affected yet, and secondly, because incorporating that heading would involve giving arms to the industry in the negotiation. You are all fully aware of the enormous work the ministry is doing on this issue and your commitment to ensuring access to treatments for all those who meet the clinical requirements. You know that, even if you deny it today. Let us leave the ministry to work and ask it to ensure the implementation of the plan, because that is what ensures equity and equality, but let us not narrow down or close down the way we do it. That is why we ask you to accept our amendment, which involves moving forward on that plan that will allow us to better understand the situation, especially because it incorporates the commitment to ensure that assistance with equity. The important thing that should unite us today is the goal. Citizens do not want it and you do not want it, citizens want solutions and we are offering them: scientific criteria for all citizens to have access to equal treatment throughout the Spanish territory and to ensure that these criteria will be applied. Today there is already a basis for this, because there are about 4,500 affected who are being treated. For the People's Group, health must be a matter of State. We see it this way and we have offered you dialogue on this subject. Let us hope not to have to see once again how for some this is not a question of state but still a question of party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Angulo. Mr Baldoví has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group's position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Every day people die because they have not been treated with a medicine that could have cured them; that's what it is. Day after day, hepatologists prescribe drugs that do not exceed the protocols because of their high cost and therefore do not reach the patient; they prescribe them because they know they are necessary, they know they cure, but the Administration in many cases prevents their access to the sick; moreover, some autonomic governments require that they prescribe others that do not improve their health. Every day that happens is a day that is lost and for many it is too late. Yesterday the minister acknowledged that perhaps he had wasted his time. Of course a precious time has been wasted, I have even heard the spokesman of the People's Group who still do not know how many sick people there are. I don't know what they're waiting for. The facts also highlight the meekness of the pharmaceutical industry, we will not deny it. From Compromís Equo we believe that we must legislate against speculation of people's health. We are already seeing the consequences; if we follow this path, in the end, only the rich can be cured. The institutions must offer a strong legislative response to this type of action, imposing measures to prevent speculation on people's health. The Spanish State has legal mechanisms to resolve the situation of abuse of the patent of drugs against hepatitis C. With regard to GNP and amendments, hepatologists are desperate to be able to prescribe last generation treatments and there is nothing else to study, it is all being studied, these last generation treatments must be provided on the basis of medical and non-economic criteria. This measure must be taken immediately, so that persons affected by this situation receive the prescribed medication as soon as possible. I'm done. Of course, we support all measures aimed at negotiating a reasonable and affordable price. We've played our lives. Therefore, since Compromís Equo we have announced our support for this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Rumors]] I beg a little silence, please. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's initiative and any other initiative in this regard, especially after announcing that the proposer will accept some of the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, since the European Medicines Agency approved the Sovaldi in January 2014, it has been almost a year until the medicine was approved and included in the service portfolio of the National Health System and until the IPT was published. After a year, in January, the ministry decided to set up a committee of experts to draw up a strategic plan to address hepatitis C, which according to the minister himself will not finish his work until April. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about human lives and the situation that this Government has generated is not understood either from the health or from the human point of view, because in this disease the time factor is absolutely crucial and thousands of people not only continue to get worse but to die. This is an emergency and the Government, while creating expert committees and expanding time, is dedicated to being an accomplice to the pharmaceutical industry, which plays with the health and life of many people to obtain benefits, cutting, dismantling and privatizing public health. For the BNG it is a priority that the most serious cases be dealt with immediately, in order to avoid more deaths. These are not moments of waiting for expert results and analysis, they are moments that require immediate action. That treatment should already be guaranteed to people who are in the worst situation and under strictly medical criteria and not according to the economic ceiling set by the Government. It has been done, ladies and gentlemen, with great diligence to rescue banks, to cut back to satiety - I conclude, Mr President - to give tax amnesties and to defend, on the part of the People's Party, the lives of those who have not yet been born. We demand the same diligence or much more to prevent them from continuing to die affected by hepatitis C. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. I now give the floor to Mr Quadra. [[Rumors]] I beg a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the firm and dignified struggle carried out by all the sick and sick of hepatitis C in Nafarroa, in Euskal Herria and throughout the State; a struggle in defense of their health and to prevent it from being subordinated to the scar politics of the PP government and the lack of scruples of multinational pharmaceutical companies. I would like to talk about the pharmaceutical industry, what in justice should be called pharmaceutical industry. I say this because it is a real social crime that should be pursued by justice that a multinational such as Gilead, supported by patent legislation that clearly violates human rights, covers Spanish public health, as has already been said, 25,000 euros for each treatment, when in practice its production is only worth 100 or 150. A couple of hours ago we discussed the so-called anti-jihadist pact, which I would call political and social anti-dissidence, in which any serious crime against public health is defined as a terrorist. Well, why does this agreement that they call anti-terrorist apply to these multinationals that put their interests above those of 900,000 people in the Spanish state today suffering from this disease? Why is medical and pharmaceutical research in general left in the private hands of this and previous governments and is it not driven by the public administration? Why are not the medicines prescribed by hospitals and health centres dispensed and all distribution and sale left to the private industry? Why is the World Health Organization being emptied of skills and money so that it is not able to implement virtually any plan against it or other diseases, all with the aim of encamping the pharmaceutical multinationals in their wide range? Why can we expropriate roads, cars, and yet we cannot expropriate patents that can solve the medical problems of millions of people? Why is health ultimately dependent on the capital interests of multinationals, and not on the interests and needs of the affected population itself?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Quadra. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Tarruella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must all welcome the fact that we finally have a treatment that will, in most cases, cure hepatitis C. We can never deny treatment to patients suffering from a disease if it can cure them and, above all, if it is their specialist doctor who, with scientific criteria, prescribes it. The role of the institutions is to ensure that this treatment reaches them and that it is not the patients who have to worry about who pays for it. This is a debate that is not the first time we have been here - the proponent of this non-law proposal has said - and that because the problem has not yet been resolved it is coming out again and again. I would like to put myself for a moment on the skin of a hepatitis C patient, who knows that there is a medicine that can cure him and that hears all day discussions between parties or between groups for the price that should be paid for that medicine. I believe that this show should not be given and should be solved. In the last interterritorial council there was an agreement between all the councillors and the Government to make a strategic plan for hepatitis C and to reach all the patients that - I repeat -, with scientific criteria, must be supplied to them. This is the case with Catalonia. In Catalonia, we have even gone a step further than the National Strategic Plan says. In Catalonia, more than six hundred people with hepatitis C have been treated so far, and some very particular cases where, according to medical criteria, they should be brought to them, and patients have also been given not only from the F4 group - as these protocols say - but also patients with F2 and F3. Our parliamentary group, Convergence i Unió, has not tabled any amendments to this non-legislative proposal because in its spirit it reflects what we have been saying, not now but at other times too, regarding the elaboration of that plan of action on hepatitis C. I have heard from the representative of the People's Group that more than 4,000 patients with hepatitis C are already being treated; of course, and all those who are needed, but it is the autonomous communities that are treating and it is the autonomous communities that are paying for this treatment. That is why we also agree with point 2 of this non-legislative proposal that a heading should be incorporated; here it puts in the Social Cohesion Fund, but we do not care that it is in this fund, in the FOGA or that a specific heading is created for this, whatever, but what we do know is that in the context in which we are, the European Medicines Agency is the one who approves the medicines and the ministry is responsible for negotiating that price of the medicines, but in reality it is the autonomous communities who buy them and who pay them. We again ask here for this specific fund for the autonomous communities, where these new treatments and all innovative medicines should be financed for the first time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u96	I'm sorry, Mrs. Tarruella. Please be quiet so that we can hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u97	In November 2013, we already discussed a non-law proposal, where we asked for these specific items for the autonomous communities. So the rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party told us that there was no need, that that was already in FOGA. I was talking about FOGA in 2013, when, to this day, this care guarantee fund has not yet been launched. Put it wherever you want, but it is important that you help the autonomous communities, which are the ones that are giving face, which are the ones that are taking care of the patients, which are the ones that are making these medicines and treatments reach all the patients who need it and that none of them are left without it. Therefore, since Convergence i Unió we will support this non-legislative proposal, and more after having announced Mr Olmos that he accepts part of the amendments of the Basque Nationalist Group, with which we also agree that the autonomous communities must have a very important, indispensable part in these negotiations regarding the price of medicines. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. Mr. Martínez Olmos, although you have already said so, as far as I can see, there is a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u99	Indeed, President. There is a compromise that we have tabled with the support of the groups that have been accepted to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Olmos. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u101	Vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist People's Groups and Mr Salvador, Mrs Oramas and Mr Álvarez Sostres, which amends the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 336 in favour, 288 in favour and 3 in favour, 291 in favour, 32 in favour, 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u102	It's approved. We shall then vote on the direct and single reading of this proposal for an organic law. Three telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 3 telematics votes, 329; 299 plus 3 telematics votes, 302; against, 21; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u103	It's approved. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE TERRITORIALIZATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF 0,7 % OF THE IRPF FOR OTHER SOCIAL INTEREST, INCLUDING THE ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERISTICS. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 122/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u104	Takes into account the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on territorialisation of the performance of 0.7 % of the IRPF for other social interest purposes, including those of an environmental nature. [[Convergence and Union]] There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 2 telematics votes, 328; in favour, 35; against, 187 plus 2 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u105	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u106	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on strengthening industry in Spain. There is a transactional that your ladies and gentlemen know, which is the one that we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 298 against, 16 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u107	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ACTION PLAN OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM BETWEEN HEPATISIS C. [[File number 162/001126]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u108	No bill by the Socialist Group on the National Health System Action Plan for Hepatitis C. There is a transactional that your ladies and gentlemen know and that is the one that we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 147 against, 179 abstentions, seven.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-10-CD150210.u109	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
