ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u1	The meeting was called to order. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 15/2014 of 19 December 2014 amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to this House today the validation of the Royal Decree-Law amending and improving the economic and fiscal regime of the Canary Islands. This is undoubtedly the best instrument the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands has ever had to enhance its economic development. It is a text which, in its new wording, sets as its main objective the creation of employment on the islands, which is fundamental in the economic policy of this Government, and even more so in the case of this autonomous community, which suffers from one of the highest unemployment rates in Spain. With this renewed REF canario, the Government is fulfilling one of its commitments in this legislature; this was stated by the President of the Government from the very first moment in the investiture debate. Before presenting to your ladies and gentlemen what are the main improvements that have been made in the amendment of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, I would like to make a brief paragraph to highlight two political values that I understand essential in the current royal decree-law. On the one hand, there is the value of consensus, of agreement. The text that we are bringing to this House today is the result of a fair and constructive negotiation developed in a frank climate of cooperation between the governments of Spain and the Canary Islands, with the support of all the political groups in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. When two institutions acquire the commitment to work for the common good of their citizens and leave aside party or electoral interests, it is much easier to find political meeting points and technical solutions to reach agreements. That's what happened in this case. As I said before, the result is the best REF canario we have ever had, and of course the best possible at this time in which the fight against unemployment must be a priority for all governments, for all rulers, and in which the search for new business opportunities is essential in order to ensure that the Canary Islands has an increasingly diversified, modern and open economy to the world. The second political value - which I believe is justice - is that of diversity in the Spanish State. The Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands is an obvious example of the ease with which singularities can be developed in different territories that make up the State of the autonomy of Spain under the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. It is precisely our Constitution, with the solidity given to it by its thirty-six years of life, that gives legal coverage to our diverse fiscal regime and that allows it to adapt to the different needs that originate in the different territories of Spain. It was the Constitution that, through consensus, established for Spain a system in which communities coexist that are governed by the common tax regime with others that, due to their historical or geographical peculiarities, possess institutions and laws different from the rest. I am talking about the outlying farms in the case of Navarre, Álava, Gipuzkoa or Bizkaia, or the tax-economic regimes of the Canary Islands and Ceuta and Melilla. They are in all cases singularities that have not only rooted in the legal system, in what means the institutional framework of Spain, and that are seen and accepted naturally by the citizenry, but have also been consolidated in a truly demanding supranational sphere, such as that of the European Union. In fact, in the event that you bring us here today, the amendments to the Canarian Economic and Fiscal System are made under the general block exemption regulations of the European Union. There are still those who sometimes question the viability of our forms of state, both for economic and political reasons. We have to reject these views, because, as in the cases we are bringing here, from the singularity and difference Spain has been prosperous and has exercised as a further democracy in the club of democracies of the European Union. Therefore, today we can perfect a regime that intersects centuries ago, the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, which is not only in force but can be enhanced in terms of continuing to gain self-government in the autonomous community as an example of the success of our state of autonomy and a reference - I insist - of the value of consensus, of the value of the agreement. The Government therefore wishes to express once again its firm defence of the Constitution and its commitment to the model of coexistence it establishes for the Spaniards, under which the State of self-government is developed and consolidated and the differential facts of the different nationalities or regions, their institutions, the co-official languages, the fiscal singularities or the competences of each of them are strengthened and made real. Returning to the concrete content of this royal decree-law, I call for the House's support because we are faced with an instrument that can be important for the economic development of the Canary Islands, especially, as I have tried to underline since the beginning of my intervention, to combat the high unemployment rates suffered by this autonomous community. To this end, the new regulation offers important tax incentives to create jobs in the Archipelago for a period of application between 2015 and 2020; although entities registered at that time in the Special Area of the Canary Islands will be able to benefit from the tax system until December 2026. In addition, it deepens on another of the lines previously taken up by the REF canario, that of the diversification of economic activity. The amendments contained in this Royal Decree-Law mainly affect the regulation of the Special Area of the Canary Islands and the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands. In addition, it introduces a deduction for investments in West African territories, which is very interesting both for the opening up of new markets by companies based or subsidiaries in the Canary Islands and for the development of the recipient countries themselves. With regard to the ZEC, the Special Area of the Canary Islands, which I had the honour of launching from the Ministry of Finance that led more than fourteen years ago - an example of the interest of the People's Party Government in encouraging economic activity in the community - the new regulation extends its scope to the whole territory of the Archipelago, to give greater possibilities to all investments, and expands the number of activities that can be developed to benefit from tax incentives. In addition, the limits of the tax bases on which the reduced rate of 4 % in corporate tax can be applied are significantly increased, directly linking them to job creation. In this way, the greater the number of stable jobs created, the more the above-mentioned 4 % reduced rate can be applied to corporate tax. The generalisation of the geographical scope of action, as so far as the benefits of the special area are concerned, only reached companies located in very specific areas; this makes it possible to achieve more effectively the objective of diversifying the economic structure of the Canary Islands and job creation. We have therefore exceeded the geographical scope of the benefits of the ZEC. In addition, not only start-up companies may benefit, but they may join the Canary Islands Special Area branches of legal persons who previously had an economic activity. With regard to the expansion of activities, the aim is to promote job creation in more sectors, mainly those which are labour intensive and which are related to technological, textile, agricultural, environmental and tourism-complementary sectors. With regard to the application of the reduced rate of 4 % in company tax, the new regulation applies it horizontally, so that all economic sectors can benefit equally, so that it no longer distinguishes, as it has done so far, between industrial and service activities. Moreover, as I said earlier, it extends the limit of the taxable base to which it can be applied, directly linking it to job creation. The more jobs are created, the less taxes the company will pay. Thus, the reduced rate of 4% will apply, on a maximum of EUR 1.8 million of the taxable base, when the company creates the minimum employment, which is 5 net jobs in Tenerife or Gran Canaria, or 3 jobs in the rest of the islands. For each additional job, the base limit is increased by EUR 500,000, and in case more than 50 new workers are given employment there will be no limit. This initiative cannot go beyond the rules of the European Union, which involves and concerns all Member States in a similar situation. In this case, the general block exemption regulation of the European Union states that the tax savings due to the application of the reduced rate may not exceed 10 % of the entity's net turnover. Another of the relevant changes is the Investment Reserve in the Canary Islands, the RIC, which is now more flexible in order to benefit a greater number of companies that bet on job creation in the Archipelago. This equates indirect investment to direct investment, and - which is very relevant - not only encourages new investments in the Canary Islands, but these tax incentives are linked to job creation, although this is not accompanied by previous initial investments. In any case, to benefit from the incentives there must be an increase in the total average staffing within 12 months and be maintained for several years. On the other hand, as I stated at the beginning of my speech, I must stress that for the first time the REF incorporates a new deduction for investments in West African territories and advertising costs. The objective is to increase investments in the Canary Islands to facilitate and promote the use of the Archipelago as a platform to open up new markets in West Africa. The geographical situation of the islands is inconvenient with the remoteness of the rest of Spain and Europe. This is one of the main reasons for the existence of the Economic and Fiscal System, but it also has the advantage of its proximity to the African continent and to countries where there is much to do from an economic and commercial point of view. That is why we have proposed to use the REF canario to stimulate investments that can take advantage of this proximity, which we must understand as a privilege. In this way, small businesses will be able to deduct 15% and the median 10% of the investments they make in the establishment of subsidiaries or permanent establishments in Morocco, Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde. To this end, they must meet a number of requirements, such as that the investment is maintained for at least three years and that there is an increase in average staff in the Canary Islands, which must also be maintained for three years. These same deductions, of 15 % and 10 %, may be applied to advertising and advertising costs for the launch of products for the opening and prospecting of markets abroad and for attendance at fairs and exhibitions. Finally, the deduction from technological innovation is improved by a clear commitment to promote investments in the Archipelago that have the added value of being oriented towards the most technologically advanced economic activities. In this case, the applicable increased percentage of this deduction on the islands is increased from 32 % before to 45 %. Ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of the Government, I ask the House to confirm the Royal Decree-Law amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, which already received on 22 December the favourable report from the Parliament of that autonomous community. There is also the fact that this is the second time that, as Minister of Finance, I have the honour to represent the Government of Spain to demand from the different political groups today, as it has been almost fifteen years ago, the modification, the progress of this economic and fiscal regime. It is an honour for me to take up again the rostrum of this Congress of Deputies to promote, to promote the economic development of the Canary Islands, with all that this represents for the whole of Spain. This renewed REF gathers most of the demands that had been made by the political, economic and social sectors of the Archipelago, undoubtedly combined by the desire to boost activity and especially by the need to boost the labour market. The text we are bringing here today is certainly an important incentive for companies to invest in the Canary Islands in new and diverse sectors and create jobs in a wide range of activities. From now on investing in the Canary Islands to generate wealth and employment will be more attractive and of course more profitable. That is why we hope that this new REF will be a strong support point for overcoming the crisis in the Canary Islands and, of course, in Spain as a whole. These are the reasons that encourage the Government to request the validation of this Royal Decree-Law. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go with the interventions of the groups. Firstly, Mrs Oramas has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as canary today is a day of great satisfaction for the fact that the Canary Islands are coming. As the minister said very well, this is not a new topic; it is from the time of the crown of Castile, hundreds of years in which this differential fact of the Canary Islands, remoteness and insularity has been recognized. Today comes a part of that economic and fiscal regime, which is the fiscal measure. I want to highlight the political consensus - it was unanimously reached in the Canary Islands - the social consensus of trade unions, employers and collectives, as well as that of two governments, that of the nation and that of the Canary Islands, first in reaching agreements, which is very important, and second in having decisive action and a timetable. It was very difficult then - the minister knows - for the European situation to take that strategic decision to delay the negotiation, because it was not the time when this matter could be brought to Europe; however, the accelerator had to be put in before the changes in the Commission took place. It was determined action by the two governments and also by them in Brussels. As the Minister said, he also wanted to point out that the three fundamental axes of the changes that are coming today - not to revalidate for longer periods - are: the axis of employment, because it was important to link investment and tax benefits to employment; the opening of the Canary Islands to Africa as a logistics centre; and then the possibility of the ZEC being an investment attraction for the Canary Islands, which is very important. It is now up to the Government - and I say this to you, Mr Montoro - to spread it and sell it as a matter of state. We need that when State visits are made with the business community to the United States, Asia and Africa itself, it is the Government of Spain that disseminates it and puts it in value. That is the task that can really serve for the Canary Islands to diversify the economy, to create jobs and to be that hub, that point of location for Africa's future development. I would like to devote a moment to the economic aspects of the REF, which do not arise today and which have two components: one, which must be complied with, and two, which must be updated. Why do I say they have to be fulfilled? Because between the economic crisis and, sometimes, the lack of political will, the State Budgets and the actions of the People's Party Government, there has been a setback in certain areas in recent years. That is where we have the setback in certain agreements, in certain investments, in transport aid, in aid for the desalination of water; we have the disappearance of other measures such as employment plans, the tourism infrastructure plan or the specific ICO agreements for the Canary Islands. There are other elements that were there to which President Rajoy himself committed himself in the debate on the state of the nation, such as the issue of the fifth freedom, which has not been implemented and which we have to study because it is a fundamental element for the connectivity of the Canary Islands. And I say update because the Canary Islands Parliament itself and all the political forces in the Canary Islands have raised certain issues that need to be reviewed, such as the issue of waste and a number of other things. It's not that I want to retire you, but you're one of the few people left who knows that philosophy and what REF is. Because the REF is not a subsidy to the Canary Islands; the REF is a compensation for the extra costs that exist in the Canary Islands due to the insular fact and remoteness. And when the spokesman for the People's Party in the Canary Islands says a week ago that he has met with the Secretary of State for Finance and that the economic REF is postponed until 2016 and will be within the framework of the financing of the autonomous communities, it is not true. The subject of the economic REF and the compensations to the insular fact are prior to the negotiation of the financing of the autonomous communities and will finance in all the communities the common services. The subject is earlier, and we're here to bring it in. I believe that while these new economic measures are reasonable and need to be studied, teams need to know why the REFC was born, how it was done and what the European guidelines are. It should be left at least outlined and negotiated and can be approved at the time, regardless of the degree of compliance or budget allocations. And that's where I challenge the new government. I want to finish with a sentence. The Canary Islands expect the amendment of the Constitution, the updating of the Constitution, not only to solve the problems that exist in this State after so many years of democracy, but also to make two things appear in that Constitution: what is contained in the European Constitution, which is the status of the ultraperipheral region of the Canary Islands, which is a permanent fact in time; and, secondly, in order to be able to shield the REF and to be enforced, to govern whoever governs, to need us the Canary Coalition or the Canary nationalists or not to need us, to be law and, even if it is reflected in the Constitution, to be enforced. And it is also important that the OR statement, because what is sad is that Europe does implement its policies always on the condition of OR and that the governments of Spain do it depending on what interests them, depending on the votes they need or depending on the budget available. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, today is one of the rare times that the two canarian nationalists have intervened on the same agenda item, it will be because the matter is particularly relevant and because it is good that the organisations in this case explain their positions even if they are essentially similar. Today we see the modification of part of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, of the tax aspects contained in Law 19/1994, after the report of the Canarian Parliament, which I have to remind you here that it is a mandatory but non-binding report. We have agreed but, as you know very well, it is a claim by the Canarian nationalists that when we are going to act on something that is our acquis, such as the Economic and Fiscal Regime, the Canarian Parliament will have the opportunity to intervene if something seems to us to hurt the interests of Canaries. Even so, the draft royal decree-law that we see today has been unanimously adopted in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. It has been deserved, although on the part of Nueva Canarias, whom I represent here, we consider that there are some elements in which we disagree; not everything can be absolute agreement. We are concerned that the deduction of Canaries' investments abroad has been raised as it stands. I would like to draw your attention to the concern of New Canarias that the capitalization and fiscal savings involved in the efforts of the Canary Islands are investing outside the Canary Islands with which it is falling in that land. We proposed to stimulate communication with the African continent, as is natural; to promote the promotion of our products, etc. Besides, you know it's not easy to control that. If it was not easy to control the investment reserve as it was, imagine outside. We have nailed that thorn, although it has not prevented us from supporting the report. It is very good that the ZEC has been extended to the whole of the territory and that there are novel aspects in the Canary Islands' investment reserve, but the most important of all is that 50% of the resources can be used for job creation; this is crucial. The problem is that in the best case scenario, with 2014 data, 5,000 jobs could be created in the Canary Islands - which is fine, we are not going to be angry about this - but if we are talking about 350,000 unemployed in the Canary Islands, surely something more is needed. We also think that the deduction for investments in the Canary Islands can be used to diversify the Canarian economy. The issue of film productions is fine, all this is fine, and we recognize that here and we have raised it in the Canary Islands. We have to be very sorry that the star proposal for New Canarias is not there, and I have to remember it because I think it is at least useful for us to reflect on this and it was the question that it would be possible to reduce social contributions to social security temporarily for SMEs and self-employed people while the unemployment rate in the Canary Islands was as it is, far above the Spanish average. It seemed to us to be an absolutely reasonable and essential measure to achieve growth in employment, but we have failed to do so. Nobody's talking about breaking the one-size-fits-all Social Security box, which is clear as to whether it's generated is a concern; we think there are tools to do this. I do not have time to go much further, but we do want to say that this is not enough for the diversification of the economy in the Canary Islands or for the definitive fight against unemployment in the Canary Islands. That needs a special plan that I know you're not going to commit now and we're not going to pose it to you because it would be idle. In the line my colleague has put forward, in terms of the economic REF, in addition to being there, it has a drawback. It has not been modified by this royal decree, as it is natural, but it does need a modification and above all that you comply with it. I will tell you one thing: if you had complied with Article 96 of the REF Act of 1994 the Canary Islands would not have lost 169 million euros in investments in the current General State Budgets or 600 in terms of the mandate of its Government. It is imperative that you understand that for the Canary Islands this instrument is vital in its fiscal aspects but also in the economic aspects. Even so, and without precedent, we will agree, Minister, on which we are pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u8	Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking from the seat simply to point out that our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law which we consider to be positive for employment and economic activity in the Canary Islands, a territory so needy precisely of economic activity and employment. Despite what Mr Quevedo has said, which has preceded me in the use of the floor, which is not enough, it is certainly not enough, but we believe it is a positive step and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. My group has often reiterated from this rostrum that we do not defend the differences in treatment between territories, between the people, therefore, who inhabit those territories, on the basis of supposed historical rights, and that differentiates us from many nationalist groups in this House and it seems that also from the Minister of Finance of the People's Party, who does highly appreciate the historical rights that are based on the centuries-old. But, in the case of the Canary Islands, it is clear that we are talking about a completely different situation, at least us. We are not talking about centuries-old historical rights, we are talking about an objective difference that has to do with geography; a situation of insularity, a situation of distance from the peninsula and Europe. And in this case, equality of opportunity, the possibility of truly integrating with the rest of Spain and Europe, requires differentiated policies to compensate for the disadvantages of this insularity. There are obvious issues: air and sea transport of people and goods, water supply, desalination of water, the cost of energy. These are situations where, in order for the Canaries to have equal opportunities with the rest of their Spanish citizens, they need differential policies. The European Union itself recognizes this by considering the Canary Islands as an ultraperipheral region, and of course it also does so - in the pure sense of common sense - as a Union for Progress and Democracy. From this position, how do we value this royal decree? We believe that this is basically a continuous review of the REF that was set in the mid-1990s, focusing only on fiscal aspects. And in this continuous review we can find some positive aspects from our point of view, for example, the increase in deductions related to technological innovation, although it could lead to other types of innovation; that there are more deductions for cinematographic productions, audiovisual series, which are an important part of economic activity in the Canary Islands, although it is true that these productions and this type of activity have been mistreated by other government policies. But there are these positive aspects: promoting technological innovation, film productions. In other cases it is observed the continuity that previously cited, is the case of the reserve for investments in the Canary Islands or the Special Area Canaria. Here it expands, it becomes more flexible; but, as we will see later, the problem of these policies is that they have not created much net employment, in fact it is not clear that employment created in some companies is not a job destroyed in others. Finally, there are other negative aspects. The deduction for investments in West Africa seems intuitively right to diversify there, we are supporters of trade, of international diversification, but let us remember that there are deductions being made in the Canary Islands for investing in West Africa and in territories with which there is no exchange of tax information or treaties to avoid double taxation. There is therefore a risk of misuse. We also see negatively the change in the renewable energy timetable, which demonstrates the slowness and little success with which these policies are being implemented in the Canary Islands. But our objections are more fundamental, not so much of the details of this royal decree that we have mentioned, but from the point of view of the policies proposed by the Union for Progress and Democracy in the Canary Islands, which are very different from those currently in force, alternative to those currently in force. Because although there is no evaluation of the REF - and it is curious that of a tax expenditure programme that has involved more than 700 million in the last decade every year there is no evaluation of its effects - it seems intuitive that at least in the field of employment has not been very successful, and it is enough to see the data of the EPA, where the Canary Islands has an unemployment rate of 33%, that is to say 10 points above the very high unemployment rate that we have as an average in Spain. It seems clear that there has been no great success in job creation. These policies ultimately benefit a small group of large companies in traditional sectors linked to political power but which hinder the diversification of the Canarian economy, while they have important drawbacks for people, who are faced with a more expensive and less diversified shopping basket, with countless bureaucratic procedures in their exchanges and with daily difficulties in accessing e-commerce platforms. Hence our proposal to reform this economic and fiscal regime in its fiscal aspects. What UPyD is proposing in the Canary Islands is firstly to reform the general indirect tax which replaces VAT in order to bring it more into line with the Sixth Directive, so that trade with the rest of Spain and the European Union is facilitated and in practice reduced VAT. Union Progreso and Democracy in the Canary Islands questions the arbitrage on imports because of its marked protectionist character and the harm it causes to consumers and we would like a change of focus in the REF for traditional companies linked to the public authorities towards a REF aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens, a REF which ends with the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures that the canaries have in their exchanges with the rest of Spain and the European Union, a REF which facilitates the operations of these electronic commerce platforms which are part of our daily lives but which have difficulties in operating; a REF which, in the case of tax aid, changes the philosophy and goes more directly to people, which acts more through subsidies on the tax base of the IRPF and company tax for individuals and small companies; a REF for individuals and not for companies in the traditional sectors. Finally, we lack a second component of this REF which is the economic aspect. Only tax aspects are brought here, but these tax aspects alone are insufficient, and if they often focus on deducting benefits, they are particularly insufficient when those benefits are absent. That is why we are surprised and miss this second economic pillar to promote the new in the Canary Islands instead of continuing to protect the old. We believe that there is a problem of economic philosophy there, there are many protectionist measures, subsidies and tax aid to protect the traditional sectors and this may have the drawback of being making it difficult to diversify and modernise the Canarian economy. There should be no surrender to geographical determinism, there are other geographical areas with an island situation that succeed in overcoming that geographical determinism. And a change in the productive model must be considered, to promote the growth of the new and not to have as the only horizon to defend the existing often in traditional and mature sectors. That is why, even in the tourism sector, we believe that there is room to improve the quality of the tourist offer, to rehabilitate hotels, to modernize and increase quality; we believe that it is important to develop the fifth air freedom; we believe that it is important to promote renewable energies, and we believe that it is important - and I will emphasize this - not to focus so much on physical capital but to give priority to human capital, to the training and education of people. Traditionally the emphasis has been on physical capital and today it is more important even human capital, formation. This, together with the new technologies, to promote telecommunications with the Canary Islands, high capacity networks, can be the way to connect the islands with the rest of Spain and Europe because in these activities based on training, in the new technologies, these transport costs disappear. This makes it impossible for us to vote yes to this royal decree because it is not our model of REF. We want a REF for people and not for a few companies, a REF that modernizes the Canarian economy and does not anchor it in these traditional sectors. But neither can we nor do we want to vote that we do not and that our vote is distorted in the sense that we are against compensatory policies of insularity in the case of the Canary Islands, which, as I have explained, is not our position. That is why our vote is going to be abstention. We believe that there should be a fiscal economic regime, but, as I have said, of very different characteristics to the current one, that improves the situation of people and that promotes modernization and the fight against geographical determinism in the case of the Canary Islands. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Canarian reality needs special attention, it is also needed in other parts of the state, but it is true that the Canaries has an unemployment rate of the highest in Spain. It is alarming that around 70% of those under the age of 25 are unemployed or that wages are EUR 400 below the average for the whole State and that people at risk of social exclusion are - according to official figures - around 38%. It is therefore true that action must be taken, that action must be taken. In this context, we believe that the first problem presented to us in your proposal today is that it is not true that you have all the consensus. You have spoken of political consensus, but there is a lack of an important consensus: social consensus and economic actors. They have not participated in this proposal and have not done so because they have not been left behind, despite the fact that they have demanded it on several occasions, despite the fact that the Pact for the Economy and Employment of the Canary Islands signed in 2009 reached an agreement that I can literally read to you: to start as soon as possible a working group between the autonomous government and the social and economic actors to work on the elaboration of this proposal, of this Special Fiscal Regime. There were no economic and social actors, they only met twice and it was to talk about how the negotiations were going. Therefore, there is no consensus, there is no agreement on the social side and that for us is quite decisive. After reading the proposal and listening to your explanation, we understand that as it is presented here this Special Tax Regime will not really serve to create employment, as you have come to count today. It will encourage greater liberalisation of the economy and more precarious employment. Urban speculation will be encouraged and what would have to be a special tax regime will lose its historical meaning. With regard to investment reserves in the Canary Islands, we denounce that it had always been an opaque and uncontrolled tool. There is no public accountability for the amount of the Reserve Fund or how it is used. It has never had a monitoring and control commission to assess its use as well as to ensure that it is not used for purposes other than its own nature. The reality is that now 50% of these investment reserves can materialise in job creation at an average cost per worker of 36,000 and needs a commitment of three to five years, but neither the type of contract nor anything like it is indicated. We have therefore said that it serves to deregulate employment and not to create employment. However, this investment reserve can also be materialized in any type of financial instrument and there is no obligation to present a prior investment plan as it should be. As regards the deduction of investments in the Canary Islands, the novelty is that between 10% and 15% can now be enjoyed to invest in third countries. There is a list of countries - we do not know the criteria with which it has been developed - and that also means that this special regime can be denatured because it serves not only for investments in the Canary Islands but also in other countries. We have doubts as to who will control this type of tax deduction and the effect it will have on employment in the Canary Islands. With regard to the Canary Islands Special Zone, apart from other incentives, it will pay only 4% of the company tax, its implementation, as you have said, has no territorial limits and will increase the companies that according to their activity can benefit from this special zone. We believe that this presents difficulties insofar as the list of companies is not public and there are no obligations for companies to comply with work practices. We have trade union complaints that precisely the companies in this area are the ones that exercise the most anti-union practices and are therefore encouraging companies that do not even comply with collective bargaining and occupational health. In short, it would be a matter of making it clear that those who can obtain tax benefits also commit themselves to generating quality employment, also commit themselves to collective bargaining and to the prevention of occupational risks. None of that we've seen in his explanation. Finally, this royal decree only approves its fiscal part, not the economic one, which should recognize, among other things, through the General Budgets of the State, how one can act in investments that are necessary in order to desalinate the water, to subsidize the transport of passengers and goods and even the special plans of employment for the Canary Islands. Of course, it is through strict deficit compliance and we believe that this part is clearly at risk. In other words, the approval of the tax side, of the party that is going to increase business profits, has been guaranteed, but the part that has to benefit the whole population through investments has not been approved. Therefore, our group will not vote in favour of this real decree because we know that it has no social consensus, because it does not really face the problem of unemployment but will increase the profit margins of companies without any commitment in return. Meanwhile, the tax reform that is needed for the Canary Islands and for the whole state is not really being tackled, a tax reform that really puts the economy at the service of the people, in which the tax burdens go to stop those who can best bear them. We therefore believe that we are facing a proposal that is more electoral than effective and, as I said, will not count on our support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Picó has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I set out my group's position on the validation of the Royal Decree-Law. Studying the precedents of previous debates for this reason it can be seen that my parliamentary group has always voted in favour of the validation of the various royal decrees-laws that have been approved by successive governments as a result of the necessary adjustment of the regulation of tax incentives applicable to the Canary Islands, with the map of regional State aid approved for Spain in the different periods. This time again the validation of this royal decree-law will have the affirmative vote of my parliamentary group. Also, as on other occasions, my group attends in particular to this debate, in addition to the explanations given by the appropriate member of the Government, the opinion expressed in their speeches by the canarian representatives in Congress to know the good or not of the rule that we are dealing with, especially of the deputy Ana Oramas and the deputy Pedro Quevedo, as well as of the other canarian deputies who will then speak, I hope. From the interventions that have preceded me, important things emerge, the tax changes introduced by the Royal Decree-Law improve the current text with a threefold objective: to support job creation, openness to Africa and the attraction of investment in the Canary Islands. In this respect, I must say that by assuming, as you have said, that the Minister has mentioned in his speech, Mrs Oramas and Mr Quevedo, the bilaterality of the autonomous state-community, is the way to solve the problems and to give the answers that the territories need and require. I must also say that the Canarian Parliament has unanimously reported on the text, in exercise of that bilaterality between the State and the autonomous community. After reading the Royal Decree-Law we have to say that music sounds good: boost to job creation, investment promotion, economic and social development and diversification of the economy of the Canary Islands, activities and technological innovation. All these are concepts that contain the text of the standard that we would validate today. The Minister has been fully responsible for giving us an account of the content of the specific fiscal measures: the need to promote measures that canary representatives always highlight in their interventions in this House because of the special physical characteristics of insularity and remoteness of the Canary Islands, but also because of their economic and social characteristics. That is why, and at a time when we cannot yet talk about overcoming the economic crisis, with its profound social consequences included, the fiscal measures contained in the Royal Decree-Law seem appropriate and relevant to the Canary Islands and, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, as we have traditionally done, we will validate with our affirmative vote the Royal Decree-Law that we are debating today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. The Socialist Group has the floor, Mrs Patricia Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. The main objectives of the REF reform were to create the right conditions to maintain and create jobs in the Canary Islands and to create mechanisms to redistribute wealth. That is why the first assessment of the fiscal REF is that it is not the document of maximums that the PSOE wanted, but rather the document of minimums on which to go further; minimums that turn the reform into limited and unfinished and that only refer to the fiscal aspects of the REF, separating the economic aspects, that need to be negotiated with the Government of Spain, because the so-called economic REF is key in people's lives, it affects the real economy, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is our job. Let us never forget: our ultimate goal as public representatives is to improve people's lives. That is why this reform remains half-hearted, because it does not touch on vital issues - they have already commented here - such as the costs of light, transport or shopping basket, because it does not speak of the day-to-day of the canaries and canaries, that day-to-day, by the way, that you have endeavoured to further complicate the canaries. In addition to its decision not to negotiate the economic aspects, it is necessary to combine the cut in the State budget allocated to the Archipelago in recent years, some EUR 500 million per year, with a reduction in the spending capacity imposed on the autonomous community. I remind you that this is another of the breaches of President Rajoy, who in his investiture debate said he wanted an average state investment similar to that of the rest of Spain, something to which the REF on the other hand obliges. In addition, they have failed to comply with road, tourist and hydraulic agreements, have cut the consignments to compensate for insularity and remoteness, and have eliminated the consignments that compensated for our difficulties in transport, and this is also the REF. That is why it is so important and, as such, we are surprised that the Spanish Government has not wanted to reflect any commitment in this regard. They also turn their backs on a unanimous request from the Parliament of the Canary Islands and that the Economic and Fiscal Regime be done jointly, also with the People's Party of the Canary Islands. The approved tax regime does not enter into the fundamental problems of the Canarian economic model, but continues to place a great deal of emphasis on physical capital and little on human capital, intangibles, innovation, which are the new keys to the progress and development of the territories, of societies. The absence of this perspective not only limits the potential of the REF to create value on the islands, but it continues to accentuate an unequal distribution of it, but, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in politics things are very rarely white or black and, despite the existence of issues on which we need to continue working together, we understand that this reform is positive as long as progress is made. If you think so, let's go over the news point by point. Firstly, the RIC, which has been discussed here. The most important aspect, which we consider appropriate, is the inclusion of the possibility of realising it in labour costs: wages and contributions. For us, however, it is a smaller proposal than the one proposed by the Autonomous Community, the one proposed by the Parliament of the Canary Islands. I would remind you of this: the bonus of half the social security contributions for the new contracts. What is important, however, is that steps are being taken to ensure that the CRP is put at the service of employment. In the ZEC we have made progress; we are pleased with the recognition that the Spanish Government is making of proposals that have been made by the consortium itself. As for the improvements in the deduction of technological investment, which went from 32 to 45, it is an excellent step that will help the technological development of many canary companies and increase their efficiency and results. Given the productive characteristics of the Canary Islands, it would have been better if it did not remain alone in R & D, which would include the smallest, the innovation, which does not necessarily have to be technological, because it does not need to be read to Christensen to know that on many occasions it is more generating economic and social benefits than the first. In addition, we believe that in its implementation, mechanisms must be developed to provide legal certainty for incentives for research and development. With regard to the deduction of investments linked to internationalization, we agree with the part that allows investment in everything that allows us to export, essential for the development of our society: promoting marketing, research and development techniques, but this section also includes the deduction in investments in West African territory. We recognize that it may be designed to facilitate this internationalization of companies, but we do not communicate with the promotion of investment abroad using tax incentives in the Canary Islands. It is true that the creation of stable employment is required in the Archipelago, but we will be attentive - I can assure you, we will be very attentive and attentive - because if this involves the relocation of our companies, they will face us. As regards the raising of aid limits for the audiovisual sector and live shows, there is a sweet sour taste: on the one hand, it has a very important tax differential, 80% of the limit, but on the other it has a limit to exceed. We therefore increase competitiveness with small productions, but not with large ones, where we are losing international competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this reform introduces improvements, but that we have missed another opportunity too. The economic philosophy supported by the modern REF in 1994 was based on the incentive on physical capital, because the economic theories of the moment said that this was what should be done, investment in infrastructure, but what we are told today is that it should be invested in human capital, because it depends on people, on intelligence, on work, on talent, whether an autonomous community develops or not. This new reform of the REF has introduced improvements, but they are like an analgesic. What we have done has been to fight the symptoms, we have not pointed to the origin of the disease. We're attacking the fever, ladies, but we're not going to the infection. And you know what happens when an infection doesn't get cut off from its roots? It's very easy, the fever reappears. To end our root disease, the Canary Islands needs to continue working on its fiscal and economic instruments. Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are given the opportunity within the general regulation of block exemptions to continue making changes whenever there is consensus between the Spanish and the Canary Islands Government, we have to bet on human capital. We know that structural changes are slow, that what we are doing here today is a small step, but it is not the end of the road. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the autonomic and general elections are coming, and with them the changes of government. I hope and trust that the next government officials, both from the Canary Islands and the Government of the nation, will have the will to reach a much more ambitious agreement capable of transforming the Canary Islands. Our aspirations - I say it now - will be aimed at achieving a more equal, more formed, more developed society; measures that support the encouragement of human capital, training, the recruitment of trained people, the accumulation of intangible capital, information technologies, business software, communication, innovation in general terms, not only technology; that the REF has a more social vision, so that incentives that benefit not only businesses, but also employment income, deductions for training, raising of exempt minimums to compensate for the shortage of the shopping basket are incorporated. The REF cannot forget the entrepreneurs, who should have a presence. It must contain measures for small businesses to move forward, to facilitate them to thrive, to grow and to create employment and progress on the islands, with a system that benefits the whole population and with fiscal and economic tools that act as engines of equality rather than agents of social inequality. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Hernández. For the People's Group, Mrs Asian has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the Canary Islands and for all the Canary Islands because we validate a decree-law renewing the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, the most powerful one that has had the Canary Islands since all time. In addition, it is a powerful economic and fiscal regime to create employment, as the Parliament of the Canary Islands unanimously acknowledged, with 55 votes out of 55 members. The Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands - it has been said here and it is true - has its history since the conquest by Castile and, by virtue of it, the Canary Islands has a legal, economic, fiscal and customs order more flexible and more beneficial than the rest of the national territory, in order to compensate the Canary Islands for those costs caused by the remoteness, insularity and absence of own natural resources. This economic and fiscal regime has always existed, although the specific content has varied as the economy, the specific situation of the Canary Islands and the international treaties evolve. However, the regime is guaranteed: it is guaranteed in the European order, as the outermost region of the Canary Islands, it is guaranteed in the Constitution and in the status of autonomy. That we want to deepen the legal anchor? All right, but the specific measures contained in the REF will obviously depend on the economic situation in the Canary Islands. I believe that with this new REF, which we approved today by the Canary Islands, we will be able to demonstrate the entrepreneurial nature of participation in foreign trade and the international vocation that the Canary Islands has always had. Many of the tax incentives contained in our Economic and Fiscal System are considered State aid and therefore their approval requires European treatment. We must remember here that the delay in the adoption of the new guidelines and the new block exemption regulation meant that the Spanish Government had to request an extension of 31 December 2013, the date on which the regional aid map for 2007-2013 was finalised, until 31 December 2014. With this deadline in place, the Government of Spain has had to step up negotiations to approve the REF that we are now validating with a decree-law. And I stress this negotiating process because it is important. The Government of Spain, from the Ministry of Finance, has done a continuous work with the Government of the Canary Islands, in accordance with the guidelines approved by the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Therefore, the statements made here today by representatives of the Canary Islands Coalition or the Socialist Party, groups which support the Canary Islands Government, are not well understood, since, as reflected on the website of the Canary Islands Government, the REF which is approved today - I read in writing - has the unanimous support of the Canary Islands Parliament and is supported by a broad social consensus. This is reflected in the website of the Government of the Canary Islands. I would ask in this House for a little coherence from these political groups who say one thing and then here they manifest another. These are policy issues that do not correspond to reality. I'd like to make a thought. The framework for investing in the Canary Islands and creating jobs with the REF is excellent: it introduces tax incentives as never before. And what makes economic growth, the generation of employment that we all want, not happen in the Canary Islands? The bureaucratic obstacles, the difficulties in the planning of the territory, laws as peculiar as the Act on special treatment for strategic investments. That is, if an investor arrives in the Canary Islands, he wants to make an investment and he wants to generate employment, the Canary Islands Government, supported by the Socialist Group and the Canary Coalition, says no, his investment is not strategic, stop. It is difficult in these circumstances to generate employment in the Canary Islands. With regard to the new developments contained in the new Economic and Fiscal System that we approved today for the period 2015-2020, with the exception of the Special Area of the Canary Islands, which will be extended until 2026, all its figures have been improved. The Special Area of the Canary Islands, which entered into operation in 2000, as Minister of Finance, the current Minister, Mr Montoro, has been extensively renovated. There has been consensus on the part of trade unions, experts, people working in the Canary Islands Special Zone consortium, employers and employees. In the Canary Islands, everyone wanted the Canary Islands Special Area to be renewed, the geographical area to be extended, the subjective area to be removed from the restrictions on the elimination of double deduction by economic taxation of national residents, the list of activities has been expanded and so on. All that's been done. It's widened. We have one before and one after in the Canary Special Area. Since 2000, which came into operation, until 2015, all those groups that have spoken have had time to make the reform and did not. With regard to the investment reserve in the Canary Islands, the most important instrument so far, as an incentive to invest in the Canary Islands, is now also an instrument for job creation without linking it to initial investment. What does this mean? That before, to invest in the Canary Islands in job creation it was necessary to make an initial investment. This was not very appropriate since there were entrepreneurs who had already been carrying out economic activities and did not need to make initial investments. It's expanding now. I recall that the regime and the requirement for initial investment to be linked to employment was approved on 31 December 2006. Remember which group supported the Government when this regime linking employment to initial investment was adopted. That restriction has now been eliminated. I think there's also been time to eliminate it before. The deduction for investments in the Canary Islands has been significantly improved, especially a claim that we have been making ever since the Canary Islands, the possibility of investing in the countries of influence of West Africa Some parliamentarians today have questioned how the verification will materialise. [[Senegal, Gambia, Mauritania, Morocco, Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde]] I would reassure these parliamentarians - it is not the job of Parliament to check the investments of entrepreneurs in the Canary Islands - but I would like to remind you that these investments in Africa are conditioned by the fact that jobs are created in the Canary Islands, that is, you invest in Africa, you create a branch, but the workforce in the Canary Islands has to be increased. This is what the experts who have the functions of checking the investment deduction in the Canary Islands, the increase in employment in the Canary Islands, will do. The deduction by cinematographic productions, technological innovation which, in addition to increasing to 45% -12% in the rest of the national territory - would have sufficed by 32% the difference of 20% in the Canary Islands, and was raised to 45%. In addition, it will be an important injection of liquidity, as it will allow the return of uncompensated amounts, which will enable the Canary Islands to establish itself as a centre for technological innovation, in a centre where activities of very high added value are carried out. In the Canary Islands we have no territory or opportunities to diversify our economy towards activities that consume many natural resources. Hence the importance of technological innovation deduction. What is the cost of all these tax benefits? The estimated cost is 511 million that Canarias needs to boost its economic and social development and believes the sensitivity of the Government of Spain to the Canary Islands, which was already credited in 2004, when the unemployment rate in the Canary Islands in 2004 was the same as in the rest of the national territory, 10%. How is sensitivity to the Canary Islands, members of the Socialist Party and the Canary Coalition, not to be credited now, when this rate has increased from 23% in the national territory to 33% in the Canary Islands, a ten-point differential? In other words, we have 40% more unemployment in the Canary Islands than in the rest of the country. How are we not going to have a differentiated tax system? Because the Canary Islands tax system allows, what it claims is not that there is less collection by certain entrepreneurs, as some UPyD representative has said here. No, no, what the economic and fiscal regime seeks is to lower the bills so that those entrepreneurs who operate in the Canary Islands with these surpluses, those taxes that the State does not collect, can invest them in the Canary Islands in job creation and in creating better conditions for economic and social development in the Canary Islands. The goal is not to reduce the tax bill, the goal is that those taxes that are reduced will revert to the welfare of all citizens of the Canary Islands. It has also been said here that what is intended is a REF for citizens and not for businesses, I understand what the Socialist Group has said. I do not understand this when the Government of the Canary Islands in the tax reform and in the autonomous section, in the income of employees, has announced that it will raise their taxes. So the Government of Spain - with the agreement of the Government of the Canary Islands, yes - is going to Europe to ask that taxes be reduced in the Canary Islands and in the meantime the local Government is increasing them. It's a paradox I'm leaving here to reflect on. In addition, this extension also contains other instruments not only for tax purposes, as has been said, but also for the extension of the special mechanism for grants for renewable energy, which will entail a cost reduction of 120 million. Finally, I would like to say to this House that I expect the validation of this decree-law, because it involves the establishment of an unbeatable fiscal and economic framework for the Canary Islands, as we have never had before. However, the Government of Spain cannot replace the Government of the Canary Islands. The political action of the day-to-day must be carried out by the Government of the Canary Islands and must create the economic conditions in this regulatory environment so favourable that this House today approves the creation of jobs and the growth that we need in the Canary Islands. Because governing is to make decisions and is to ponder, the opposite is to give opinions, and it will cause quite perplexity to citizens that those political groups that have government responsibility limit themselves to issuing opinions on what they have previously given their assent and unanimity in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Asian. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 17/2014, OF 26 DECEMBER, OF MEASURES OF FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OF THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND LOCAL AND OTHER ENTITIES ECONOMIC. [[File number 130/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u20	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 of 26 December of financial sustainability measures of the autonomous communities and local and other economic entities. To present this royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings to the Congress of Deputies for validation Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 of 26 December 2014 on financial sustainability measures of the autonomous communities and local and other economic entities. [[The lady]] These are actions, measures that need urgent approval because of the nature of their objectives and affect sectors of public administration and private activity, which would be adversely affected if their entry into force were delayed over time. First, I will refer to the financial sustainability measures of the autonomous communities and local entities, which the Government launched there in early 2012 and which are now simplified and improved while giving greater benefits to the institutions hosting them. The Government's decision to provide liquidity instruments to the territorial administrations throughout the current legislature has undoubtedly been one of the levers of our economic policy which has made it more effective for Spain to be emerging from this economic crisis, which has particularly harmed us in terms of job losses. The lack of liquidity in many autonomous communities and municipalities and the enormous difficulties these institutions had in accessing markets for financing opened up several fronts of economic instability that we from the Government of the nation had an obligation to tackle. At the beginning of 2012, at the beginning of the legislature, it was the Spanish state as a whole that lacked credibility, plunged into the sovereign debt crisis that the European Union was experiencing, and in the following months it was the case of the territorial administrations, many of which were seen as real ballasts, real obstacles to the recovery of the country. It was then thought that Spain, Spain of the state of autonomy, was little less than ungovernable, that a policy of reducing the public deficit could not be undertaken in a coordinated way, as also establishes, as an obligation of the Government of Spain, our Constitution. The case is that market access was often virtually blocked for many of our territorial administrations, mainly because the conditions they were required to grant them funding were inexhaustible from any point of view. This situation put a number of autonomous communities at risk of not being able to cope with their debt dues, with the payment of payrolls for their officials, public employees, and of course with the maintenance of social policies. In addition, in recent years a very perverse dynamic had spread for the economy, which was to retain for months the payment of suppliers' invoices, which had the double effect of seriously harming the interests of companies, mostly small and medium-sized or self-employed professionals but also of large Spanish companies and large multinational companies that are suppliers of public administrations in Spain. In this way, with this practice, the lack of credibility and the bad image of our public administrations deepened the problem of lateness. Many of these victims were providers of products and services related to social policies, I mean health, education and social services, and of course many of them were from NGOs, which multiplied the negative effects of the lateness of our administrations. All this represented an important setback for the deficit control policy in which the State was embarking and was undermining the country's prospects for economic recovery. The Government was aware that it had to intervene to put a financial remedy to this situation, so that autonomous communities and municipalities could obtain the necessary liquidity to meet these urgent needs, while at the same time fighting to meet the fiscal stability objectives that we had committed and that they were one of the touchstones that the markets demanded to restore us the lost credibility. I have had the opportunity, rather, more than one opportunity to relate, to describe the implementation of these liquidity mechanisms, and when we did so from the government we already insisted from the very first moment that we were not rescuing any autonomous community or city council and that with these mechanisms we were not seeking to favour any specific administration against another. They are measures that, on the one hand, try to favor the whole country, because we are all involved for the good and for the bad in the same boat and the only way to get ahead is to do it all together. On the other hand, they are initiatives designed to benefit people, to help citizens who need these social policies that our autonomous communities and municipalities provide, and who were at risk for the lack of money from these administrations. These liquidity instruments not only saved 400,000 jobs from suppliers who were stifled financially by late payment, but millions of people have been able to continue to access health, education and social benefits, the services guaranteed by the welfare State. We have done so because from the government we have always thought of the general interest, in the interest of each and every citizen, regardless of his or her place of residence, regardless of which party was governing a particular municipality or autonomous community and regardless of which political strategy was pursued by its rulers. As a result of this financial aid, the social expenditure of all public administrations in Spain has been maintained at 27.5 %, although a great deal of effort has undoubtedly been made to do so; yes, a great deal of economic effort has been made because it was necessary not only to sustain the provision of the various essential public services in a scenario of recession and forced deficit control, but also to cope with significant increases in expenditure which were approved by previous governments but which had not been able to pay and finance under the right conditions. Over the years, more than 70% of the money we have injected into the territorial institutions has gone to social policies. Thus, the Government has allocated to the Supplier Payment Fund €41,814.6 million, 30,219 million received from the Autonomous Communities and 11,595 from local entities. Well, 66% of this fund has been dedicated to financing essential public services in autonomous communities, almost EUR 20 billion. As for the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, the communities have received €62.8 billion between 2012 and 2014. 78% of the invoices that have been paid through the FLA, about 17.194 million euros until November 2014, have been earmarked for fundamental public services, which are those offered by our welfare state. In a context of meeting the objectives of the fiscal consolidation path with the effort of all the public administrations, this liquidity policy, as I said before, has allowed to cushion the strong initial contractual impact that fiscal consolidation would have had on domestic demand; that is, all the administrations were applying a reduction of the public deficit, but at the same time we were able to mobilize financial resources to pay a huge amount of outstanding invoices, so that it promoted economic activity, preserved jobs and, above all, helped to regain the credibility of Spain. The result is obvious. The public treasury in Spain would not be financed as it did today, with very short-term issues or syndicated issues at the interest rates that are being financed, if the markets had not endorsed that policy, which, on the other hand, is a policy of forced increase of public debt but consistent with the reduction of the public deficit in our country. We have therefore made the best use of the State's willingness to borrow to preserve public social services and in line with the reduction of the public deficit. This, moreover, is a policy that has made it possible to clean up the bank balances themselves, since the banks, and in particular the Spanish banks, are the main creditors of these suppliers dissatisfied by the public administrations. This scheme, together with the structural reforms of our economy, is allowing us to enter the path of economic recovery. We have known how the International Monetary Fund reviews for Spain and for the United States - only for these two countries - the forecast upwards. In terms of economic recovery, today we are being reviewed upwards by international agencies and all this has to do with the policy that we have all done together to finance our public services in an orderly, coherent way, shortening deadlines and contributing to the recovery of our credibility at the international level. That is what has allowed us access to the financial markets that we did not have in 2012 and with a reduction in the risk premium as we have today, up to the levels, up to the current levels. The liquidity mechanisms made available to the territorial administrations prior to this royal decree-law have entailed significant savings for them. In the case of the autonomous communities, the Government's estimate is a savings of €3,260 million per year and in the case of local entities, €920 million per year. Savings for the autonomous communities that have participated in the liquidity measures have enabled the allocation of these budget resources, which are direct savings in the form of lower interest rates, in the form of a lower financial burden, to be devoted to other alternative uses that actually benefit citizens. While the State offered ten-year financing at an interest rate of 3.9 % - for example, in 2012 - the autonomous communities that did not enter the FLA had to pay an average financing cost of 6.3 % at an average period of 6.7 years. In this way we see that we have favoured the financing of a large part of our territorial administrations, which had the most problems with access to financial markets, which have benefited most in comparative terms from their integration into liquidity mechanisms. The good results achieved with this policy invite us in this final leg of the legislature not only to keep it but to improve it, giving the financing mechanisms greater simplicity. Moreover, now that better access to finance is available, better conditions can be offered to all territorial administrations, which have funding difficulties and which do not, and opportunities for access to local corporations can be broadened. Ladies and gentlemen, to that end, which we have also generically called for the mutualisation of the debt of the territorial administrations, the Government adopted on 26 December the Royal Decree-Law, whose validation I have the honour to defend from this rostrum and therefore to seek the vote of the political groups on this matter. The desire of the Government of Spain is to share with all public administrations the financial savings that the Treasury has achieved. In doing so, it pursues a threefold objective: to maintain priority over social spending, to continue working with the other administrations, with which they have greater funding problems, and to encourage the communities and municipalities that have managed to overcome these differences by also giving them greater financial opportunities. To achieve this, the Royal Decree-Law creates two large funds: the funding fund for the Autonomous Communities and the funding fund for local entities. The Treasury makes available for this reform, by 2015, EUR 39,869 million, of which 1,000 are reserved for local financial facilities. I will try to summarize them, as soon as possible, what are the characteristics of each of them. Autonomous Communities. Firstly, the financing fund for the autonomous communities is made available to all of them, both for those who have difficulties in accessing markets and for those who are directly financed by them, both for those who have failed to meet the objectives of budgetary stability and payment period to suppliers and for those for whom they are meeting. Please note that I cite the objective of compliance with budgetary stability and payment period to suppliers, which is an objective to which our legislation already obliges, in accordance with rules and laws that this House has approved, such as the Commercial Debt Control Act and also the strengthening of the Electronic Invoice Drive Act which entered into force on 1 January 2015. Therefore, we now have to be demanding not only with the public deficit target itself - which must be - but also with the average payment deadline to suppliers that all public administrations, all levels of the Administration are obliged to meet. The interest rate will be 0 %, which is particularly attractive to all of them, regardless of their financial situation. This fund provides for the first time an incentive to meet objectives. In general, the interest rate will be 0 % during 2015; however, this rate will remain at 0 % for three years for the communities that meet the objectives of budgetary stability and payment period to suppliers - I remarry it, always add it - and it is not a collectible what we are adding, I insist, is a precept of legal obligation. We will therefore also stress this with regard to the obligations we have for all administrations. The autonomous financing fund comprises three compartments: on the one hand, the so-called financial facility, which is intended for the compliance communities, those for which 0 % of interest is to be maintained this year and the following two; on the other hand, the so-called autonomous liquidity fund, the current direct successor to the FLA, which is consolidated as the guarantor of the liquidity of the autonomous communities by covering the entire deficit and debt maturity objective of the autonomous communities, maintaining as a priority the attention to the fundamental public services, and finally, the social fund, which is intended to pay by the autonomous communities outstanding obligations with local entities, resulting from the agreements signed between the two parties on social policies and social expenditure. The State takes part here - and I am going to say this clearly too - in favour of the municipalities and the citizens, to whom the social policy of the welfare State must reach, so that no citizen can be left out because the municipality where he lives cannot finance an essential public service because his autonomous community fails to fulfil its commitment to finance it through a convention; therefore, the State, the Government of Spain, will act in terms of that social fund. The so-called social fund will make it possible to pay these debts and then the autonomous communities will have to return the money to the State. In extreme cases, when a community does not adhere to the social fund or fails to comply with its payment obligations, the State may retain resources from the communities to cancel those obligations, which in any case will be recorded in a register where all agreements signing communities and municipalities will be registered. This instrument is the natural development of the Local Autonomy Act, by completing through a financial instrument the necessary reordering of competencies between autonomous communities and local entities. It seems necessary to stress at this point that, in any case, the process of debt-sharing by the State is, of course, voluntary. Here, no territorial administration, no autonomous community or any municipality is bound or forced; therefore, it does not affect the competences of these autonomous communities at all. The only conditionality placed on communities that do not meet their objectives is that they do so, that they meet those objectives, with the objective of budgetary stability and with the objective of an average payment period to suppliers. At present, 36.7 per cent of the debt of the Autonomous Communities is in the hands of the State and in some cases that percentage is around 50 per cent, which very clearly reflects what has happened in this legislature, which has been the Government of Spain which, in fulfilling its obligations, has assumed responsibility as an issuer of that debt. Today, therefore, the debt lies with the territorial administration, the autonomous community with the General Administration of the State. We have already said since the beginning of the legislature that Spain was not going to break any autonomous community, that this possibility was not contemplated in the State of Spain's autonomy. We also said that the governability of that autonomous State could be guaranteed in the laws that this House had been passing since the beginning of the legislature. The first was the subsequent institutional architecture, the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability. We have fulfilled our obligations since the conviction that the responsibility for the financing of Spain's last public service lies with the Government of Spain and since the conviction that each autonomous community is part of the State and all its citizens have the same right to feel supported by the institutions that represent them. In the autonomic sphere, I also think it is fair to point out that the actual decree-law whose validation we are discussing here includes an amendment to the current seventh transitional provision of Law 22/2009 of 18 December, which regulates the system of financing the autonomous communities of common system. This amendment refers to the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union that declared the excise duty on retail sales of certain hydrocarbons, the figure known as the health cent, contrary to European legislation on the harmonization of excise duties. Well, as you know, as a result of this judgment, the return of the tax revenues abused by this tax is appropriate and the General Administration of the State proposes to bear the cost of such returns and not to pass them on to the autonomous communities. For this reason, the aforementioned legal amendment is made through this royal decree-law. On the other hand, the Government has approved that the autonomous communities can finance, at 10 years, under this fund, the repayments corresponding to the negative liquidations of 2013 and a fractionation at 10 years for local entities, thus giving territorial administrations a greater margin to meet their payment obligations, which can be offset by the following positive balances. With regard to local entities, I said at the beginning of my speech that this new exercise would extend the possibilities of access to liquidity instruments to the local government. Once again, I must point out to the House that the local government as a whole has made a great effort in fiscal consolidation in recent years, which has helped to restore financial credibility in our country while providing essential public services to its citizens. That is why, in the light of this commendable work by municipalities and parliaments, the State, which has been working together to make this possible since the I Supplier Payment Plan, will continue to assist those who have not yet achieved their budgetary objectives to reach the level of the rest and those who have achieved it to give impetus to their municipalities. The local funding fund distinguishes, as in the case of the autonomous communities, between those that have met their objectives and those that have not. Thus, the management fund is intended for highly indebted corporations at financial risk and for the capitals of provinces or municipalities with more than 75,000 inhabitants who repeatedly fail to meet the payment period to suppliers. The provision of this fund will finance long-term loan maturities that comply with the principle of financial prudence, maturity of the supplier payment mechanism and supplier debt until the average payment period is in line with the limits set by law. On the other hand, the economic stimulus fund is intended for local entities that have met the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt that are within the limits of the average payment period and meet the reporting obligations on the economic or financial situation. These municipalities may use the fund's money to meet the maturity of loans that they have formalized or formalized to finance financially sustainable investments. They may also finance projects that are considered relevant or financially sustainable in the terms agreed upon by the Government Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs. Investments will contribute to economic growth and jobs in the productive fabric of their respective localities, while maintaining, in any case, municipal austerity and fiscal consolidation policies. Savings for local entities will also be substantial, taking into account that the last financing operations closed by them have had substantially higher interest rates than the conditions offered by the State. We estimate that the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law has entailed an additional savings for the autonomous communities of 2,551 million euros per year - that means that it increases over the years - up to a total of 5,811 million euros of savings resulting from the implementation of extraordinary liquidity mechanisms. For its part, the additional savings for local entities involved in the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law amount to EUR 700 million per year, totalling EUR 1,621 million per year, resulting from the implementation of the extraordinary liquidity mechanisms in place so far. It seems relevant at this point to incorporate, although I will not give rise to the reading of it, how such savings are broken down according to the different mechanisms according to the estimates of the Government. [[Show a chart]] It is a picture where this total for the autonomous communities of 5,811.5 million euros, as each of the actions, including that of the actual decree-law, have been adding savings for the autonomous communities - disaggregated what it has meant for each of the autonomous communities - and also the savings that it has represented for the local entities, a total of 1,620.5 million euros that I have just reported to it, disaggregated also according to the different measures, such as the Fund for payment to suppliers, the FLA in the period 2012, 2013 and 2014 and the restructured savings in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council of July 2014, the last one submitted to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council of December 2014, the savings that will entail the new issues, which are also significant, new mechanisms that this decree-law puts into effect, and the savings that obviously represent the negative liquidations for certain autonomous communities. I am referring to the negative liquidations relating to the financial years 2008 and 2009 which, as your ladies and gentlemen recall, were the ones that led to a major breakdown in the financing of our autonomous communities and our local corporations. Other measures included in the actual decree-law of economic content, but also of undoubted social impact, are those relating to the digital dividend. The additional provision 14 extends the maximum period for the release of the digital dividend until 31 March 2015. In principle, all broadcasts on radio channels in the 790 to 862 megahertz frequency band used by the television audiovisual service were to cease on 31 December. As you know, the band must be free to provide advanced electronic communications services, in accordance with decisions taken internationally and in particular within the European Union. However, this is a complex process and while approaching on 1 January 2015 it was found that the actions deployed by television service providers would generally meet the targets and time frames of population coverage required by the law, there was a serious problem in the degree of adaptation of the reception systems of buildings. In fact, around 50 % of the buildings concerned would not have completed this adjustment by the planned deadline. For reasons of general interest, as the right to communicate and receive truthful information through the television medium is affected, the Government proposes in this Decree-Law to extend the maximum period until 31 March this year and therefore to do so in the operating system. During this period, operators providing state-of-the-art mobile electronic communications, known as 4G, will continue to use the frequency bands at their disposal since 2013. The demand for these services is not yet so high that it cannot be absorbed these three months by these bands. However, in order to maintain the financial balance of concessions for private use in the radio public domain, each day from 1 January 2015 until the date on which the digital dividend band is available to electronic communications operators shall be compensated by the extension of 1.27 days of the concession period. The Royal Decree-Law also proposes the extension of the single social security rate for indefinite recruitment, whose impact on our labour market is being very positive. As you know, the aim of this measure is to encourage indefinite employment in a work environment like ours, which has high rates of temporaryity. Since the adoption of this standard at the end of February last year, monthly contracting data show a clear acceleration of indefinite contracts. In the period January to November 2014, the increase was 19% over the same period in 2013. The result is that in these months of the rule 182,000 workers have benefited from this flat rate. For this reason, the Government considers it positive to extend its period of validity at least during the first quarter of 2015 and does so as a matter of urgency, through the royal decree-law that is submitted today to the validation of the Plenary of Congress. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law contains the reduction of charges at airports that have exclusively night hours and the specific regime applicable to social collaboration work in the field of public administrations. The aim of the latter proposal is to adapt the legal regime applicable to the work of social collaboration in the field of public administrations in order to increase the effectiveness and legal certainty of these labour relations. In general, the two main features of this figure are that they are socially useful works that benefit the community and are of a temporary nature. The aim of this amendment is to provide a reasonable solution to the number of social partners who currently provide their services in public administrations that grants certainty and legal certainty to the administration and greater guarantees for the unemployed who are carrying out social work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the royal decree-law that I defend, which I set out in this House, includes a number of initiatives of an economic nature that need urgent approval in order not to harm important public sectors, as I said, of our administrations, but also of relations in the private sphere. Its content has various and unalterable effects on the functioning of autonomous communities and local entities in the work environment and in audiovisual companies, which will have a positive impact on consolidating the country's economic recovery and on strengthening job creation, two of the major objectives that we undoubtedly share all political groups in this House. That is why, as a member of the Government of Spain and as Minister of Finance and Public Administration, I conclude my speech by requesting your support for validation. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u22	Thank you, Minister. Firstly, Mr Álvarez Sostres has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you ended your speech by asking this House to validate, to vote in favour of this royal decree. There are many good things about this, Minister; I am warning you that I would not vote in favour of this validation or apply torment to me. I will explain to you and to the government that Mr Rajoy presides why. First: last November 19, you and I were the protagonists of an inquiry into the financing model of the Autonomous Communities. Despite the electoral failure on the matter, it was a question of whether you were going to change that model. You replied that they were not going to reform the model in this legislature because the crisis had taken the money needed to change the funding model. Secondly, on 26 November, a week later, on the occasion of the motion's debate, this refusal was revealed even though there was a great inequality between the Spaniards of the various communities. There appeared in his intervention for the first time - at least I heard it so - the concept of mutualism of territorial debts. No one understood what he was hiding and no one understood what he was manipulating. The motion was rejected by the PP exclusively. Third: a month later, on 26 December, the royal decree that occupies us after a singular customary kermesse of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which with an imprecise parallel financing system de facto enshrines a change of model from the Government enhancing the value of discretion, if not arbitrariness, in the new model that does not replace anything. It is a parallel situation, it is a version of the new illustrated despotism of the twenty-first century, Mr Montoro, which defines a cash advance without further caution and an interference - in my opinion - in the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities; it means the free financing of the waste of the most wasteful, the most unfulfilled, on those issues that affect the Budget Stability Act, breaking the principles of equality and solidarity. All as payment of political favors to some and Olympic contempt to the rest, even those they fulfill, like Asturias. Of course everything is voluntary, Mr Montoro, you speak with the Community of Madrid, which you have already had to listen to. The feeling of hair removal is as great as my consideration of degradation of the ethical values of truth and rigor. If we add to this in Asturias the pacts and connivance with the socialists to maintain the situation, for nothing to change, we have more than an economic crisis, we have a crisis of democratic values that has to solve the democracy of the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u23	Mr. Alvarez Sostres, you have to finish. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I am finished, Madam President. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u24	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this royal decree is part of a perverse design by the central government of the state as regards the financing of the different public administrations, in which the autonomous communities, which are responsible for social spending by providing essential services such as education, health and social services, are the most damaged. The State, through the financing system, makes an unfair distribution of resources with a dual purpose: to limit the economic resources to the autonomous administrations and to indirectly cut social expenditure. Meanwhile, the Central Administration reserves a huge amount of resources to meet commitments with related oligopolies, such as the design of bank rescues or highways, the fiction of the tariff deficit or arms purchase programs. Ladies and gentlemen, two clear conclusions emerge from the analysis of the implementation of the financial system of the Autonomous Communities in the period 2009-2012. One, which has led to an imbalance in favour of the State, since its resources have increased at an annual rate of 7%, while the autonomous communities have done so at a rate of 2.5%. On the other hand, expenditure on health and education, the competence of the autonomous communities, after a period of rapprochement with the levels of the European countries, in this period declines and reaches pre-2002 levels. In addition, the autonomous communities are imposed a much lower percentage of debt on GDP than the State reserves for itself. It should be borne in mind that the percentage of debt of the autonomous communities over all public administrations is much lower than the amount of expenditure they manage, and we also have to bear in mind that basic services, as we have already said, are within that expenditure. Thus, the debt target for the autonomous communities in 2015 is 21.5 %, while the government debt as a whole will be in the billion euros, that is, close to 100 per cent of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, more restrictive deficit targets are also imposed on the autonomous communities, a maximum of 0.7 %, while that of the State will be 2.9 %. In this context, the various measures to promote the liquidity of communities, such as the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, are born, requiring them to have access to the mechanism that involves effective supervision and supervision of communities. Among other things, the financial instruments that may be used for financing outside the FLA are limited. In order for the autonomous communities to obtain adequate funding, it is necessary, Minister, first of all, to reform the financing system and provide it with more resources.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u26	Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u27	I'm done, Madam President. On the other hand, the Government of the State must stop imposing such strict maximum annual debt rates, so that each autonomous community can make its decisions on financing in the most appropriate way. The important thing would be a reform of the system and not these patches that you are doing, which are proving to be totally unfair. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. Mr. Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u29	Thank you, President. Minister, I suppose we have to thank you for your generous display today. Just like the other day to Minister Báñez, when she told us that thanks to her solidarity deployment the pensioners in Catalonia could collect their pensions. The question is: And the last twenty years in which the balance of Catalonia's contributions with Spain rises to more than 15 billion euros? Doesn't that count? Minister Montoro, he's generous as few. Listen, you come up to the rostrum and you tell us that you save the accounts to all administrations, including the Catalan and the municipalities, that you rescue the officials, that you rescue the suppliers, that you rescue everyone, even if they disagree. [[Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, makes negative gestures]] That's already the height of generosity. Even those who rule with ideas different from their own. Awesome! But, super-minister, tell us about the 30 years that have accumulated €30 billion in deficit in Catalonia compared to the Spanish Government, three times what are the contributions of the European Union during the same period? The triple. What about the figures drawn up by the Spanish Government itself, which range from EUR 8,000 million to EUR 15 billion of Catalonia's annual deficit vis-à-vis the Spanish Government? - I insist, figures from the Spanish government. If you want to look for others, but those are the ones that the Spanish Government has given on various occasions -. What about the laws that have been passed here that castrate the financing and real autonomy of the autonomous communities and the municipalities? Don't those laws count? And the last few years that have been spent charging interest for the FLA to those who have contributed more than what has been returned to them in investments? Isn't that charging usury interest to those who generate the contributions? Because the money is not yours, the money is not from the Spanish Government - we agree - the money is from the citizens who have contributed it. Then, when you condone interest in facilitating the financing that you have made difficult with the previous deficit, that is a strange generosity, a strange solidarity I would say. Get up here and tell them to withdraw their interests. You're generous as few, generous of race, Mr. Montoro. I'm giving you an idea. What if you did with Catalonia the same thing you do with the Basque Country and Navarre, with Euskal Herria? Isn't it true that they don't welcome the FLA? Is it true that these communities do not accept their funding measures? [[The Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, and Mr Delgado Arce speak words that are not perceived]] For something it will be. Could it be because they have full financial autonomy, because they collect their taxes? No, no, There's no relationship, it's not related to that. Another thought without charge, generosity on both sides: What if we rid him of such a heavy burden? Since Catalonia is so expensive, and if we agreed, we would talk about it and Catalonia would self-finance, Catalonia would be independent, and you wouldn't be so burdensome? Let's talk about it. We'd agree right away. Your government, and you first, castrate the administrations and their finances...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u30	Mr. Bosch, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u31	The last sentence that the minister will like: first castrates the administrations and then goes up here, says they will give us pipe and marks package with the superminister layer. Minister, at least I beg you to spare us that aesthetic spectacle. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u32	Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance, I am speaking on behalf of the Basque Group to establish the political position in relation to the Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 on measures for the financial sustainability of the autonomous communities and local authorities. There are very important economic and financial aspects but I will not enter them for lack of time. Nor will I refer to the rest of the measures to which you have referred, Minister, covered by the additional and final provisions, except for the fourth final provision. The main purpose of the Royal Decree is, as has already been said, the implementation of measures to ensure the financial sustainability of the autonomous communities and local entities, which are considered as an additional mechanism for financing those provided for in the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability to ensure the fulfilment of the objectives of stability and public debt. Therefore, adherence to these mechanisms implicitly implies recognition of the risk of financial sustainability or non-compliance with these objectives. The new fund for the financing of autonomous communities, approved by Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 of 26 December, has been explained and publicized as a beneficial, cheap and virtually irrefutable financial mechanism by the autonomous communities, in order to control the expenditure on interest that the autonomous communities incur. However, Minister, even the Autonomous Community of Madrid, governed by the People's Party, rejects the possibility of going to this funding. For something it will be. In fact, adherence to such mechanisms will imply that all financial operations of the acceding autonomous communities are subject to the management and guardianship of the State as well as to the total and absolute financial dependence of the central Government. Through the implementation of these financial sustainability measures, the State further increases its control over the economic and financial management of autonomous communities, municipalities and parliaments, since in addition to controls on public deficit, indebtedness or payment of invoices to suppliers on behalf of the autonomous communities, it is now also intended that they can only be indebted to the central government in exchange for better financing conditions, which are real. On the other hand, it may involve the closure of the financial markets of the autonomous communities, thus remaining at the mercy of the central Government as the only means of financing in the short and medium term, and without prejudice to the possibility of changing the financing conditions in the future. [[The Lord]] In any event, it can be stated that these requirements and conditions that the State will require in exchange for financing at zero cost, during the first three years, will entail greater control and supervision of the economic and financial management of the Autonomous Communities, and will de facto lead to a loss of financial autonomy of the Autonomous Communities, autonomy that will hardly be recoverable in the medium and long term, as they will become dependent on the financing of a single supplier, in this case of the Central Government. It should be noted that this will happen to local corporations. It should also be noted that these financial sustainability measures can be seen as a new control mechanism aimed, in this case, also at controlling the financial income of the autonomous communities. Accession to the Ministry's new financial fund for financing and saving financial costs implies not only obligations of greater information and subjection to greater ministerial control than the current one, but also adherence to clearly centralizing mechanisms, such as state electronic platforms, registers, CORA measures, etc. On the other hand, it is clear that this is a financial mechanism, in our case incompatible with the concert regime, since it arises in terms of accession to it when, on the contrary, the financial relations between the Basque Country and the State are subject to bilaterality and prior agreement, and not to an agreement of accession in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. It is also incompatible with the Basque Economic Concert because it is only valid for the autonomous communities whose funding depends on the State, which uses this type of financial mechanism that must be considered in the context of a complete vision of the system of financing of the autonomous communities of common system. However, this is not the case in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, with a specific financing system with its own tax system. In the same vein, it is not acceptable to require prior accession to these funds, the signing of an agreement with the State within the framework of the Joint Committee, where it is only possible to adopt agreements and not conventions within that framework. It is important to note that the financial relations of the Basque Autonomous Community with the State are articulated by the principle of bilaterality, not from the mere adherence to a mechanism proposed by the State for the whole of the autonomous communities and local entities, as is the case with this royal decree-law, provided that they do not entail the establishment of controls that nullify our financial autonomy. If the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and its institutions are responsible for their tax revenues, they must also, in the opinion of this Basque Group, be responsible for their indebtedness, which at the end is a part of their income. I would like to make some considerations regarding the first additional provision of the Royal Decree-Law, Minister, of which the least we can say is that it is inappropriate. It follows from the reading of its text that, far from establishing a model of material and formal bilaterality respectful of the Economic Concert, as regards the way in which it interprets these new funds of autonomous and local financing, and with freedom of pact regarding their applicability within the joint commission, this Royal Decree what it does is to consider the Autonomous Community of Euskadi as a community to which the regulation contained in the Royal Decree-Law applies to the full, without having its own specific space to articulate the financial relationship between the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and the State. With regard to the first subparagraph, it is inexplicable and inconsistent to refer only to the Law on the Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government, since this Law has nothing to do with autonomous financing, only with local entities, so that no exclusive or special appeal to the Economic Concert we have as an autonomous community; then with regard to the Basque Autonomous Community this paragraph of the additional provision does not result in our satisfactory opinion. In relation to the second paragraph, its content is also not respectful of the Economic Concert, and it is unusual to refer only to the Joint Committee on the Concert the possibility of agreeing on the allocation of resources to guarantee the formalised credit operations. This in itself implies a lack of awareness of the way in which the agreements are adopted, and not conventions, within that Joint Committee and, at the same time, a lack of awareness of the financial mechanisms or relations between the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and the State. In this respect, it is clear that the Economic Concert assigns to the Joint Committee on the Concert the adaptation of all those agreements which are necessary in tax and financial matters at all times, as provided for in Article 62. Even more complex seems the applicability of the third paragraph, since its appeal to chapter 3 of Title II of the Royal Decree-Law, the social fund compartment and social spending deductions, confuses a rule that should be of general scope. It is unacceptable for his ministry, pursuant to the third paragraph of this additional provision, to unilaterally retain or reduce Euskadi's tax and financial resources for outstanding autonomous obligations with local entities, which, in our view, constitutes a violation of the economic concert. This first additional provision is therefore incompatible with the system of bilaterality to govern financial relations with the State, with the financing model of Euskadi and its institutions, and from its reading it can be deduced that the will of the State is to equalize the Autonomous Community of Euskadi with the rest of the autonomous communities as regards the applicability of this royal decree-law, mixing financing systems, interventions and control that are incompatible with our financial autonomy and not respecting the particularities of the financial relationship that must exist and that exists between Euskadi and the State. I conclude by pointing out that, although the content of the fourth final provision is not the complete revitalization that is claimed, from the Basque Government or from this parliamentary group, in relation to the Foronda airport - we call for the opening for 24 hours and also with staff for 24 hours - the reduction in the rates envisaged in this measure seems to us to be a considerable boost for that airport and we therefore welcome it even if we continue to fight for this more ambitious objective. For all this, considering that many public administrations may be interested in going to the funds on strictly financial matters or because the markets are closed, as you have proposed, and considering also what has been said before by our parliamentary group, we are going to abstain in the vote on this royal decree-law.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Álvaro Anchuelo has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if it were possible to amend the royal decrees the first thing we would propose would be an amendment to the title of this royal decree. If we title this royal decree: Royal decree to finance the electoral expenditure of autonomous communities and municipalities in the 2015 elections, all of us here and the citizens who listen to us would know better what we are actually talking about. It is convenient to understand this royal decree to put it in context and historical perspective, because what is being done here is to take the last steps on a path that leads instead of correcting the design defects of our autonomic system to exacerbate and worsen their design defects. We will remember very briefly where we come from and where we are and will better understand how this royal decree continues to advance in that path of worsening the autonomic design and the perverse incentives it contains. Before the crisis it was already known that one of the problems of the design of the autonomous state was the lack of fiscal co-responsibility of the communities: they spend but do not suffer the unpopularity of collecting. They also have a very quick budget restriction because if they need resources they receive new resources with continuous changes to the rules of the game. That is why it is not surprising that before the crisis, in the years of the financial bubble, autonomous spending increased with the construction of genuine mini-states with advisory councils, accounting courts, economic and social councils. Nor is it surprising that when that bubble burst and the revenues sank the autonomous communities continued to spend, as if nothing happened, to the extent of hiding bills in the drawers or to the extent of losing access to the financial markets and being unable to continue to finance themselves. One might think that one of the few good things about crises would be that we would learn some lessons and recognize some flaws and correct them. That reform was, on the one hand, essential if we were to avoid social cuts. UPyD has been proposing, for years, to eliminate that superfluous expenditure on unnecessary bureaucratic structures. Everyone is outraged by the Advisory Council of the Community of Madrid - which follows, by the way - because it is an example among thousands of unnecessary expenses. But it was not only essential to avoid cutting other major costs, but it was possible because the Budget Stability Act, which we amended and voted for - although we wanted a more ambitious version - made it possible to undertake these reforms. However, you have not had the political will to use this law, and this is not just UPyD: in the recommendations of the European Union you wonder why the possibilities of the Budget Stability Act are no longer being used; it is that in Airef reports you wonder why preventive measures are not taken in non-compliance communities. You have not had the political will to use all the possibilities of that law. Why? The only logical answer is that you are judge and party; you come here and say that you are going to order the autonomic outbursts, but much of those autonomic outbursts have occurred in communities governed by the People's Party - the case of Valencia is the most spectacular -. That's why the path you've chosen is a very different one. Instead of using the possibilities of the Budget Stability Act has opted for a massive bailout - even if you say there is no bailout, we are already used to the denial of reality -: Supplier fund, FLA, advances, delays... It is difficult to remember but their own spokespersons in the budget debate spoke of a rescue of 160 billion euros; 160 billion euros of which they presumed; a fabulous magnitude when put in perspective with other figures that are considered intractable. And it is not only a massive rescue, but an insufficiently conditioned rescue, with adjustment plans that fail, with deficit targets that have been exceeded before the end of the year, with structures that have not only been corrected, but are still being created; today, the Catalan Tax Agency, because the autonomous community needs state structures and increases its endowment by 50%. A massive rescue and insufficiently conditioned. We can now come to a better understanding of this royal decree. What does this royal decree do? Continue on that path; instead of correcting the design defects of the autonomous state, exacerbate them, make them worse. What are we proposing here? On the one hand, reorder existing funds. It's okay to rearrange, but it's that in doing the rearrangement we realize all the mechanisms that have been used, because two funds are reordered, one for communities and one for local entities, but there are compartments in each fund. At the bottom of the communities there are four compartments; at the bottom of the local entities there are three compartments. It takes seven subdivisions to reorder all of this. We also realize what we have been saying for a long time, that you say this is extraordinary, exceptional, but it becomes permanent; an old Spanish tradition: there is nothing more lasting than the transitory. Here we follow one year after another with: it's the last, I promise you, it's the last. The extraordinary becomes permanent. We also appreciate that this issue is a bottomless well because we have just approved - of you, with your votes, with your absolute majority - the General Budgets of the State for the year 2015 and there the FLA was endowed with 21 billion euros, and twenty days of the year 2015 have passed and this fund is extended to 38,869 million for autonomous communities and 1,000 more for local entities. Once again the State Budgets are out of date within a few days of starting to run and once again you find money for what you want: if we propose a plan against child poverty it turns out to be inconceivable, but if we have to find tens of billions to rescue administrations instead of people they find themselves without any difficulty. We are also proposing to expand the coverage of these funds. And it extends to everything imaginable and unimaginable also because the state is going to assume debt that was debt between communities and local entities, debt between communities and financial entities. The State assumes all types of debts that did not correspond to it, including among other administrations. And the most striking thing, you have pointed out and also the media, is that it is financed at zero interest rate, free, this year's new debt and the accumulated debt of previous years. Look, for free, not even at the Treasury's interest rate. Free. The State is in debt instead of others and that indebtedness, that money provides it for free to communities and municipalities. I would like to dwell on the analysis of this issue because it has more consequences than it may seem at first sight. Firstly, this amounts - some Members may have to sanctify themselves with what I am going to say - to a debt relief. A partial, implicit, categorize it as you like, but it's a take; you tell the debtors that you forgive them the interests of one or three years. This is a debt relief. However, on the subject of the second chance, of people with intractable mortgages, the removal is anathema, anyone who says the word is an absolute irresponsible for many nuances that imply the issue. The second consequence of this measure, which may seem to be balady and is not: it introduces new perverse incentives into our autonomous system, because you are rewarding the most non-compliant, the most indebted. And this is not just me, it is also said by his colleagues in the People's Party of the Community of Madrid. Indeed, if he forgives interest on the debt, he benefits the most from the debt, the most he has failed, particularly Catalonia, whose representatives - some of them - are very outraged by this measure but benefit from 1.8 billion of the 5.5 billion savings that this entails. It involves a discriminatory treatment between communities but also a perverse incentive: if you fail, I reward you more. And another question pointed out to you by your party colleagues from the Madrid Community: you distribute resources arbitrarily. It has decided not to reform the autonomous financing system, which could be reformed, and it has decided to distribute resources arbitrarily and generating perverse incentives, as his colleagues in the People's Party of the Madrid Community point out. All of this exacerbates the perverse incentives of our autonomous system and, if it is very complex for citizens to have autonomous funding, a simpler example: the health cent. It was collected by the communities, the Court of Justice of the European Union decided that it was illegal and the State returned what the communities had collected, which is a competitive mixture that is already impossible to understand. To sum up: you, Minister of Finance, are giving local communities and entities a message: in the year 2015 there are elections and I will give them resources to spend more and more on the most non-compliant ones; moreover, do not worry because, at the end of the day, I will rescue them. It seems to us an irresponsible message, a harmful message, a message that generates perverse incentives and worsens the design of our autonomous model and, therefore, we will vote no to this royal decree. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the United Left Parliamentary Group, Initiative per Catalunya Verds-Esquerra Unita i Alternativa, Chunta Aragonesista: The Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are debating today in this House a decree that is a clear recognition of the previous mistakes by this Government. In fact, it is an amendment to the strategy that this Government has taken in relation to the economic situation of the autonomous communities and also of local corporations. We are facing a restructuring of the financial aid funds, but also a form of debt restructuring generated by those funds in the past. How much we would have saved if the Government had brought these ideas earlier, how much municipal corporations and self-governments would have been saved if the Government had listened earlier to comments that proposed more reasonable funding formulas. Our parliamentary group welcomes some specific elements of this decree that will help the Autonomous Communities and the municipalities. Their financial situation is critical, they are drowned and not only because of the unfavourable economic situation but also because the Financing Act is clearly insufficient to maintain a political structure like that of Spain. In any case, any financial aid from the State and its mechanisms will be aid to citizens who are - we are - users of basic public services. This is very important, especially since saturation in hospitals and mass in schools is a permanent reality throughout the State. Something needs to be done and, no doubt, alleviating the burden of debt and its interests is a positive element. It is also surprising that the Government has finally decided to make active use of the mechanism of public financial intermediation, even through the Official Credit Institute. I hope that this will enable the Government to understand that the private financial system is not in a position to guarantee funding to address the social problems of this country. The private financial sector is only looking for as much profitability as possible and this can lead - and unfortunately often happens - to overrun public services. That is why the enormous satisfaction with which the Government is talking about mechanisms such as the Vendor Plan is incomprehensible, when it is evident that it entails increased funding for the State and unjustified enrichment of private banking. On the other hand, we welcome the inclusion to some extent of economic stimulus programmes, although only for some municipalities. The Government should in any case understand that well-designed economic stimulus is the main tool for combating public deficits. That is why it is also incomprehensible that this decree retains an enormous regressive conditionality for all the institutions that welcome the plans, because, in the end, this conditionality translates only into adjustment plans that violate the social and democratic rights - in short, their sovereignty - of the entities actually rescued, even if the Minister has denied it in his intervention. The Government had not learned, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court had admitted the appeal lodged by the Ombudsman at the United Left. We recall that that remedy was against a Government decree that violated municipal sovereignty in order to implement adjustment plans without its consent. These aren't the ways. Democracy is in no way below bank requirements. Our economy, communities and municipalities need a solution, but it will not come through the adjustment plans; these plans actually involve cuts in public services, including privatizations and, ultimately, a decline in the quality of life of citizens. Therefore, this decree is not a solution, it is a mere relief to a slow suffering, and to the extent that it is a relief we cannot position ourselves against, as other groups have already announced, but, Mr Montoro, this is not the solution, at least not for the citizens we believe in public services. [[The lady]] In short, Mr Montoro, it has become clear in your speech that you are making the need for virtue. It has denied the rescue to the autonomous communities, which is a reality, a rescue that has had to arrive for a chronic financial insufficiency. A chronic financial insufficiency that is not managed with what, in short, is a policy of covering holes, which is what the Government brings us here: to consolidate once again, to continue with instruments that have been announced provisional and that are being transformed into definitive ones. What the whole state, Mr Montoro, needs for a good trip is a reform of the financing system of the autonomous communities and also of the local entities, not that each budget year we continue to depend on your magnanimity and the imposition of rules with which you want to subjugate autonomous communities and municipalities. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u38	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister for Finance and Public Administrations, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Parliamentary Group on Convergence i Union with regard to this royal decree of measures aimed at the financial sustainability of the autonomous communities and local corporations is that it has some positive aspects from the formal point of view, but at the same time we will raise some general considerations of a certain political depth that we would like to express in this process of validation of this royal decree. As positive measures, we would like to stress that it will provide some relief for the different autonomous communities and local corporations, since this royal decree will enable the autonomous communities and local corporations to be in debt from 2015 onwards with a zero interest rate that will be borne by the General Administration of the State and at the same time will be able to enjoy medium-term credits with the possibility that there will be shortfalls in the first years; that is, that in the first year, from an economic and financial point of view, neither capital nor interest can be amortized. For the Generalitat de Catalunya, it is obvious that it is going to entail a significant saving of financial resources from the perspective of saving interest, savings ranging from 300 to 525 million, and at the same time it must also be recognized that from the point of view of sanitation and liquidity of local corporations it will also imply a considerable relief, because they will have in their financial perspectives throughout the year the possibility of not paying the interest rates of the credits they have requested to finance their circulations. Therefore, given that we are in a totally electoral year, in Convergence i Unió we cannot fail to consider some measures - as I have just mentioned - as positive, as measures that will alleviate the finances of local corporations and the Generalitat de Catalunya. If we were talking from the medical point of view, Minister, I would say that this royal decree presupposes for local and autonomous finances an ibuprofen, that it will logically alleviate the malnutrition produced by the lack of proteins and economic resources in the weak finances of the autonomous communities and local corporations, but, Minister, you know perfectly well, and will agree with us, that what the finances of the local corporations and the autonomous communities need are not ibuprofens, they are proteins, they are revenues that allow them to meet their expenses corresponding to health, education and social services. You know perfectly well, Minister, that this type of social expenditure is dealt with solely and exclusively by the autonomous communities and local corporations. Therefore, Minister, you should bear in mind that, regardless of whether this is going to involve an ibuprofen, a considerable relief for the poor health of the finances of these local corporations and these autonomous communities, what these local corporations and these autonomous communities need are income, they are financial resources; in short, they are proteins, which we are demanding and we have raised throughout this legislature. We consider it a good thing, Minister, that the Government, through this royal decree, makes the implicit recognition that the autonomous communities and local corporations are simply and simply poorly financed, and for this reason we are glad that a measure raises these kinds of resolutions, but at the same time, in Convergence i Unió we want to radically reject the chronic will of this Government to increase the control of the central administration to the other administrations, which each day have less autonomy. You, Minister, who are such defenders of the Constitution, know perfectly well that the Constitution enshrines financial autonomy for the autonomous communities and local authorities. With this royal decree the autonomous communities cease to be able to carry out long-term debt operations and will only be able to manage the debt of their circulation. This is not a consensual constitutional path, Minister. You are changing the model by the back door and in the case of Catalonia, Minister, these government disloyalties only lead to radicalizing mistrust and answers, because, unlike perhaps what may happen in other territories of the State, the will to exercise self-government in Catalonia is total and absolute. Minister, without financial autonomy it is impossible, it is impossible to exercise political autonomy to meet all the costs of health, education and social services. And, Minister, without financial autonomy and political autonomy we are dynamising the foundations of the current Constitution, as I have just mentioned. Now I'd like to give you some background reflections. Why have we come to this situation, Minister? Would we have come to this situation of validating real decrees to finance autonomous communities, to finance suppliers, to finance municipalities if you had the courage to put in place a new financing system throughout 2014? Would these kinds of royal decrees have been necessary that can be understood as giving alms to the autonomous communities, which give financial air so that they can meet all their expenses? Why have they not raised in this House and in this legislature an issue that is marked by the Constitution as that a funding system can be proposed every five years? Another question, Minister. Why will the state from 2012 to 2015, a time of crisis, increase its revenues by more than 30 billion euros in direct taxes and indirect taxes and these 30 billion euros remain unique and exclusively the state from the perspective that they have only raised it in the state section? Are the autonomous communities and the municipalities not going to see one euro of these direct and indirect tax increases of more than 30 billion euros? Why, Minister? And how is it possible in this context of constant increase of the revenues of the Central Administration that the payments on account that the Generalitat will receive in the year 2015 in terms of the participation of the revenues of the State are inferior to those of the year 2013? She's an unknown girl who hasn't revealed us in her speech. Why has the State not yet paid the Generalitat 759 million of the third additional provision of the Statute for 2008, something approved in a joint State-Generalitat bilateral commission that has the status of draft law or organic law? Why haven't these 759 million been settled? And I say the same to you, Minister, with regard to the debt of 3.207 million pesetas corresponding to the third additional provision for the period 2009-2013. Why hasn't the government recognized them yet? Why did the Generalitat not charge a euro from the Competitiveness Fund for this year in 2014? She's another unknown girl who hasn't revealed us. Why does the government plan to postpone until 2017 what it has to pay to the Generalitat for the 2015 Competitiveness Fund? If you had the political courage to legislate during this time when you had absolute majority you would surely have been unnecessary these royal decrees. I consider them positive - I said this at the beginning of my speech - but they would not have been necessary if we had done the duties of putting forward these new financing systems, of sharing the tax increases you have raised with the autonomous communities and the municipalities. From this perspective, Minister, the revenues of the state are jealously kept under the property of the central administration, and they are being distributed in a scar when it suits you, as in this electoral period, for example, the autonomous communities and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u40	Mr. Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u41	I'm finishing up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u42	Don't threaten me. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u43	We could have avoided this perfectly and for this reason, despite considering the measures you have announced positive, we are going to abstain from this validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u44	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Mr Saura has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, what does this royal decree-law reveal? In our opinion, two things. First, the Government eludes one of the fundamental problems of the sustainability of the welfare state, of the sustainability of the autonomous accounts: the reform of the autonomous financing system, which should have been approved in 2014, and more in view of the fact that you, your party and your Government have absolute majority in these Courts. Social cohesion is not a priority, the welfare state is not a priority, as is shown. Unfortunately, Minister, according to international statistics, we are the champions of inequality and that does not lay the basis for sustained growth over time, as well as being unfair. That is the first problem of this royal decree, the first consequence. Secondly, with this decree-law, Mr Montoro, you give the point to the Budget Stability Act, to your law. It is a law that lasts only three years and you give it the point, not only because of its results; not only because the public debt is above 96% in relation to GDP when the Budget Stability Act says that in 2020 the public debt has to be set at 60%; not only because of the debt of the autonomous communities, which according to that law had to be adjusted to 13% in relation to GDP and is already at 23%; not only because of the non-compliances that the European Commission and the fiscal authority account for, also because of their changes and modifications, about twelve years in between changes in organic law, laws, real decrees and orders. And non-minor changes; for example, making exceptions to the non-rescue clause, Minister. Therefore, with this royal decree he ends by giving the dot to his Budget Stability Act. I already told you when your Budget Stability Act, Minister, was passed that it was an ideological and tremendously hard law to please the markets and that it was not going to comply, and in fact it is largely not being complied with and, as a result, among other things, it does not generate confidence in the markets and in the European institutions. Because, Mr Montoro, it is true that the cost of financing the Spanish public debt has fallen, yes, but that of all the countries of the developed world and particularly that of the peripheral countries of Europe, mainly because the policy of the European Central Bank has changed. Therefore, do not confuse its policy and the consequences of its budgetary policy. Like I said, they weren't going to comply. We told you in the debate on the Budget Stability Act, you yourself were not going to comply with your Budget Stability Act. But also the changes that you are bringing us now, Mr Montoro, Minister, are very important: on the institutional framework of the state of self-government and on autonomous financing. I say this because you said that two funds were to be created in 2012: the Autonomic Liquidity Fund and the Supplier Payment Fund. And he also said they were going to be temporary. However, they now become permanent, and that the Supplier Payment Fund has had three phases and the FLA was extended until the end of 2014. Where previously there were two funds, Minister, there are now seven funds, which are in addition to those of guarantee, sufficiency, cooperation and competitiveness of the current model of autonomous financing. They used to be called liquidity funds and now they're called autonomous funds. From our point of view, not only are they normative changes, there is a change of model towards recentralization in the face of the autonomy of the autonomous communities. I explain: in this case, in these funds the use of the Treasury by the autonomous communities becomes permanent. The Government therefore has an effective level of control over the priorities of expenditure of the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, one more patch in order not to address the reform of autonomous financing, one more patch in order to limit the autonomy of the autonomous communities and one more patch in order not to comply with its Budget Stability Act. To demonstrate the patch of the autonomous funding system they want to put forward with this royal decree-law and the falsification of savings by the autonomous communities I will not use figures or arguments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I will use some public statements of some of the leaders of your party. Mr Gonzalez, President of the Community of Madrid, said that Montoro invented the data, and the Economics Adviser of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, Mr Ossorio, called for the reform of the financing system because - he said - this was a patch. But the statements do not end there, Mr Herrera, president of the Autonomous Community of Castile and León, accuses Montoro of giving false data and manipulating the conference of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. He adds - and no representative of the Socialist Party says so - that the autonomous executive is outraged with Mr Montoro. Minister, today I am really curious to know what some Members, especially those from the PP of Castilla y León and Madrid, are going to vote with you or Mr González, whether they are going to vote with you or Mr Herrera, I am really curious. In short, Mr Montoro, it is a patch to finance a large part of the welfare state, such as the financing of the autonomous communities. Their policies are regressive, because on the income side what have gone up? Taxes have gone up a lot, but what taxes? Direct taxes, indirect taxes and basically VAT, at EUR 19 billion. On the expenditure side, discretionary public expenditure, which has to do with education, with health, with the Unit Act, between 2011 and 2013 has been reduced by EUR 12.3 billion, according to IGAE. Regressiveness, regressive fiscal policy. But this aroma of regressivity is also noted in the royal decree, because extending the flat rate of work is regressive: the benefit is to the workers with more income, to the detriment of the workers with less income. It is also regressive because it eschews the Pension Guarantee Fund, i.e. it goes against pensioners. Regression, that is the word, the mark of the People's Party house: to increase from the government the social gap between the highest and lowest incomes, between the most powerful and the middle and workers' incomes. Moreover, there is no gain in job stability, because job insecurity is increasing; in the last year the average duration of an employment contract was fifty-four days and 25% of employment contracts had a duration of less than one week; then more inequality. We are Europe's champions in inequality. That does not lay the foundations for sustained growth over time. Regression is the hallmark of government policy. With regard to the substance of this royal decree which has to do with autonomous financing, with the patch to the model of autonomous financing, Mr Montoro, I have not only used the arguments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but there are presidents of their autonomous communities who say that it is indeed a patch and that the numbers are false, that you have manipulated the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Mr Montoro, what you have to bring here - you are not going to bring it - is an in-depth reform of the autonomous financing system, because that is what will give sustainability to the welfare state. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u46	Thank you, Mr. Saura. For the People's Group, Mr Matarí.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law presented to us today by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration confirms the commitment of the Government of Spain to the sustainability of public accounts, to the state of autonomy of the 1978 Constitution, to the efficient management of public administrations and, in a very special and priority way, ladies and gentlemen, is the unequivocal expression of the commitment to the sustainability of essential public services - health, education and social services - to which the autonomous communities and local authorities allocate most of their budget. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the legislature the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance - Mr Montoro will certainly not leave me as a liar - have been very clear; demanding, yes, but above all very loyal with autonomous communities and with local entities. At the same time as it required commitment to budgetary stability and deficit targets, important steps were being taken and we can now say that effective measures to ensure the liquidity and sustainability of territorial administrations, which is the same, ladies and gentlemen, as the viability and sustainability of the essential public services that make up our Spanish welfare system. From the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration - this is a great merit of the minister and of his entire team, to which I would like to congratulate on behalf of the People's Group - a huge task is being promoted to achieve the consolidation of the Spanish public accounts, of all, simply because it was and continues to be an essential condition for the consolidation of the Spanish economy and for the exit of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, on the road from recession to growth, from destruction to job creation, which is the road that Spain has gone through in these three years of President Rajoy's government, they have much to do with, first of all, the Spaniards, who have made great sacrifices and many efforts, and, secondly, the responsible behaviour of the majority of public administrations, who have made significant progress in reducing the deficit and reducing the public sector. Here are the data: by 20 billion the autonomous communities have reduced their deficit; a surplus of more than 5 billion present the local entities today; 18 billion savings that have entailed the measures of the reform of the Administration, Mr Anchouelo; 1.7 billion savings for citizens and businesses due to the lower bureaucratic burdens and more than 2,000 public entities that have been eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole process of consolidation under a number of principles which the Government and the majority of the People's Group have become laws, it is true that with the specific support of some parliamentary group, not of course the Socialist Group, it has been made under principles which were not practiced in previous years; I mean, for example, not spending more than what is entered - the Budget Stability Act -. Mr Saura defended her today in this rostrum, and she was voted against. What things! They're really lost, Mr. Saura. Other principles include: paying what is due in time and form - there is the Commercial Debt Control Act and the Electronic Bills Act - competition clarification, elimination of duplication and reduction of the public sector, administration reform and local reform; maximum transparency at the service of citizens, the Transparency Act; ensuring financial sustainability in the provision of public services, all financing and liquidity mechanisms. Under these principles, fiscal consolidation has been successfully promoted and funding provided to territorial entities to ensure the provision of basic public services through various extraordinary liquidity mechanisms, such as the one we are approving today. An institutional framework conducive to budgetary stability has been created which has enabled us to fulfil our commitments to the European Union: to build confidence, to regain credibility, to start growing and to create jobs, which is what is happening now in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2012 the People's Party Government has put in place a number of funding mechanisms for territorial administrations; first of all, the Fund for the financing of payments to suppliers, the best possible employment plan, Mr Saura. Or was Plan E better, Mr. Saura? [[Applauds]] That plan was done by the People's Party Government and the Minister referred to it. I am not going to repeat the figures, but I am going to add two things. Just a month after the Government of Spain assumed the People's Party, the Council of Ministers of 20 January received the first report from the Minister to launch this mechanism. About the same some - those who did not know how to arbitrate measures when they were ruling -, when this fund was approved on March 29 - abstained They abstained - they said - by liability and pointed out textually: We do not like this improvised and plummeting mechanism, legally bad, expensive for the municipalities and the citizens who will pay many more taxes and will see the provision of the services they receive deteriorated. [[Mr Zarrías, who is not here at the moment, will remember well.]] You did not like or like measures and did not support them, but the autonomous communities that govern the PSOE do use them, as well as the municipalities governed by the PSOE, logically. Andalusia, for example, between 2012 and 2014, has received 20,750 million in liquidity and has been saved with the Government's measures almost a billion euros, 922. What are you going to vote for, Mr. Saura? What will your group vote on? This group is going to vote - all of them - on this validation, of course. Secondly, regarding the Autonomic Liquidity Fund - to which the Minister has also referred, and some group always talks, as today, about rescue to the autonomous communities - today has also added electoral expenditure for 2015. And 2012, 2013 and 2014, Mr. Anchuelo? As Mr Montoro has said, no autonomous community is rescued. Citizens are rescued, because the Government of Spain has an obligation to ensure the general interest; and to ensure the general interest is to ensure the provision of basic public services to citizens, live where they live, on an equal footing, regardless - I insist - of their place of residence, and also, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the irresponsibility and dream of some autonomous leader. It's true. Mr Sánchez i Llibre spoke of loyalty. The loyalty of the president of some autonomous community leaves much to be desired. This autonomous community is precisely the most benefited by the creation of these funds and by the extraordinary liquidity measures offered by the Government to the autonomous communities. Faced with this disloyalty is the responsibility of the Government of Spain, which is to think only and exclusively of the citizens living in Catalonia, who need to know, Mr Bosch, that thanks to the Government of Spain, presided over by Mariano Rajoy, today they have guaranteed health, education, social services, the payroll of public employees, etc. While some of them are dedicated to dividing Catalan society and to proposing chimeras that do not have a constitutional link, the Government of Spain is dedicated to ensuring that the basic public services of citizens living in Catalonia continue to be provided. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, with these two funds, extraordinary liquidity measures have been taken which have improved the financial situation of public administrations. That's what happens to this royal decree-law that we validate today. The Government is transferring to the autonomous communities and to the local entities the improvement of the state's financial situation, which has been made possible by the economic policy and structural reforms approved by the Government for three years; reforms that have made it possible to regain the credibility of Spain and confidence in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, things do not happen by chance and improvements are the result of reforms by the People's Party Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already explained the content of the decree-law that we validate today and the reasons we share for its urgency. This new decree-law effectively helps the autonomous communities and local entities, but above all - the minister said - it helps the citizens so that they can continue to receive the best public services and also ensure that they do so on equal terms regardless - I insist - of their place of residence. Ladies and gentlemen, the debt of the territorial administrations, even if it is the responsibility of each of them, is also, as Mr Montoro said, the debt of the State. Spain is all of us, so at a time of historically low interest rates the State temporarily assumes the financing of all territorial administrations, with considerable savings for all of them and for the whole State. As Mr Montoro has pointed out, it is a very important accumulated savings: for the autonomous communities 5,800 million, for the local entities 1,600 million; in total 7,432 million euros of savings, made possible by the liquidity mechanisms approved by the Government of Spain. I conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some the autonomous communities and local entities were or are a problem, for us they have never been. We have always said that some had difficulties and continue to have them, but it is also true that in a much smaller dimension after three years of government, in which the responsible effort of the autonomous communities and the measures of the Government have been joined, which has made available to it a set of financing and liquidity mechanisms to boost growth and ensure the provision of basic public services. I'm done, Madam President. President Rajoy and the Minister of Finance since the beginning of this legislature have made it very clear that the Government of Spain was responsible for all public accounts, and so it has been. Spain has responded as it is, a serious and reliable country, because it has a responsible government, supported by a majority of the People's Party, which is - every day it becomes more evident - the only guarantee of stability and progress for Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u48	Thank you, Mr. Matarí. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 16/2014 OF 19 DECEMBER, RELATING TO THE WORK PROGRAMME FOR EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u49	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, which regulates the activation programme for employment. The Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor for her presentation and defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you this afternoon to present this Royal Decree 16/2014, for its validation by this House, which regulates the activation programme for employment; a programme which, I would like to acknowledge, is the result of joint work and continuous and responsible dialogue with the Autonomous Communities and, in particular, with the social partners. It is proof that collaboration is the best answer to address one of the problems that worries the Spaniards most, such as unemployment, especially when it comes to those who take longer because they are unemployed for a long time and also have family responsibilities. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, continues to consolidate its recovery. We started 2015 with economic growth, with prospects to increase it, thinking about what happened in 2014, and also with good prospects for job creation. Growth is therefore undoubtedly translating into employment opportunities. Today in our country with growth below 2%, net employment is being created for the first time in our economic history. This is attested to by the last two labour force surveys which show that job creation exceeds more than half a million jobs. If we take into account the registered unemployment and social security membership data for 2014, for the first time in seven years of crisis, the unemployment rate dropped by more than 350,000 people and rose by more than 417,000. We are therefore in the right direction, growing and creating employment opportunities. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a long way to go, we have many opportunities to find for those billions of Spaniards who do not yet have a job. We cannot stop working, adding will with the social partners, also with the autonomous communities, in favour of employment, so that those who do not yet have a job can find it as soon as possible. We are therefore in the right direction but we also continue to work for these employment opportunities. We have to be closer, if any, to those who have the most difficulty, to those who have the least opportunity because they are more vulnerable when they return to the labour market. This was also reflected in President Rajoy's July agreement in Moncloa with the social partners, that proposal agreement for tripartite negotiations and to strengthen economic growth and employment. In that agreement, there was a clear will on the part of everyone, the social partners and the Government, to promote a sincere dialogue in various areas, from economic policy at European level, the industrial agenda and fiscal and budgetary policy in our country, to concrete measures in the field of the labour market, which are, if you want, the most important part of that agreement with the President of the Government, of that tripartite agreement last July. Among the measures we have put in place, which we are working together, this extraordinary programme of activation for employment, defined together, as I said, with the social partners and approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 December, which I am presenting today for validation. It is a programme whose fundamental characteristic is the result of this collaboration of all, autonomous communities, which are inseparable companions every time we move forward, which we want to move forward in terms of activation for employment. We have also done so in other projects, such as the single employment and self-employment portal, with more than 80,000 vacancies, a single employment portal for the first time in our country; the implementation in Spain of the national youth guarantee system, which is undoubtedly supported by this solidarity and shared effort between the Government and autonomous communities. We are contributing to public-private collaboration, an axis of work, promoting work intermediation. In all these cases are autonomy, the autonomous authorities are the competent authorities in much of what will be the development of the activation programme. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank again all the support, all the commitment and all the effort and participation of each and every one of the autonomous communities of Spain. As you are well aware, the programme started on 15 January and the different potential beneficiaries can be requested to join until 15 April 2016. It has a key and fundamental objective, which is to activate those people who have more time in unemployment, who are unemployed for a long time, and who have family members in charge. It is aimed at those unemployed who have had the most time in unemployment, who have had family responsibilities and who have exhausted all their protection tools for more than six months, all the protection afforded to them by unemployment benefits and subsidies in the field of employment, which is precisely why they are faced with a special difficulty in returning to the labour market. According to data from the registers of the public employment services, more than 400,000 people throughout the national territory are currently potential beneficiaries of this programme. The programme aims to promote the job recovery of this group of unemployed people through a more personalized and modern design, through personalized integration itineraries, adjusted to their professional profiles to help them in this transition to employment. One of the main developments I want to highlight this afternoon is that these beneficiaries will have for the first time a personal tutor who will assign to them public employment services, as has been done in other countries of the European environment. We believe that this figure of the tutor is important from the first initial interview that is conducted to the applicants' follow-up and participation throughout the personal itinerary, as well as to identify together the possible adjustments and the possible orientation to promote success, which is nothing other than to return as soon as possible to the labour market. [[Denmark, the Netherlands, Ireland or Austria]] In short, we are talking about any beneficiary having a reference person who can guide him in this transition from unemployment to employment. The autonomous communities together with the State Employment Public Service are already working, defining those services that people are receiving to make all the elements available to those who need this express return, because they are the most vulnerable to return to the labour market. [[guidance, training, employment opportunities]] In addition, your ladies and gentlemen are well aware that, in addition to participating in this programme for six months, it will provide the beneficiaries with financial support, which is equivalent to 80% of Iprem. Another basic characteristic of the programme is the effort and shared commitment of the parties involved in this process of return to employment: the beneficiaries themselves, who are undoubtedly the most committed to their own activation in the search for that desired job and who, thanks to the programme, will take decisive steps in the return to employment, as well as the competent authorities in the field of employment, whether autonomous communities or the State Public Employment Service, aware of the difficulties that this group has experienced up to here. That is why we make available to you as a matter of priority all the tools we have at our disposal to make this activation possible, closer and quicker and to seek the effectiveness and result of this extraordinary activation programme. In addition to the orientation and training work, which will be intensified for this group, one of the most innovative elements introduced by the programme is the possibility of making economic income compatible with a contract. In other words, the beneficiaries will be able to continue to receive the entire accompanying income supplemented by the company with the corresponding salary so that it is a motivating experience for all parties. If you want, ladies and gentlemen, as the interlocutors said in the dialogue sessions and in agreement, companies will be complicit in the activation of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, this programme requires, as I said to you, the efforts of all, the commitment of all, and that is why the autonomous communities will have all the necessary resources. We have made an effort in the General State Budgets for 2015, which already reflect an increase of 16.8% in all the items devoted to active policies; those which will essentially allow personalized itineraries, training measures adapted to the real needs of this group and also for mediation projects. I would also like to point out that these amounts for activation policies that will be distributed from the Ministry of Employment to the autonomous communities, as is done annually at the sectoral conference, mean even a greater increase in the transmission of resources by 25.4% assumed by the Government of Spain. It is also the Ministry itself, the Government of Spain itself, which will also finance the income that accompanies workers throughout their return to employment process according to the duration set out in the programme. The economic impact of this programme, according to the data we have from the public employment registers, estimates that 270,000 people can start to benefit from the activation programme since its launch, since last week; almost 135,000 more people will be incorporated throughout its duration. That would add the more than 400,000 beneficiaries I told them at the beginning of my intervention. The economic estimate of this investment in the people made by the Government of Spain is more than 1 billion euros, which we believe are fundamental for activation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a determined and important effort, as is the challenge and commitment that we all have ahead. We are making a great deal of progress, but we must continue to build opportunities for the millions of workers who still do not have jobs. This programme of special activation for those who have the most difficulty is the result of dialogue, the continuous work of social partners and autonomous communities. Thus, we must continue to work together so that those Spaniards who do not have those employment opportunities find them as soon as possible. The challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is to save time. That is why we will continue to work with the social partners on the next reform agenda, such as the reform of the vocational training system for employment, because today workers' training is key to their employability, to the recovery of opportunities in the form of integration into the labour market. As you know very well, we have been working for months, throughout 2014, to have a model that is based on transparency in management, free competition, the right of workers to quality training according to the needs of the productive fabric and also on continuing vocational training for employment in assessment to be more effective among all. We know that the challenge ahead and the problems are not simple but I also tell you with all honesty that working together, adding will, the problem of unemployment, the problem of unemployment, is easier. It is a challenge that we must overcome the whole of Spanish society with dialogue, seeking efficiency and with shared commitment by all. I am sure that, together with the efforts made in the social dialogue and also in the sectoral conference with the autonomous communities, this exceptional programme for the most vulnerable people, who have long been unemployed with family responsibilities, will also find the majority support of this House, because the challenge of employment is the challenge of all of us and of all of Spanish society. [[The Lord]] Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u51	He has requested to use the turn against the Group of the Plural Left. Mr Coscubiela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Firstly, our group, La Izquierda Plural, wants to make it clear that it welcomes the fact that the trade unions have forced the government to deal with a situation as dramatic as 43 % of the people who have stopped without receiving any benefit. Secondly, I believe that it is clear that the Government is bringing us today a correction - modest, but rectification - of its policy of cutting the rights of the unemployed, a policy pursued for three years by machamartillo. But this is a partial rectification, and it is only a scant and very scarring return of the rights usurped by the Government to the people stopped at the stroke of decrees and, worse, at the stroke of a decree-law which also involved the rescue of the banking entities of this country. Minister, having more than 2 million people stopped without any kind of benefit is not a biblical curse, nor is it the only consequence of the crisis and its enquisition, the result of the Rajoy government's cut-off policies. The Plural Left was warned in the debate of Decree-Law 20/2012 and, unfortunately, what we said to him has been fulfilled: there has been a scandalous reduction in the coverage of the provision of the unemployed. And this is not an accident - we insist - but another hidden success of the People's Party's policy: reducing the beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit is one of its hidden measures, which they did not explain, although it was the real objective within the framework of its policy of budgetary stability and wage degradation. We are therefore pleased today that people who do not now perceive anything and do not even have the attention to job search can receive support in their job search and assistance of EUR 426 per month for six months. But, with the same clarity with which we welcome that, we want to make it clear that this is not the decree-law that people who stand still need right now, and not so much for the limitations it contains, that we would like to be able to discuss in its parliamentary process, but above all for what the decree does not contain, so the Government continues to ignore and does not want to address. Since the beginning of the crisis, Minister, the rate of coverage for the unemployed has fallen by 20 points, from 78% to 57%, and especially during this parliamentary term; in addition, the quality of unemployment benefits has fallen: from 4.5 million registered unemployed people, only 2.5 million are receiving benefits and, of these, 60% only receives some subsidy between 400 and 500 euros. But what is more serious for its future, the Government, in July 2012, inconceivably reduced the base of contributions of the minimum subsidy recipients, thus, aggression to its status as unemployed continues with aggression for future pensions. That is not a thing that comes from heaven, it is the fruit of its policies. Between January 2013 and the end of 2014, the monthly cost of unemployment has been reduced from EUR 2,777 million per month to EUR 1,928 million per month. That means savings - savings in quotes - of more than EUR 10 billion a year, to which must be added the forecast of the reduction of the expenditure that you have planned for 2015 by at least EUR 4.5 billion; that is, in three years almost EUR 15 billion less spent on unemployment benefit. Welcome would be this saving if it were as a result of a reduction in the number of people stopped, but that is not so. This saving, Minister, is not a healthy saving because it is not the result of having fewer unemployed, but of having less protection for the unemployed and a higher quality protection. I remind you that the current number of unemployed is practically the same as it was when you passed your decree in July 2012; on the other hand, in relation to that date today there are 540,000 people stopped less by claiming unemployment benefit, and that is the result of your decree. Moreover, if in January 2013 the average expenditure per unemployed person was EUR 928 per month, at the end of 2014 that expenditure fell to EUR 802 per month, 14% less receives each unemployed person as the average benefit. Saving on unemployment, Minister, when there are more and more unemployed people who do not receive any kind of protection, if I may, is a brutality and social pettyness that these people do not deserve. In this context, launching this programme is certainly good news for those who benefit, but it is very bad news for all those who were excluded from the unemployment benefit in July 2012 as a result of their policies and for all those who exclude now, who are not few. In the decree-law of 2012 you put in place a chainsaw that amputated rights to the unemployed and now the government comes to tell us that with these palliative cures the amputation is resolved. No, unfortunately not. Whether there are so many people standing unprotected or with low-quality protection is not an accident in history, it is the result of the will of the Government. Leaving the unemployed unprotected is part of the People's Party's strategy to further force wage degradation. For what? Very simple, you explained it at the time in Decree-Law 20/2012, for the unemployed to accept any kind of salary, even if they are below the poverty line, because they need to be pressured more by withdrawing or reducing their unemployment benefit, and that is what the Government did in July 2012. This is not a free statement on our part; if you read the memory and the explanatory statement of that decree-law and your defense by Mr Montoro you will realize to what extent that was literally said in those terms, but it is also part of the ultra-reactionary ideology with which the PP is currently addressing the unemployment situation. According to you - and you made it very clear at the time - that the unemployed have disincentive protection in the search for employment. They said so during that debate, when they explained that their aim was to encourage job search by the unemployed and to promote active ageing. Said in silver: according to you, people do not have a job because they do not actively seek it and, for them to look for it, the best way is to take them to wages of misery to see if they accept anything else, accept any job, whatever. If I may, this is an argument as perverse as it is cynical, which seeks to blame the unemployed for not having a job and thus remove the responsibility of the public authorities from the lack of employment in this country. As if Spain was currently a country full of jobs that do not cover the unemployed because they are being overprotected. Obviously, that's not the reality. The thirty months since July 2012 have denied this because we currently have 2 million people who, despite not having any benefits and being subjected to a situation of misery, do not work and not because they do not want to, not because they are vague, not because they are not encouraged, but simply because the economy does not create enough employment and because you have not implemented the active employment policies that are needed. Therefore, not even with wages of misery is the job activated. His cynical argument collides with the reality of the street. That is why, now that the Government says that economic recovery has arrived and that we are at the end of the crisis, the time has come to address that social drama. Following the arguments of Mr Rajoy and his Government, they had to punish the weak before and now, as it goes well, they will have to return some of the punishment. Take this opportunity to do so now in relation to the unemployed as well. There are resources for this, Minister. The coverage of people standing still can be covered. I insist, there has been a savings in nineteen months of 10 billion euros and 4.5 billion more plan to save you during 2015. Let us discuss this issue, see which part may not be spent, and see which part may improve the coverage of those unemployed. Please, above all, do not come to us with your typical monks that with less you can do more, because that you will say but the unemployed do not understand it and with less income live worse; or, as you say, that what the unemployed need is employment and not benefits. Of course, I agree that it is, but these are far-reaching arguments because you after or simultaneously reduce unemployment benefits have reduced active policies to a minimum. It is true that in the year 2015 they are set a little, but at the moment what is going to be spent in 2015 is far below what was spent in 2011. In addition, you take the opportunity to privatize public employment services. In this decree-law another significant step is taken to a privatization process in which they give the opportunity to the placement agencies to do business at the expense of seeking employment for those who do not have. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, our group, La Izquierda Plural, is asking you that this decree-law be treated as a bill, and that is in line with the Minister's speech bringing here the value of social concertation. Of course, concertation is important, I wish you would have discovered it at the beginning of the legislature and not attenuated so strongly the rights of workers and the role of trade union organizations. Now they find out about the social concertation, at the end of the legislature. Welcome be your discovery, but see also the opportunity for political dialogue in this House, let us see how we can analyze the improvements of this decree-law that you bring us. We suggest just a few. For example, discuss the requirements set out in this Decree-Law in Article 2 in relation to previous preceptors of the active income of insertion. Our group is convinced that the current regulation that brings us is going to lead to the exclusion of the beneficiaries and we believe that even this exclusion is not wanted by those who have signed the agreement, but that it is going to happen. So let us see how it can be improved. We also want to discuss the perverse effects that the way in which you regulate the incompatibility between this aid and the income of insertion can entail. Of course you can't charge two things, but let's take a look at one of the effects that can happen. In some autonomous communities, unfortunately among them Catalonia, large delays are occurring in the management of the benefit and in some cases there are recognized benefits that take a long time to pay. If you state in this decree-law that the recovery of these minimum income benefits is incompatible with the assistance you are about to propose, there may be a problem of management of incompatibility that will punish those unemployed at the moment. What's less is who's to blame for that, what we have to do is try to avoid that issue. Moreover, it seems to us that the recovery of the aid cannot be conditional upon the unemployed having started the individual itinerary. What has to be required for the individual itinerary? Yes, but condition it, no, because that does not depend only on the unemployed and put a condition on a person in relation to an obligation that does not depend on them, besides being legally barbaric, socially it is an injustice. You know that public employment services are not in a position to address this reality. And I'm sorry, Minister, what you said today that you're going to put a tutor on all the unemployed is to fool them again. You know that it is materially impossible because that would mean expanding the staffing of public employment services. At best, one public employee for 400 unemployed. What's a public employee going to tutor 400 unemployed people? Above all, people cannot be fooled by generating expectations that are not going to be met. Things like this we want to discuss. We want to discuss that the evaluation of this programme is carried out quarterly from the time of its approval, not three months before its end. And why, Minister? Because we are afraid that some of the expectations generated will not be met and if analyzed three months before it is finished it will not give time to make the corrections. But you don't want to, and I'm not surprised, Minister, because today I have to place you to remember your words. Do you remember that we came here to present the renewal of the Preparation? You took it out of your chest to present it as an improvement and explained to us how many beneficiaries you were going to have. In addition, she told us that she was the world's first minister, the first minister in history who made policy assessments and that that was the best of the Prep. Do any Members of this House know of any other assessment or assessment of the Preparation? I don't. You say one thing knowing that after two minutes you don't have to fulfill it and that no one is going to ask you for explanations, and that is why we ask you to do the evaluation in real time. These and many other things deserve a debate in terms of the draft law, which we can positively contribute to strengthening everything that the unions have achieved in social consultation and also to analysing what rights they had in July 2012 we can recover for those unemployed, especially for the forty-five-year-olds who are the great victims of this situation. Frankly, we are offering him a chance for dialogue and I would like the People's Party not to hide behind the government or parapet in social concertation. None of the agents who signed that social settlement agreement is against that being discussed as a bill. Who can be against this decree-law being improved in its handling as a bill? I do not think that anyone, except - of course - those who want to continue to make the cut in the rights of the unemployed their policy of budgetary stability, reducing public spending by that way, or those who believe that the exit from the crisis is going to put pressure on the unemployed to accept a wage of misery. I'm making them a site. I announce to you with all the responsibility with which we have criticized your policy and with the same responsibility with which we have positively valued the role of social consultation and that which the unions have played in this process that our vote will be guided in that sense of responsibility, out of appreciation for the work that the unions have done and also thinking about the people who are going to have rights that they do not now have, but also thinking about those who are going to continue without them. That is why I ask you to accept the bill as a bill, but in any case, if you do not, you will not be able to prevent my group from bringing back here again the debate on the usurped rights of the unemployed in July 2012, which we believe should be restored to you for justice, fairness and because thanks to them the economy of this country can be reactivated through internal consumption. I hope, since they have discovered, even at the end of the legislature, the benefits of social consultation and social dialogue, that they also understand that we are putting forward a proposal for political dialogue and accepting it. Discussing this as a bill does no harm to anyone. You have a network of protection, the absolute majority...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u53	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u54	You have a protection network, you can always say no to everyone, but at least agree to discuss it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr Baldoví has the floor in the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u56	Madam Minister, the figures are stubborn. Expenditure on benefits has fallen in 2014 and the reason is not that there are fewer unemployed, but rather that their protection worsens. The coverage rate in November 2014 is 57.9%, 4 points less than in 2013 and 20 points less than in 2010. In addition, benefit cuts are leading to a decrease in the average amount of the benefit, which is already just EUR 800 per month. There are fewer protected persons with a lower benefit. Faced with this panorama, you present this royal decree, which is nothing more than a plan, a remedy for this government. There are millions of people without anything who need help and this program meets so many requirements that it is not going to reach even less the 400,000 unemployed suggested by the Government, nor with the help of the Virgin of Dew. And on top, as soon as possible, they will start charging in April, because the maximum time to resolve is three months; in April, in the middle of the election period, even if people need it already and there are no paper forms yet. Officials who have to face up know that 90% of applications will be denied because of such restrictive requirements, designed precisely to take out a program and then reach a few people; propaganda, a sign of this government's identity. The requirements are a genuine obstacle race and it is as difficult to access this help as it is to touch the lottery; above they call it a reactivation program for employment. They play with words but they really make fun of people in need. There is social poverty, it affects millions of people and you fight it with patches Sister Virginia, you fight it with adhesive dressings instead of intensive social surgery; that is, with a renewed image, unpublished, with a photo with the unions: I exchange a photo for this alms, a photo with Rajoy, with the minister and with Rosell, of the great employer, who always wets, who always takes off, in this case eating those aids instead of paying salaries, because a significant part of these more than one billion will serve to subsidize wages that should be paid by the companies, since the companies that hire beneficiaries will deduct the amount of the aid from the salary, they will pay it. In short, this decree is not the powerful antibiotic that the unemployed need, it is nothing more than a mere cataplasm, an emplast, an ointment. I'm done. I want to show my full solidarity with the 222 workers of the Bosal company in Sagunto, who today have put on this shirt because with their reform, a profitable multinational, with profits and who received public support they were allowed to make an ERE and now they are allowed to throw them out on the street; 200 workers with an irritating cost and with their virtually exhausted social benefits. [[shows a T-shirt in which he puts: Bosal in struggle for employment]] Those are really your policies, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you will understand that I am initiating my intervention by calling on the workers of Bosal, a company based in Sagunt, a company which is the result of reindustrialisation, a company which has received all kinds of aid from the public administration - land, credit, subsidies - but which in 2003 began to decapitalise and now, in 2014, without prior notice, has submitted a creditor's tender and dissolved the company; 222 workers on the street and also repression, because they have not even been allowed to enter the factory or present a viability plan. [[shows a T-shirt in which he puts: Bosal in struggle for employment]] What is the consequence of this situation, if we add to it the sad news that happened before that affected Galmed and Prosidmed companies? The consequence is the death of the region, the death of the Camp de Morvedre. What are the causes of all this, because it does? In our view this is because his Government lacks progressive industrial policy, a policy of support for innovation, because labour reform was the free bar to exploit workers more and because the Government has not been forceful in the demand to return public contributions to these companies, which were intended not to be displaced. Why does this poverty have to do with the royal decree that you present here today? Because possibly and unfortunately within a few months these Bosal workers will only be able to aspire to what offers them as alms - in quotes - their royal decree, 426 euros; by the way, perhaps it could be improved if you accepted it as a bill. For example, we do not understand why it cannot reach people who have no family burden. Nor do we understand how you will comply with the tutorial plan of these workers having cut active policies. So what do we say to him? What do we beg of him? Let them understand that there is a great contradiction. You do not tackle the causes of this situation of unemployment and social exclusion and then come with these patches. By the way, we are not going to vote against it, because how are we going to deny these people 426 euros? But the contradiction exists and they should recognize it. So you'll understand that the answer is the social answer. So, here, next to the minister... [[show the T-shirt again]] [[Speech continues in Catalan]] Minister, the causes of the situation, the causes, and not the patches, the patches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr Cuadra, from the Joint Group, too.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, just over a year ago, the banker Botín, the one to whom the judiciary made a custom suit with the Botín doctrine to justify and bless his fiscal runs for Switzerland, in a start of sincerity commented: we live a fantastic moment, we are getting money everywhere. And the vice president of the government, imbued with this euphoria, in Valladolid, a few months later, surrounded by 500 entrepreneurs, after having also had a vision, came up and commented: there is much joy in the streets. That's what he said, and the 500 entrepreneurs, very cheerful, that's right, applauded to rabies. I think that perhaps this is what all these people today can think of who, in theory, are destined for this aid of 426 eurazos. After receiving them maybe they think like Botín: I'm living a fantastic moment, I'm getting the dough on all sides. Or the vice president: I'm happy, happy, happy, I don't fit in me with joy. They hang by force, which is said. They're said to be help for people who have nothing, but it's a lie. They are aids for the employer, because the receipt of these benefits is compatible with the conclusion of a contract for others, and the employer, the employer, will be able to deduct this from the salary. With this in mind, the approximately EUR 1 billion earmarked for this heading is going to be repaid in its entirety by the employer. A whole chollo, because they will be able to choose, among all the people paid, this precisely; they will be rifared by the bosses, because this will suppose them to put for each one of them by the month 426 euros. These billions are going to be taken by the employer, they are going to be added to the deductions to Social Security and to the treatment of favor it receives in the company tax. And that's what they call a job activation program. Amaiur calls this aid tokomotxo, social shame. The Constitution says, proud of it, that Spain is a social and democratic state of law. After the adoption of the law, the adoption of the penal code more than predictable tomorrow and the last week - the summit, which had never been seen, even in the history of franchising - the shooting of lawyers and lawyers who are carrying the defense of prisoners and prisoners, the democratic and social state makes me laugh, but the social state is to leave altogether. What is most surprising about everything - I finish, Mr President - is this joint photo in a good way: a right-wing, reactionary government, the PP, in the CEOE, an insatiable employer, willing to rendezvous all dishes, and Commissions and UGT. And what a lot of people are wondering is if that picture in a good shot has been given for free or if there's a plate of lentils in the middle.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Quadra. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, lentils are what long-term unemployed people, chronic unemployed people with family burdens, need. This is the pretence, Minister, of this royal decree-law. We are not going to leave enchanted with a negative vote to 270,000 potential or potential beneficiaries of the measure for this year and to the 133,000 expected for next year. We find very optimistic objectives, Minister, and, moreover, insufficient. The number of unemployed, the number of chronically unemployed with family burdens already exceeds one million. [[here discrimination between family burdens and those without family burdens also lacks objective and reasonable justification]] This is the first question on a criterion that creates many doubts, which is the basis for the rule that you have glossed out, Minister. Many of his decisions and many of his reflections are clearly questionable. First, it has invoked collaboration and consensus with the Autonomous Communities. That's not true, Minister. I have here the minutes of the sectoral conference where it was negotiated with the autonomous communities - we are going to use that euphemistic expression, it negotiated with the autonomous communities, when they were practically imposed the content of the royal decree-law previously agreed on that same morning with the trade union organizations - and I know that some autonomous communities expressed doubts, others, reproaches and others expressed to him on the basis, in the opinion of our group, that the content of this rule was contradicting his competence in the matter of active employment policies and the implementation of State labour legislation. First of all, it was not so much the consensus with the Autonomous Communities as you say. As far as union consensus is concerned, Minister, you have agreed to this rule with two unions and one business organization. The three have the status of greater union representativeness, but it is that in the Spanish State there are more organizations that hold this legal notion of greater union representation, which are not state-level but comply with the requirements of the Organic Law on Freedom of Association in order to hold this notion and to be able to consent and must be called to this type of consensus by overcoming in the last trade union elections 15% of the total number of elected trade union representatives and exceeding the number of 1,500. I am referring to unions such as ELA and LAB, the Interunion Galega and others that are never called to consensus of this nature. Then, neither is absolute consensus, consultation with trade union organizations. What is insufficient, Madam Minister, with regard to the problems of unemployment, is the substance of the matter that we are discussing. There is a report approved by Oxfam, which you will know perfectly well, which believes that in 2016 1% of the population will have more wealth than the remaining 99%. This is what is causing the problem of unemployment, this is the substratum, the brutal unequal manifestation of wealth. Already affirmed an important well-known character of the U.S. Supreme Court, during the great depression, Don Louis Brandeis, appointed by President Wilson, the following: We can have democracy or we can have wealth concentrated in few hands, but not both at a time. That is true, Minister, and here we must also reproach you for your lack of courage and ambition regarding the measure you are proposing. If this benefit, the legal nature of which is impossible to discern from a reading and exegesis of the rule, if this aid for the promotion or recreation of the employment of long-term chronic unemployed and with family burdens is a benefit whose nature is of Social Security, and thus appears to be deduced from the reading of some of the precepts of the rule, it should be universal and should affect all unemployed persons, chronic unemployed persons, non-chronic persons, those who have family burdens and those who do not have family burdens, because this is what is mandated by article 41 of the Constitution in relation to benefits whose legal nature is that of social security benefits. No, you are content, assuming you achieve it, which is very doubtful, with reaching protection in two years of 400,000 chronic unemployed with family burdens. That's a lot more. Nor do I finish to understand, because this is an impossible economic metaphysics - the illustrious economists in this House may be able to illustrate - how it is possible that employment in the Spanish state is growing in recent quarters rather than gross domestic product. I do not know how it handles the figures presented to us in the memory, but how it can be that in the last quarter employment has allegedly grown by 1.76 % and gross domestic product by 1.3%, especially with a regulation conducive to dismissal, which not of employability but of otherwise, of unemployment, through the decausalization of the causes of dismissal and the reduction of it. You should explain it to us, Minister. On the other hand, are we facing a social security benefit or not? Because, look, some of the precepts of the norm set out the following. The procedure for the refund of aid unduly received shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 227 of the Consolidated Text of the General Law on Social Security. First statement of this royal decree-law. It seems that we are facing a social security benefit, Minister. Is that right or not? I'm reading you the royal decree-law, minister, I'm not reading you another rule, section 5.6 of the royal decree-law. [[Rumors]] Article 9.1: The financing of this financial aid shall be included in the action to protect against unemployment and shall be carried out from the budget of the State public employment service. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u63	I'm sorry, Mr. Olabarría. Please, I beg your silence. The ones who are talking about getting out. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u64	Thank you very much for your protection, Mr President. Are we facing a Social Security benefit or are we not facing a Social Security benefit, Minister? Finally, the second additional provision states that this aid will be granted on the same terms as for unemployment benefits. Identify well the nature of the benefit, because if it is social security, the universality component is a constitutional imperative, and if it is not in breach of the Constitution, if it does not affect all the unemployed who - by the way, it has already been said by other spokespersons who have preceded me in the use of the word - are in the lowest situation of protection of unemployment in history, 57% of the unemployed only get some kind of unemployment benefit or subsidy, Minister. What happens is that we may not have a social security benefit. I could share that view that this is a sensitive matter, to which you have not referred, but which causes legal uncertainty above all for the beneficiaries, who will not know to whom to claim the refusal to aid, if any, the casualties that may occur or any disruption of their rights. This is not a social security benefit, but we are faced with active employment policies, Minister. What do you think we are facing with active employment policies? The mere analysis of the Royal Decree 1441/2010, by which active employment policies were transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. What you have commented. Firstly, the compatibility between a reduced wage to the limit of this income that is articulated and equals 80% of the Iprem. This cannot happen with a Social Security benefit, a Social Security benefit cannot be compatible with an income of these characteristics. Then it is clear that we are not faced with a benefit whose nature is social security, if you can reduce the employer's remuneration, in breach of the obligation of full payment of your remuneration, up to the amount of 80% of the Iprem, of the aid that you are establishing. Secondly - another contradiction which believes that we are faced with an active employment policy, a manifestation of active employment policies - the exceptional, absolutely exceptional possibility of unifying, by means of reserves under exclusive management, by the State administration, measures such as these promoting employment, Minister, is expressly exempted in Royal Decree 1441/2010, of transferring competence in the field of active employment policies to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And this is what you are doing, you are unifying aid for all the Autonomous Communities by establishing or tabulating equal procedures for action for all the Autonomous Communities which, however, ignore their competences in the implementation of the general labour legislation of the State and ignore their competences in the promotion of their own economic activity, which is their own, exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, and also ignore, lastly, their competences in the field of active employment policies. Even the mere reference to the exemption of quotas as a promotional measure contained in this royal decree-law is also not possible in relation to social security benefits. Then this also believes that we are faced with active employment measures or policies or acts linked to so-called active employment policies with economic aid which is not known to what extent you or why you have declared it incompatible with other economic aid provided for in some autonomous communities, such as the Basque Community, for example. I am referring to income guarantee income, which are dedicated to combating social exclusion...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u65	Mr. Olabarría, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u66	I'm done, Mr. President. For this reason, Minister, the invocations you have made to the consensus, the invocations you have made to the collaboration with other autonomous communities and the invocations you are making above all or the regulation you are committing perverting the nature of the autonomous competences, as they are conceived under the principle of device enshrined in the Constitution, is a cause for concern. And it's not the first time, it's already happened to the Prep, Minister. You cannot subordinate autonomous powers to state powers when the powers are clearly attributed to the autonomous communities and above all you cannot supervise them, cannot examine them, cannot subject them or subject them to guardianship or control of any kind. That has never happened in this House. That happens in his ministry...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u67	Mr. Olabarría, you have to finish necessarily.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u68	... because when you act or you act in your ministry in concert with some trade union organizations, which surely have an ideological structure as Jacobin as that of your own ministry, these things can happen. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. My group welcomes various aspects of the new aid to the unemployed which are introduced into this new royal decree. Firstly, we welcome the fact that it has been achieved through the social dialogue that behind this aid there is an agreement between business organisations, trade unions, something to be valued and that has not been very frequent in this legislature. A second issue that we welcome is the very creation of this programme. We have long been criticizing the fall in the coverage rate in our country, which we have been pointing out that the unemployed were running out of benefits and that expenditure on benefits was falling not so much for job creation as for the duration of the crisis, for the unemployed who were running out of coverage for that benefit period. Therefore, it seems logical for us to see favorably that aid is created that pales, even if it is late and - as I will explain later - that fall in the coverage rate. We also welcome the fact that this aid can be compatible with the receipt of a salary in a contract for others because we are talking about long-term unemployed people and it is a way of reducing their employment, a way of making it cheaper for the employer without them paying less and therefore it is a way of promoting their employment and having a work experience, something especially important for this group of unemployed people. Finally, fourthly, we agree with the philosophy of benefit evaluation that appears here because it is something that we put forward at the beginning of the legislature and that we share, that is, that benefits should be assessed, although we would like us not to share this only in theory because we do not know any recent evaluation of the Preparation Plan, we do not know any recent evaluation of the active income of insertion and we do not know any recent evaluation of active integration policies, including training for employment. This set of considerations will cause us to vote yes to this royal decree. We would find it contradictory to come and point out the need to strengthen the protection of the unemployed and that when there is a new aid that has had social consensus, we will vote negatively. Having said all this, we cannot fail to point out the important shortcomings that this new aid has. This aid is insufficient in the first place because of the number of beneficiaries. It's going to favor about 300,000 people, but we're in a country where the unemployed are 3 million, if we subtract from the EPA unemployed who have some kind of coverage. It is therefore benefiting 10% of the unemployed who have exhausted their benefits: 300,000 as against 3 million. The second insufficiency has to do with the amount. We are talking about a programme - the minister has just pointed out - of about 1 billion euros per semester, 2 billion euros per year, but it is that in the General Budgets of the State for 2015 that we recently approved reduced the expenses in benefits to the unemployed by 4,4 billion euros. Therefore, half of what has been detracted from the budgets is being replenished. In the budgets, two are removed and one is replenished: therefore, the amount is insufficient. And the third insufficiency relates to the duration of the programme. Again an exceptional program for six months and then, what? Again an exceptional programme, extraordinary, with an insufficient duration. Insufficient number of beneficiaries, insufficient amount, insufficient duration. It talks about issues that really sound good to us because again it is something we have pointed out since the beginning of the legislature, which is the need for individualized treatment of the unemployed, with an individual tutor, an individual profile, an itinerary and a follow-up of that profile. We cannot agree more; what we have not just understood is how this is going to be implemented in practice because public employment services are collapsing, there is a huge disproportion between the number of unemployed and the staff in these public employment services. We don't understand how they're going to give that individualized treatment. Active employment policies have been cut by some EUR 3 billion, by almost 40%, i.e. that these resources have not been strengthened but have decreased, and this royal decree does not allocate new resources, but reallocation of existing resources. Therefore, we have not just understood how this individualized treatment will be possible. As in the second royal decree we discussed this afternoon on the autonomic system, we are faced in the House again and again with patches, to plug the drains of the pipes in a building that what is needed are reforms in the structure, reforms in the beams. In the same way as in the case of the autonomous system, my group has been carrying from the beginning of the legislature through proposals for legislation, non-legislative proposals, motions, outlining and designing what we believe is that alternative system that should alter the structure of our labour market. We are concerned about temporary employment, but we did not want to take into account our proposal to end temporary employment, except in very exceptional cases, and that recruitment is indefinite by default. That's right, with proper redundancy payments that are growing progressively. We are concerned about the lack of protection for the unemployed, but our proposals to create a system with a first state step, the active income of insertion open to the under 45, and a second autonomous step in which minimum incomes are more homogeneous between communities have not been taken into account. By the way, these proposals are not our occurrences: the single contract has important academic backing, including Nobel prizes; and the system of double step protection, minimum active income-rent, is defended by institutions such as Caritas. We are concerned about the lack of training, but the measures of our non-law proposal for improving active policies and training have not been implemented despite the fact that many of their points have been implemented. I would like to conclude by referring to the deadlines incorporated in this law because we would like to point out that there is a period of six months from the end of the rest of the benefits until this aid is granted: six months without any kind of coverage. There is an additional period of three months from the request for aid until it is finally received. Six plus three, nine months. And help can be denied by simple administrative silence. Adding to these deadlines we find curiously that the first recipients of this aid will be able to receive it in March or April of this year 2015. This, on the one hand, leads us to the comment that it is very late after three years and a quarter of the legislature. And also to the comment that it is near an election, but in this case we will leave it as a comment because if we really believe that a measure like this is taken by these kinds of considerations, we would have to come to the conclusion that our Government plays with people's pain, plays with people's suffering, and we prefer not to believe it. As I said at the beginning, our vote on this royal decree is going to be yes, it seems to us that there is a new aid to the unemployed in a country with 3 million unemployed without coverage, but it seems to us a late measure, very late in the end of the legislature when the problem has been dragging on for a long time. And it seems to us an insufficient measure: insufficient for coverage - it will only benefit 10% of the 3 million unemployed who have exhausted their benefits - insufficient for the amount - it will only replace half of what has fallen in the 2015 budgets - and insufficient for the duration - because within six months this problem will not have disappeared. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must start by announcing, as it cannot otherwise be, the support of Convergence i Joined this royal decree that sets in motion this programme, this activation for employment. The fact that the actual decree is the result of the agreement with the social partners necessarily supports the content of the agreement; and the fact that, in our case - as far as we know - at the sectoral conference there was an interesting dialogue with the autonomous communities and at least some of the considerations of the Government of the Generalitat were accepted, justify this favourable vote. It is clear that on the substantive issue, which is to try to improve our coverage rate for the unemployed, no matter how small the amount of the benefit is and for a relatively small impact on that problem, we can hardly deny a vote in favour of such a proposal. It is precisely there that my group wants to make a first criticism of it. We have a feeling that we are facing a new patchwork of what is a serious problem in terms of the social consequences of this crisis, which is the significant, significant number of households living without any income: more than 700,000 households in Spain without any income. Moreover, as a second critical consideration, this new programme constitutes a new instrument more than we have set up in the field of social protection: contributory benefit, non-contributory benefit, active income for inclusion, preparation programme, minimum income for inclusion, programmes that can develop the municipalities. It's a new state-wide program. We have long been calling for the need to order and rationalize such a set of instruments that do not end up being effective, that do not guarantee sufficient amounts, that do not cover the entire population without any income. In this sense, as I said at the beginning, appreciating positively what this has meant, the truth is that it is a partial response that perhaps adds a further point of confusion to that set of policy instruments for the protection of people without income. In addition, specifically, the program has some flaws that my group would like to highlight. Firstly, we continue to offer no guarantee to self-employed people who have had to close their businesses, who are one of the great losers of this crisis, especially since the cessation of self-employment has had a perfectly descriptive result which has led to a reform that will not have effect until a certain time. Self-employed persons are also not included in this area of protection. Secondly, the allowance is a measure that seeks to protect the unemployed with dependent family members, but we do not distinguish between the unemployed person who has a child and those who have two, three, four or five children; the amount that is to be received is the same when the needs of these families are to be substantially different. That connects us with one of the concerns that our group has repeatedly expressed with concrete initiatives throughout this legislature, which is the problem of child poverty. This royal decree does not take into account the perspective of children, to try to alleviate child poverty by recognizing the unemployed with the largest number of children a more substantial amount. Finally, the royal decree, both in the statement of reasons for it and in part in the minister's own intervention, places the emphasis on the title of the program: Activation for Employment program. But, of course, the part that has a point of rhetoric rather than reality is precisely activation in employment, among other things - some spokesmen have said it - because this legislature is going to end up being the legislature in which the government has stopped prioritizing active employment policies. Between 2011 and 2015, total expenditure on investment in active employment policies will have decreased by 37.5 %, despite the increase that is actually reflected in the 2015 budgets. It should be borne in mind that the more than €4 billion that the Government saves on unemployment benefits in this budget for 2015 do not become the great opportunity to modernise and equip public employment services with those instruments that would allow that personalized attention contemplated by the Royal Decree to cease to be a mere rhetorical aspiration and to effectively convert the public employment services of the Spanish State into what are the public employment services of the most advanced countries in our environment. There, Minister, let us remember the ratio of job counsellors for unemployed in the Spanish State: in 2010, still with the PSOE government, 450 unemployed per counsellor; in 2012, about 600 unemployed per advisor; in 2014, we moved in similar numbers. Countries around us: France, 50 unemployed per counsellor. Germany or the United Kingdom, 30 unemployed per counsellor; Denmark, the major paradigm of flexicurity policies, 20 advisors. Madam Minister, that is the reality, which is evident in the weakness of public employment services so that this demand for support for the unemployed can occur. The other great paradigm, that of public-private collaboration, has ended up becoming a rhetorical expression because, as far as my group knows, in 2014 not one euro of those envisaged for collaboration with public-private agencies was executed. Given the inadequacy of public services, we propose to mobilize the private sector to work with the public sector, and all this is still not working. In 2015 we increased budgets, but let's see if this policy is finally in place. Therefore, the hard core of the Government's discourse on this issue, which is to activate the unemployed, has more of a discourse than of reality and time will tell us. Finally, as a critical element of the royal decree, the requirements that are introduced to allow people to enter the program are very restrictive. There will be people who will need those more than 400 euros who will not be able to access the program. The bottom line is that many of those 700,000 households without any income will continue in this situation. These are critical elements that would justify an effort by the Government to pass this royal decree as a bill. Therefore, Mr President, we would like to ask you to speak in favour of the plenary. It's a necessary measure, it's an indispensable measure. Welcome either because it is also the result of the agreement with the social partners. In our case, we appreciate that effort made at the sectoral conference, but without the resources of public employment services, without job guides, without investment in technology in public employment services, without making public-private collaboration work effectively, there is a risk of being a toast to the sun. The fact that we are once again leaving modern active policies far away from what has been promoted by the countries in our environment is, Minister, once again an outstanding issue, a missed opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. [[Rumors]] I pray, please, silence so that we can hear the speakers. For the Socialist Group, Mr Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we are not going to oppose the validation of this royal decree because, after so many backward races for the rights of Spanish workers, this decree represents a small step forward. Late, insufficient, rachytic, torn out by the unions, with clear electoral will, from a pitiful scar, but we will not reject it because if this scar plan that we are having to validate today serves at least to alleviate the situation of a single Spanish family, it already deserves the effort. Now, minister, the complacent, even triumphalist speech with which you have presented this decree, in my opinion, is to be ashamed, believe me. Do you really understand that you can breastfeed the unemployed in this country after reducing public coverage from 70 to 57% of the unemployed registered in three years, when seven out of ten EPA unemployed have no protection at all? Do you really believe that it is legitimate to presume to spend just over EUR 800 million on this plan when you have stopped spending up to EUR 5 billion of the public benefit budget for unemployed people in the 2014 financial year and when you have just approved another cut of EUR 5 billion in the 2015 budget? We understand you don't. Are you not ashamed to assume today of commitment to active employment policies? He has told us that this is the most important part of his plan, when he has cut up to 36% of the resources earmarked for this purpose since 2011, more than 3 billion cuts. Doesn't it really make you blush to make these self-bomb speeches with the most unfortunate service sheet that a minister of employment has presented in this House? Anyway! You said last Friday from the Council of Ministers' table that your government is an employment machine; so, as such, an employment machine. But that's not true, Minister. Not all the fanfare in the world will be able to hide that you have 500,000 more unemployed today than when you arrived at the government, according to the latest EPA, that there are 900,000 unemployed longer than very long, that more than nine out of ten contracts signed are temporary and precarious, that the average duration of contracts in 2014 was only fifty-four days, that they have reduced wages to the levels of thirty years ago and that more than 3 million unemployed EPAs lack public benefit. There are 730.00 households with no income. Do you really believe that you are in a position to boast of something? No, minister, you are not for presumptions, you are to apologize to each of the 300,000 unemployed who have left without public help, month by month, during the year 2014 regarding the previous year, to apologize to each and every one of them; for that you are here today. It brings us the validation of a decree five months before an election; a decree to invest just over 800 million in very limited aid to our unemployed and you want congratulations. In 2011, Minister, in the midst of a crisis, without falling oil prices, without the gift of the low risk premium, without a cooperating European Central Bank, the budget for unemployment benefits reached €32 billion, €32 billion in 2011. By 2015, you have decided to cut that budget by 7 billion to 25 billion, almost 23% less, and now you want our applause to recover just 800 of that 5 billion? Madam Minister, you are not going to have our applause. This royal decree has been good for you to deal with the social agents - this yes, minister - five months after the elections and we celebrate it, we always celebrate the exercise of social dialogue, but the history of your laws, your decrees and your rules, minister, is indeed another over these three years and I think it deserves a global assessment to be fair. Law 3/2012 abolished the right of replacement of benefits after employment reduction files without agreement with trade unions. The Royal Decree 20/2012 reduced the amount of the unemployment benefit from the sixth month and eliminated the benefits for over forty-five and fifty-two years without agreement with the unions. In Royal Decree 5/2013, the beneficiaries of the allowance for over fifty-five years old without agreement with the trade unions were reduced and in Royal Decree 1/2013, young people and long-term unemployed were eliminated from the Preparation without agreement with the trade unions. Three years of cuts and door-to-doors to social workers and now, five months after the elections, a photo is taken with a rachytic and scarring plan. Do you really want us to celebrate it with confetti, Minister? You have passed as the horse of Atila for the rights of the workers of this country and what you deserve for it is not our celebration, but our reproach and that is what you will have, Minister. With your speech on active policies you reach absolute sarcasm; not rhetoric, Mr Campuzano, sarcasm. They try to explain the goodness of their commitment to improving the employability of the unemployed when they have reduced the resources earmarked for this purpose by more than 36%, from 8 billion to 5 billion euros. They aim to improve active employment policies by €3 billion less. Do you think we don't read our figures? More individualized itineraries, Minister? More personalized guidance? How? But if nothing else came to the government, you fired 3,000 professional guidance workers from public employment services! Who are you trying to fool? Its budget for the network of local employment technicians has increased from EUR 109 million to EUR 130,000. All budget items for direct assistance to the unemployed have fallen from 841 million to 401 million. They've fallen in half, Minister. This is their commitment to active employment policies, exactly half that three years ago with socialist government, propaganda aside. You constantly disqualify the previous governments and I am not here to defend them. I am here to defend the unemployed and the workers of this country, but the socialist governments believed in the Constitution, Minister. They were not only involved; they believed that article 41 of the Constitution, which guarantees fair benefits to the unemployed, should be complied with. That is why in 2009, in the midst of the crisis, unemployment benefits were not reduced, but increased by 25% in expenditure and 33% in the number of beneficiaries. The coverage then reached 80% of the registered unemployed and you have dropped it to 57%; from almost 80% to 57%. That is the difference, Minister, between bragging about the Constitution and fulfilling it in defence of the rights of the Spaniards. That's the difference between you and us. I reiterate to you that this plan that you bring today for validation is late and insufficient. It is insufficient in the number of beneficiaries. They say 400,000; we don't believe it, but they're definitely going to be much less than the nearly 4 million unemployed EPA without any benefit we have in Spain. Sure. The conditions that have put the unemployed in order to access this minimum aid are very harsh, and they contrast sharply - it has been said here - with the advantages that they offer to entrepreneurs. In fact, by making the benefit compatible with self-employment... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u75	I'm sorry, Mr. Simancas. The speaker cannot be heard, it is impossible. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u76	It said, ladies and gentlemen, that the conditions are harsh for the unemployed and advantageous for the entrepreneurs. By making the benefit compatible with work for others, the employer is allowed to save up to 80% of the cost of work; a misery for the unemployed and a collusion for the employer, as always. The number of beneficiaries is insufficient and the amount is insufficient, Minister. 80% of Iprem, but without any increase according to the number of children, despite being sold as an aid to families. He's been told here. Does it equal one son to two, three or four? Madam Minister, the number of beneficiaries is insufficient and the amount is insufficient and is also incompatible with other aid. As if 426 euros were more than enough to keep a family with dignity. You assume social dialogue - that is, five months from the elections - and we wonder whether you will also want to presume debate and parliamentary dialogue and allow, as you have already been asked, the processing of this decree as a bill. We ask you to incorporate some of the advantages that were already present in the proposal that the Socialist Group submitted to this House a few months ago. We planned a benefit as a subjective right for all the long-term unemployed, with family burdens and more than forty-five years old, the most punished for their cuts. The Socialist proposal had no time limit, it was maintained until employment was found. The Socialist proposal adds 80% of the Iprem, supplements according to the family charges: 570 euros for two charges, 708 euros for three charges and 100 euros per child. And the Socialist proposal does not have an unorthodox expenditure, Minister: EUR 5 billion, which is precisely the figure that you stopped spending in 2014 on the budget for unemployment benefits. In conclusion, Madam Minister, we are not going to oppose this little late, scarring and opportunistic step forward, but we are not going to accompany, Madam Minister, your fanfare because there is nothing to celebrate in a country with more unemployment, more exploitation and more labour poverty than three years ago. And we're going to demand the processing of this decree as a bill to turn this plan into more than a scarring grace at the door of an election campaign. The country is not for celebrations for your management, Minister, but rather for the reprobations that await you at the next session. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. Mrs Álvarez-Arenas has the floor for the People's Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to express a moderate satisfaction - why are we not going to say this? because this is not an overflowing joy, as Mr Simancas said, but rather a moderate satisfaction - and to congratulate not only the Government, not only the Minister of Employment, but also all the social partners and the autonomous communities for this responsible agreement that they adopted for the Employment Activation Plan, dated 15 December last year. Ladies and gentlemen, economic developments - no one denies it anymore, and those who deny it are really blind or do not want to see it - can have different valuations, but it is clear that the recovery is coming to stay: five quarters of GDP growth after twenty quarters of negative growth; forecasts of growth above the macroeconomic tables themselves; for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, with this growth that has taken place in 2014, beginning and consolidated in this year, there is job creation, more than 400,000 new members of Social Security and more than half a million fewer people in unemployment. This is an unquestionable reality and therefore denying it - I insist - is denying a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, at some points in the crisis, unemployment increased by 83 % per year, and at the moment unemployment is reduced by 8.7% per year, which are completely different parameters. Mr Simancas, you speak of shame to the Minister and that forgiveness should be sought, but here the only ones who have to apologize are you, because you have left Spain on the verge of bankruptcy and the Spaniards on the verge of misery, your Government has generated more than 3.5 million unemployed in the last parliamentary term. [[Applauds]] Mr. Simancas, you were engaged in other things, but some of us were already here in these tasks. You cannot come to say this with that anger to the minister, because already all the Spaniards - not the voters of the People's Party, all the Spaniards - know that the Socialist Party is synonymous with unemployment and the People's Party is synonymous with seriousness, rigour and job creation. This is something that is demonstrated in the history of Spain, in the history of governments, and each has to bear its own consequences. Mr Coscubiela spoke here about our policies, and it is true, the result of the policies of this government, that we are faced with 400,000 more members of Social Security. You were talking about the year 2012, Mr. Coscubala. What was the situation in 2012, as a result of Spain's bankruptcy? A situation in which the systematic question was when the rescue was to take place. And it did not happen, because if it had happened, if this government with its responsibility and its policies had not avoided it, the benefits would probably have disappeared, pensions would have been reduced by 50%, as has happened in other countries. I'm not making a fuss, I'm demonstrating things that have already happened. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic, let us be moderately optimistic about the situation we have at the moment in front of what we had just a few months ago. Indeed, the most affected are the long-term unemployed, accounting for 60%, and among them those over 45 years of age with family burdens; for them this activation programme for employment is directed and therefore the agreement reached between the ministry and the social partners is of greater value. The Minister has already said - I will not repeat this - that there are more than 400,000 beneficiaries who can be seen included in this programme, which is also going to be compatible with a job that I honestly cannot understand being criticized here. As the Minister said very well, even the social partners themselves were talking about the importance of complicity between employers and workers to encourage employment and employability. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this programme is going to have a virtuality that we have discussed a lot here, which is that of a personalized itinerary to accompany the training and job integration of these workers. How many times have you requested and asked for these personalized itineraries, a tutor who accompanied the unemployed? That is in this programme, that will be evaluated and monitored by the autonomous communities at the sectoral conference and by the social actors in the follow-up programme of this plan, as well as in the evaluation, which will be done. It is very curious that when for the first time a royal decree is established that includes the evaluation - it is not said, it is included in the royal decree -, there are those who ask - not even when it is going to end, three months before the end - that it is done every three months. But where are the assessments you make in the EREs in Andalusia? You're ruling, Mr. Coscubala, don't put yourself here so great and then it turns out that there you don't even look at a little bit of what's going on. I don't think it's serious at all. You lose all sorts of credibility with that kind of performance. And they lose it the same when they talk about active policies. Of course this is an active policy measure! Of course, this is in line with the demands of the European Union and was in the Spanish programme, in the reform programme and in the employment programme presented by the Kingdom of Spain! Of course this has to do with active policies! And of course in this exercise there have been an increase of 16,8, and if we talk in addition to the resources transferred to autonomous communities it reaches 25! Of course I do! Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked many times here about how active policies were increased by 20 and 30 % and the unemployed doubled. Mr. Simancas, but where is that way of asking forgiveness that you ask of others? But if you spent, spent and spent, and brought a PlanE that spent 13 billion, thrown into the trash, and no jobs were generated, then unemployment was generated. For God's sake! Can you, at least, make self-criticism and acknowledge that a positive path is now being taken? We are not saying that it is the end of the journey, but the beginning of the journey. That's the important thing. We are at the beginning of a path that goes in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to insist on something that is very important. First, in the change of the situation in which we find ourselves, thanks to the reforms that this Government has made and to the efforts of the Spanish society as a whole, which have allowed a radical change in the economic and employment situation. We have moved from recession to recovery, from negative growth to forecasting a 2% increase in GDP and, in addition, to sustainability over time. Today, the International Monetary Fund, ladies and gentlemen, has said that only Spain and the United States among the world economies will have a growth forecast. It's not that this is to say that it's all done, it's simply to restate that what we're doing is right for the benefit of Spanish society as a whole. We have moved from a massive destruction of employment to the containment of layoffs, which was the goal of labour reform, and the creation of 400,000 new members of Social Security. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has ceased to be the problem of starting to be a benchmark in the solution, and it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this programme will help to make this happen to the most vulnerable people, to the people who need it most. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one question that is really important. I was in the presentation that was made of this program and I remember words from the secretary of Workers' Commissions and of Cándido Mendez, of UGT, who said very sensible words. Cándido Méndez said something I pointed at on my iPad: Every 100,000 people entering this program can be a 1% increase in coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the combination of active policies with passive policies, this is precisely what the European Union is asking us to do. And I also remember perfectly well that the Secretary General of the Workers' Commissions said that this was one of the programs they were working with the Government, that it was a program designed for people and that it was not an aid or a subsidy, that it was a plan to introduce people into employability and employment. That is the objective, and neither says the Government nor does this parliamentary group, which subscribes to it, said the two secretary-generals of the trade unions on the day this agreement was signed, on 15 December, in Moncloa, with the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done, without a doubt, and what has been achieved so far must - as I have said - encourage us to continue working in the same direction, set from the zero minute of the start of the legislature: to achieve economic growth and that economic growth generates job creation. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, this is the best social policy. It is the only social policy that allows us to maintain and improve the public services that Spain has always been proud of and continues to be proud of: health, education and dependence. Only with job creation will we be able to maintain them and improve them. We will therefore continue to work to ensure that recovery and well-being reach as many people as possible and, of course, the most vulnerable, as is the case with this House this afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas. In a few minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u79	Prior to the vote, we will take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Ignacio Uriarte Ayala, I ask Don Juan Vicente Pérez Aras if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u80	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u81	In place of Don Valeriano Gómez Sánchez, I ask Doña Lucila Corral Ruiz if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u82	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u83	In place of Don Alfonso Guerra González, I ask Silvia Oñate Moya if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u84	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u85	In place of Don Luis Tudanca Fernández, I ask Dona María del Mar Arnaiz García if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u86	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u87	Don Juan Vicente Pérez Aras, doña Lucila Corral Ruiz, doña Silvia Oñate Moya and doña María del Mar Arnaiz García have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to pay tribute on behalf of all to Mr Cándido Reguera, who died in Lanzarote last Friday. He was a national deputy of the People's Group at this Congress from 2000 to 2010. Many of us remember his good work, his dedication to the Canary Islands and, above all, his love for the island of Lanzarote. Rest in peace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u88	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, which regulates the activation programme for employment. The Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor for her presentation and defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you this afternoon to present this Royal Decree 16/2014, for its validation by this House, which regulates the activation programme for employment; a programme which - I would like to acknowledge - is the result of the joint work and the continuous and responsible dialogue with the Autonomous Communities and, in particular, with the social partners. It is proof that collaboration is the best answer to address one of the problems that worries the Spaniards most, such as unemployment, especially when it comes to those who take longer because they are unemployed for a long time and also have family responsibilities. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, continues to consolidate its recovery. We started 2015 with economic growth, with prospects to increase it, thinking about what happened in 2014, and also with good prospects for job creation. Growth is therefore undoubtedly translating into employment opportunities. Today in our country with growth below 2%, net employment is being created for the first time in our economic history. This is attested to by the last two labour force surveys which show that job creation exceeds more than half a million jobs. If we take into account the registered unemployment and social security membership data for 2014, for the first time in seven years of crisis, the unemployment rate dropped by more than 350,000 people and rose by more than 417,000. We are therefore in the right direction, growing and creating employment opportunities. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a long way to go, we have many opportunities to find for those billions of Spaniards who do not yet have a job. We cannot stop working, adding will with the social partners, also with the autonomous communities, in favour of employment, so that those who do not yet have a job can find it as soon as possible. We are therefore in the right direction but we also continue to work for these employment opportunities. We have to be closer, if any, to those who have the most difficulty, to those who have the least opportunity because they are more vulnerable when they return to the labour market. This was also reflected in President Rajoy's July agreement in Moncloa with the social partners, that proposal agreement for tripartite negotiations and to strengthen economic growth and employment. In that agreement, there was a clear will on the part of everyone, the social partners and the Government, to promote a sincere dialogue in various areas, from economic policy at European level, the industrial agenda and fiscal and budgetary policy in our country, to concrete measures in the field of the labour market, which are, if you want, the most important part of that agreement with the President of the Government, of that tripartite agreement last July. Among the measures we have put in place, which we are working together, this extraordinary programme of activation for employment, defined together - as I said - with the social partners and approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 December, which I am presenting today for validation. It is a programme whose fundamental characteristic is the result of this collaboration of all, autonomous communities, which are inseparable companions every time we move forward, which we want to move forward in terms of activation for employment. We have also done so in other projects, such as the single employment and self-employment portal, with more than 80,000 vacancies, a single employment portal for the first time in our country; the implementation in Spain of the national youth guarantee system, which is undoubtedly supported by this solidarity and shared effort between the Government and autonomous communities. We are contributing to public-private collaboration, an axis of work, promoting work intermediation. In all these cases are autonomy, the autonomous authorities are the competent authorities in much of what will be the development of the activation programme. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank again all the support, all the commitment and all the effort and participation of each and every one of the autonomous communities of Spain. As you are well aware, the programme started on 15 January and the different potential beneficiaries can be requested to join until 15 April 2016. It has a key and fundamental objective, which is to activate those people who have more time in unemployment, who are unemployed for a long time, and who have family members in charge. It is aimed at those unemployed who have had the most time in unemployment, who have had family responsibilities and who have exhausted all their protection tools for more than six months, all the protection afforded to them by unemployment benefits and subsidies in the field of employment, which is precisely why they are faced with a special difficulty in returning to the labour market. According to data from the registers of the public employment services, more than 400,000 people throughout the national territory are currently potential beneficiaries of this programme. The programme aims to promote the job recovery of this group of unemployed people through a more personalized and modern design, through personalized integration itineraries, adjusted to their professional profiles to help them in this transition to employment. One of the main developments I want to highlight this afternoon is that these beneficiaries will have for the first time a personal guardian who will assign to them public employment services, as has been done in other countries of the European environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u90	First, the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 15/2014 of 19 December 2014 amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands is put to the vote. Three votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 327 votes in favour, 309 votes in favour, 312 votes against, 10 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u91	It's validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a draft law by the urgency procedure. We shall put it to the vote. Two votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 plus 2 telematics votes, 327; in favour, 40; against 279 plus 2 telematics votes, 281; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u92	It will not be dealt with as a bill. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 17/2014, OF 26 DECEMBER, OF MEASURES OF FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OF THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND LOCAL AND OTHER ENTITIES OF ECONOMIC CHARACTER. [[File number 130/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u93	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 17/2014 of 26 December of financial sustainability measures of the autonomous communities and local and other economic entities. There have been three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 plus 3 telematics votes, 328; 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179; 20; Abstentions 128 plus 1 telematics vote, 129.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u94	It's validated. It will now be voted on as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Three votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 plus 3 telematic votes, 328; 149 plus 1 telematic vote, 150; 176 plus 2 telematic votes, 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u95	It will not be treated as a bill. - REAL LAW 16/2014 OF 19 DECEMBER, RELATING TO THE WORK PROGRAMME FOR EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u96	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, regulating the Employment Activation Programme. There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 plus 3 telematics votes, 328; for 296 plus 3 telematics votes, 299; against, 9; abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u97	It's validated. Let us now submit the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure. There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 325 plus 3 telematics votes, 328; in favour, 148 plus 1 telematics vote, 149; against, 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-01-20-CD150120.u98	It will not be treated as a bill. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
